One of the Few Unwatchable Vincent Price Films	Normally , I find Vincent Price comforting . He's an old friend that never lets me down . Sure some of the movies he's been in were stinkers but they were always watchable . This film is the exception to the rule and along with Shock , is a film so bad that even Vincent Price can't save itIn theory this film is based on the old play of the same name that was a tent pole of the " old Dark House " genre of plays popular in the 20's and 30's . The original play was also the source of two earlier and better screen versions . Having recently watched both earlier versions prior to watching this film I'm left wondering if it wouldn't have been easier to just make something up rather than pay royalties for a source that the filmmakers were going to ignore anyway . This film looks like it was made for TV . Worse , it looks like it was made for the bad TV channel , which people are forced to watch for some terrible crime . There is nothing resembling direction so even the normally good actors like Price and Agnes Moorehead seem to have decided not to show up and phoned in their performances . The script is terrible and takes a perfectly good story and adds all sorts of unremarkable twists . Not worth your time , even to review or talk bad about . Forget it and move on to something else .
One of the worst acted films I've ever seen ( and the film making isn't much better either )	I'm not sure what to say about this film that will be helpful to anyone who wants to know about it . Frankly the only thing that comes to mind is don't . The story of two friends who's loyalty is tested when a woman comes between them is painful to watch . I've seen enough movies to know when there is a problem beyond the script , in this case its mainly the acting which is best categorized as bad . Its a combination of poor acting choices , characters posturing to look tough mixed with what can only be described in an overly generous mood as non-acting . Characters speak as if they are rehearsing rather than performing . Even Robert Z'Dar , of Maniac Cop fame , an actor you can always count on for a good performance comes across as phoning it in from three towns away . Its all very laughable . Technically this film isn't much better . The sets feel like they were left over from a bad high school music video . The camera work seems more like the point and shoot variety . My guess is that this was made for almost no money and it shows . ( An aside - while watching this movie I was struck by one thought over and over again , which might explain why the film is the way it is , and that is I'm not certain that this film was ever intended for an English language market . There is something about it that makes me think that this was made to be shipped over seas and dubbed in to Thai or Korean or Chinese . If thats the case I's suggest trying to find an import of this dubbed into a foreign language and subtitled back into English . - It's probably going to play better ) I really can't recommend this film to anyone unless they are trying to see every film with martial arts ever made . To put it another way I paid 99 cents for the DVD of this film and I feel ripped off .
One of the worst Vincent Price movies	This isn't going to be a review , rather its simply an expression of displeasure at film that wasted a couple hours of my life . Half way through the first and only time I ever watched this movie I vowed never to watch it again . Several years later I have been true to my word . I have kept the video tape of this movie so that I could know that I always had the choice to watch this if I found that chewing tin foil lost its thrill . So far there have been only two Vincent price films which I found such a waste of time that I never wanted to see them again , this was one and The Bat , was the other . I really don't know why I find this movie so distasteful , but I do . Its simply one of those things that rubbed me the wrong way . I can't recommend it , not can I recommend chewing tin foil , but if you must choose one choose the foil .
One of the worst films of the year	This will be best known for the Ferrari that was crashed when Eddie Griffin was doing promotion . Tale of racing and betting is a poorly made by the numbers that appears to have a director who couldn't see the numbers . Largely a point and shoot affair with a group of actors in it for a paycheck . This is not a good movie , but its not bad enough to be watchable and end up as a some what nothing film isn't worth bothering with no matter how you look at it . Misogynistic , despite the fact one of the leads is a woman , this is a film that was clearly made just to get the producer and director close to pretty girls . Want evidence ? There are long lingering shots of women in next to nothing that serve no purpose other than perhaps to get a rise out of people too afraid to rent a porno or the Sports illustrated swimsuit DVD . Avoid this movie at all costs
Possibly the worst film Peter Cushing ever made	Is this the worst film Peter Cushing ever made ( he seemed to think so ) Anything is possible , But I'd have to see the rest of what he's made to see what beats BLOOD BEAST TERROR a not so nifty movie about a giant killer moth . Yes , a giant killer moth . I can't make this stuff up . . . I wish I could but I wasn't old enough to be taking the drugs required to make this in 1967 . I picked this up as a USED DVD , I stress USED , or barely used , since I don't know if anyone watched this more than once . Its almost that dull that hospitals will use it instead of gas . Its not entirely bad , but it is dull . . . The main problem , and there are many others , is that the makeup is laughable . To say this is a dumb monster is rating it too highly . Think the original Wasp Woman , only worse . Its bad . I was wondering why this wasn't better known until I saw the monster and knew , that was the reason the movie is in the forgotten pile . Even if the monster was decent there is the problem of the film plodding along at an okay rate for about two thirds of it and then getting stupider , things happen to reach an end not because they would . But what else is new as things happen at the start of a scene and then shift in mid-scene , for example the villain is performing a complicated experiment at one point and is interrupted by a knock . . . Peter Cushing arrives and hero and villain simply go off with all this equipment running as if nothing was being done . . . A mess , a real mess .
This Film Just Doesn't Work	Mike Myers is a nice guy , but he's falling into a rut . He has dispensed with the pretense of acting for sleep walking through his roles . While he's not as stupid as Jim Carrey when he's trodding the same ground , he is equally annoying . In the Cat in the Hat , Myers does what he's done before in most of his films of late and that is to be silly in the most annoying manner and voice he can think of . The idea of turning Dr Seuss ' book about the events on a rainy day into a full length feature was not the brightest idea , simply because there isn't enough material to fill the film out to anything approaching 90 minutes . The film makers didn't learn from Grinch which only worked when it dealt with material from the book , unfortunately in the case of the Cat that material is all over the place , the film is mostly new material so it just doesn't work . The film also suffers from the biggest problem with adapting Seuss - his stuff never looks right off the printed page . Its never truly real so you never believe . The film isn't bad , it isn't good , it just is . As the Cat and the kids go through their paces things happen but its completely uninvolving . If you must waste your time seeing this rent it first .
Badly made kidnap story would have been better as a porn film	Watching this tale of a detective from Harlem , who now works in Florida ( hence the title ) I was struck by how much better this film would be if there was some hardcore sex in it . The idea may make me seem like an absolute pig but if you watch this movie for more than five minutes you too will be struck by two thoughts : First - when is the sex going to start because this movie looks and feels like a bad 1970's porn film . Second - when is the sex going to start since this movie is so awful that its probably the only thing the film makers could do to make this movie even remotely interesting . This movie is a turkey . Its cheap , badly filmed , badly acted with awful action and a stupid plot ( its got something to do with the kidnapping of an African Ambassador's wife or daughter or something ) . Its on that fine line between so bad its good and so bad its bad and it wobbles back and forth across it minute by minute . If you're a true bad movie lover see it . If you're any other type of movie lover stay away because there is no sex to spice things up .
Can't we go into negative ratings ?	I liked the trailers , I hoped for the best and then sat in dumbstruck horror as one of the worst films ever made ( as in so bad its painful to watch bad ) unspooled before my eyes . Rumor has it that the film makers know a thing about movie making . I know the cast does , but what wanders across the screen looks like the dailies of a really bad TV commercial put together by someone with no sense of film structure . I'm told that this has something to do with two assassins fighting each other after some one is kidnapped , but I'm not certain since things just sort of happen for no real reason . I would like to think that this movie was a big joke on the movie going public but no one would want to spend what it cost to make this movie as a joke , especially when there was no hope of ever getting the money back in ten thousand life times . A void unless your eyes need to experience cinematic blunt force trauma applied to them .
Worst film by a director of any standing ever	This is nothing more than a cheap ass home movie done by a director who should have known better . Its not that there is anything wrong with this being made but the look and feel of it is that of a goof made among friends over a weekend for their own amusement . Regrettably someone though the rest of the world would find it equally enjoyable and released it on an unsuspecting world . The plot has Roderick Usher ending up in a asylum for murder where goth and allegedly racy things are going on . There music and jokes and tasteless stuff . Mostly there is an undying urge to turn the DVD off and put on one of Ken Russell's other films . . . anyone of them . I'm a Ken Russell fan . I've always liked that fact that no matter what he did there was always something interesting to look at or see somewhere in the movie . Here there is nothing . Its a complete waste of time . Oh how one of the cinema's great directors has fallen . . . .
Grabage	the Day the Earth Froze is one of the worst pieces of cinematic garbage I've ever seen . Don't get me wrong I like the fantasies of director Aleksandr Ptushko . I Love The Sword and the Dragon , I like the Magic Voyage of Sinbad and some of his Ruslan and Ludmila is gorgeous . His films are cinematic storybooks and the ethereal storybook quality that Ptushko puts into his work is here in spades . The plot is basically the tale of a witch causing the world to freeze but it is so stoically told and acted in the stick up the back manner that I wanted to slit my wrists rather than finish it . I'm certain that part of the problem is that the American version is missing a third of the film , but allowing for that its a horrible piece with all of Ptushko's worst mannerisms in full view .
Real Bad	It was bound to happen , the TV reality craze bled into the film industry , but did it have to be so bad ? Shot in ten days then rushed into theaters a few weeks later it was then rushed into video stores where it destroyed countless more minds , this film has to have the fastest turn around time on record . Hey I've actually said something nice about it . . . amazing . The premise is that a bunch of hand picked jerks are flown to Mexico for spring break and we get to watch them behave badly . I'm sure it sounded good on paper but the people we are given to watch are such awful people we don't care . Any promised titillation and truly over the top behavior isn't there so this comes across as rather tame considering the promises the film makers made . I kept watching this wondering why I was watching it since I hated the people and their behavior . Finally after a just over half an hour of this non-event I turned it off . I suggest that you do better than I did and never turn it on .
Avoid at All Costs	Three years after the events in the first film the Japanese government sends a class of kids out to kill the survivors of the last game who have now become terrorists . Everything I've read on this movie says that people either really love this or really hate it . Personally , I don't think one can hate this film enough . This film is a almost a complete mess . Yes the battle scenes are well done in a Spielbergian sort of way , but the rest of the film makes no real sense . I would like to say that the director took the vision for the film to his grave , except that his son , who wrote the script finished it for him . Would someone explain something for me , why does the daughter of the character played by Takeshi Kitano in the first film , and who chose to join the war , think that running around killing kids will make her understand why her father failed to love her ? It makes no sense . Neither does much of what goes on . This film demands to be intentionally and forcefully ignored . Frankly any attention paid to it , including burning the negative , cutting every frame to pieces is merely allowing it to think it has a right to exist . because you can't go negative .
Awful	Awful anime . The animation is even more limited than the stuff Rankin Bass would turn out years later . Its dubbed by Chuck McCann and friends for the Hal Roach Studios and its awful . I can't tell if the source was bad or the English dub , but its bad . Ten minutes and I was screaming , " no no no " while reaching for a bottle of rat poison . . . for the cartoon rat on screen , not me . I can't believe I've had this compared to the films of Disney , I don't think Disney ever made a movie this bad , or if they did they certainly didn't release it for the public to see . Not worth the time effort or money to see it . Avoid it if at all possible
One of the worst	Italian rip off of Mandingo and The Drum is a badly dubbed Italian life on the plantation yarn . Lots of people who don't look like they belong in the American South wear badly tailored costumes and wander around locations that look nothing like the American south . The plot has something about the romance between a rich man and a certain young woman , the jealousy that ensues and the tragedy that follows . The film promises hot steamy sex and lots of twisted violence but nothing ever really comes of any of it , its all tease . Its all probably racially insensitive , I couldn't notice since its artistically bankrupt . The final twist is at best laughable . A major turkey .
One of the worst . . . and not in a good way	Also known as " Sesso " or " Sexual Inadequacies " ( the title on the Something Weird print ) It begins with the birth of a baby and goes down hill from there . OH GOD THIS IS BAD Rarely do I give up five minutes into a film , but this is one of those movies . Its suppose to be a look at sex through the deviants , what it is is a lot of stilted footage and deep meaningful narration that is suppose to mean something but doesn't . Hoping against hope I started to click the chapter button and was forced to look at bad Italian actors doing bad acting . Somewhere around the voyeurs I gave up and went to bang my head against the wall . I couldn't find one hard enough so I put on the cooking channel ( no of course I didn't I just hit myself over the head repeatedly with a large fish ) This is one of those movies that looks like it should be good but when you start to watch it you wonder what in the hell is going on . Irreversible didn't mess with my head this much . Awful awful awful . A time killer . a soul drainer . and not in a good way .
Surely on the list of all time bad bad ( unfun ) movies	This is the brief story of a bunch of male space explorers looking for women to impregnate before they are no longer able to have children . Somehow they end up on a planet where they are captured and chatter as women in latex clothing fight each other and roll around on the floor to really bad music . I can't say more than that because there really isn't much more to it than that . ( There may have been but I stopped caring ) Can we say cheap ? Can we say shot on video badness ? Can we please have an Ed Wood film , or better yet Orgy of the Dead where the women were at least topless ? Could we please have anything perhaps even a large rusted needle to poke out my eyes ? This set bound disaster is billed as being in the style of Barbarella . Say what you will that had a plot , and acting , and something approaching other than a bad TV talk show style set . This is awful . Should you be stupid enough to actually watch this you may want to be warned of the use of about ten or fifteen seconds of hardcore sex appearing during the solarized entrance from the desert to the blue bubble . Its off to one side of the screen and would not be really noticeable except the video effect only partially obscures it and so its the only thing you can really see . I had to go back to see what it was since it seemed out of place . Its not a reason to pick this up , but parents who intend to destroy their children's minds by showing this film to them may be offended , I was bored . Simply one of the worst piles of dog waste ever made .
The worst Tyler Perry film . See the play instead	I'm a Tyler Perry fan . Even when I don't like one of his films I find some spark that makes me certain he's bound for an Oscar . Unfortunately this is the first time I've felt that he's missed the boat and maybe heading for a crash . The plot has an assistant district attorney helping an old friend , now a hooker , in trying to come clean and start over while his fiancé , the DA tries to make sure that never happens . Meanwhile Madea's antics have finally landed her in prison where Madea continues her ways unabated . I like Madea and have always found Perry's portrayal hysterical , but here Perry is awful and is way way way over the top , even when compared to the stage shows . It shows signs of Perry being distracted ( with three movies a year and two TV shows how could he not ) and there is a sense that he was just trying to get to the next thing . He and the some of the cast march through the proceedings as if they were Sherman marching to the sea . Perry's Madea isn't a character rather its a man in a dress saying lines ( Its clear Perry really does want to kill Madea off if he gets the chance ) . It all makes for the worst Tyler Perry film and the first one I can't recommend on any level . Actually cut your losses and get the video of the stage show . instead , That was damn funny and touching . Seriously this is the one Tyler Perry film that just doesn't work .
emperor has no clothes . This film isn't much of anything	This started as part of the double feature feature Grindhouse and it has now been released as a single film . I didn't like it in Grindhouse and seeing it alone I think this is a pretty poor film . The dialog is exactly like rejected dialog from Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction . The most of the dialog serves no real purpose . Granted Tarantino is using it to blur whats going on , but its really just a series of discussions that lead , ultimately , nowhere . There is no deeper meaning to anything thats said . Since there is no " action " for the better part of an hour the dialog has to define the characters , however everyone speaks with the typical Tarantino cadence , think Travolta and Jackson in Pulp fiction on their vocal rhythms , with the result that most of the characters are not well defined The women in the first group all blend together with the exception of Rose McGowan and the " New Yorker " who seems out of place in Austin . Mostly the women stand out because of their hair and skin color . The car crash that takes these women out is spectacular , but only because we see it graphically three or so times with the severed limbs flopping about . Whats worse is that the accident ultimately makes no sense in any level at all , why do it ? There is no reason - even if the ineffectual sheriff tells you why he can't do anything is a scene that belongs in another film . For me I always lose interest in the film after that ( I've seen this and Grindhouse at least 4 times each ) , partly because the film starts over - sort of - with a bunch of kick ass girls - but also Stuntman Mike ceases to be a character that makes sense . There are no revelations about him - not that there needs to be - but his actions , by the car crash and the sheriff's speech implying more , leap so far out of believability that he stopped being menacing but became a joke . The next group of girls-all movie people are clearly outside Mike's league . Their dialog is slightly better than the first group of women but often comes off as shrill because its shouted . Their final confrontation with Mike is , to say the least disappointing . Okay they won't take Mike's nonsense and go after once he messes with them . So what ? There is no real fear on their part when Mike starts up his games so you don't feel any tension . Worse they seem to be enjoying the idea of pay back more than Mike enjoys killing women . I'm not saying this because I feel emasculated , rather because it changes the rules , it changes what we feel into a joke . Worse , he's beaten so easily as to be a paper threat , how can you cheer when Mike was ultimately impotent ? What's worse is the action is poor . The car chase is badly shot and really unexciting . I don't think I've ever seen such a dull chase in an exploitation movie ( and I've seen hundreds ) . I've seen bad chases , stupid chases , every other kind of chase-but nothing this dull . My reaction when I got to the end was well that added up to nothing . Its like bad sex thats stopped before you orgasm , it kind of ruins the whole idea of sex . I don't think Tarantino was making a real movie as much he was making what he thought a film like this should be . Clearly he doesn't know films as well as he thinks he does . ( I mean that literally as well as figuratively since there are times in the Grindhouse version when the film gets splicey and dialog repeats exactly the way a film wouldn't if you chopped out frames . and then repaired it . ) If it was anyone other than Tarantino the film would have been hidden away or burned . Worse , if the film had been made in the 1970's when the films he mentions were made this film would have ended up lost , probably never going to home video-or if not lost then boxed in those 50 movie DVD sets that contain a great deal of crap because no one would ever put the films out except as filler . While I will say that Tarantino borrows too much from old movies , he is a good film maker most of the time . That said , it becoming painfully clear as time goes on that his bag of tricks and his " encyclopedic " film knowledge is beginning to fail him more rapidly . I would say something about him looking too tan and well fed in this film but there are other ways to imply he's lost touch with the hunger he once felt and fed the movies he made . His fans will love him no matter what - but some of us - some who may have even seen more films than him - maybe finding the emperor has no clothes . I'm curious what the future will bring .
The collision of old and new footage is dreadful . Look for the original film before its improvements instead	Godfrey Ho clip job film where new footage of white guys wearing head bands that say " ninja " on them are inter-cut with footage from what looks to be a decent kung fu film . The footage never matches and the resulting story makes no sense . Its a shame that Godfrey Ho has had his clip job films become more readily available to film viewers in the West since most of the films that he's cut up and rearranged were actually pretty good films to begin with . Since its hard to track down the full version of the film people are going to think that the stinkers are the way things really are . As for me I just try to avoid anything by Ho since if I see his name in the credits I know its awful .
How anyone connected with this turkey ever worked again is beyond me	TCM recently ran the legendary EXTRAORDINARY SEAMAN with David Niven Alan Alda and Faye Dunaway , not to mention Mickey Rooney and a few other great character actors . This is a really bad movie , not fun , just bad . The premise has Niven as a dead sea captain haunting a boat until he does a heroic act ( Its WW2 and he's been dead since WW1 ) . He's always in white and constantly drinking and never eats . Eventually he confesses his state to Alda who is a high strung CPA who can't figure out whats wrong with the Captain . Intercut with the funny footage is newsreel material cut mixed with witty lines and odd music . Its almost like MASH in some technical ways ( the camp announcements say relating to the newsreel narration ) but the effect is a stone faced silence . I kept going on with the film to see what was wrong , and its purely the fault of the direction which treats the material too realistically , and Alda who's patented shtick and mannerisms are completely wrong ( think MASH at his silliest ) . How Alda survived this horrible miscasting amazes me , but then weirder things have happened . Not quite one of the all time stinkers that the Medveds once dubbed it in their 50 Worst Films book , but its bad
Better than the last two but not as good as it should have been	George Lucas has finished this latest Star Wars trilogy with what should have been the best of any of them but poor acting , laughable plot twists due in what is actually an okay movie . The problem in part is that Lucas has to get things to where we know they should be so he's been forced to twist events to get there . The sequence where Anakin relents and goes over to the dark side is illogically plotted and I never believed it . The film is littered with moments that made me wonder what Lucas thinking . But sequences like the battle on the lava planet make the film worth seeing . I can't say thats it worth owning , but it was worth seeing once . I just wish that Lucas had made the choice to let someone else write and direct this final film . He's at last given us a story thats worth hearing , unfortunately he's not very good at telling it to us . FYI - I've rated the film as a , its really a six or so . I've done it to counter balance all of the rave reviews since its no where near as good as some feel it is .
One of the worst mysteries ever put on film	Eddie Quillan gives one of his worst performances as Ellery Queen . The plot involves the theft of a rare stamp and the murders that occur in its wake . Quillan , as Queen gets involved with the mystery after he meets the owner when she arrives in New York by boat . The mystery itself is fine . I can even live with the cheapness of the production ( nothing looks real ) . What I can't stand are the performances , no one in this cast with the exception of Frank Pangborn gives anything remotely like a performance . Can't anyone on screen act ? I guess not . The worst offender is Quillan who turns Ellery Queen into an insufferable twit . I wanted to smack him . Charming or disarming he's not . He ruins what could have been an okay bad movie . I hate this movie , I hate it a great deal .
This should have worked . . .	Maybe its the dubbing , but this story of a Greek hero who is at first the key to taking control of Athens and later to beating the invading the Persians , should have worked . Certainly it's the best looking Steve Reeves movie , with some really good action sequences but this movie is awful . If its not the the dubbing then perhaps its the editing and direction which appears to have taken the " lets use every piece of available footage " approach to film construction . Sequences go on and on and on . We Persians invade and we get to see every soldier land in Greece , and we see a boulder crash into a camera . Why couldn't the sequences have been trimmed . It makes things seem last for hours despite it only being 90 minutes long . Another clunker from Reeves .
A movie only people who are too scared to buy a real porno movie would like	A cheap exploitation film about a mothers search for her daughter who has been kidnapped by people who make snuff porno films . The trail leads the mother all over Europe as she searches for her child and we in the audience struggle to stay asleep . This is one of the countless soft-core sleaze films that are made for people who want the excitement of porno with out the stigma or danger of it showing up on their credit card bill . Personally I'd rather have the stigma since those films tend to be more interesting and honest about what we're seeing . This is suppose to be a sexy thriller but its not . Mostly its people talking about things followed by lots of walking from place to place and lead to lead . Periodically through out the film various people get undressed and everything has more than a touch of S & M to the proceedings . The violence and fetish material is of the sort to provoke laughter rather than horror or even excitement , its all so incredibly fake . Worse there is not even enough nudity to keep it interesting . ( Basically par for the course for many of these films ) You'll forgive my lack of details but it simply is a dull boring film that I stayed with to the end hoping for something remotely prurient to occur , but there was nothing . The most interesting thing was the blonde haired villainess with the huge over bite and nose the size of a Buick . I watched her with morbid fascination wondering what she had looked like as a young girl and wondering whether she had had plastic surgery , not the type of things you should be thinking about in a gripping thriller . Avoid .
How low some people will go for a paycheck	Poor battle between Vampires flick . Paycheck job for the names ( Tony Todd , Jason Connery and C Thomas Howell ) this is one of those movies you look at and wonder if anyone was taking it seriously or whether anyone was doing it for more than the money . Okay Tony Todd maybe took thing a bit too seriously ( he's way too intense ) and the cinematographer was very serious about America Olivo's breasts , but other then that this seems to be a joke . . . except its not , or if it is it never signals that it it is . I thought after the opening attack on the feuding couple that we'd have some laughs after that but it never gets funny , at least not intentionally so . Only worth seeing if you have to see every vampire movie ever made .
Trash cinema	The original exploitation classic-though far from enjoyable on almost any level concerning some guys who turn cats into human flesh eating monsters because the cat food they make is made with people is remade with scifi elements added . The cats can't get enough and when the flesh tainted food runs out the cats turn on their owners . Poorly put together on almost every level this is an example of the absolute bottom of the barrel material that used to actually play movie theaters in the early 1970's updated with alien cat and dog races battling for supremacy . Director Ted Mikel is a hack , but is so lovable a person ( I generally like the guy thanks to his smile inducing interviews and commentary tracks ) that you can pretty much excuse the garbage he mostly turned out . Mikels wanted to make films and he didn't care how they turned out so long as he was producing something . More power to him , but I wish he wouldn't subject us to his home movies
Really bad horror film from the Phillipenes	This is a bad film . Its not a good bad movie , its just a bad movie . The plot has something to do with the adult children of a family finding out that their mother hasn't really been dead , rather she was changed into a vampire and had been kept locked up by their father in a secret crypt . I've run across this movie a under a couple of different names and under everyone of them its a turkey . Nothing in this film works . The acting is more like over the top soap opera spoof than any realistic . The aged Grannie who plays the vampire is more laughable than frightening with the result that you may hurt yourself from laughing at it all . for the occasional unintentional laugh , otherwise this is a movie to be avoided at all costs .
Stupid	Stupid , and I do mean stupid , tale of two home school raised social misfits with high IQ's who want to give their comatose dying father a grandchild , but are unable to get any woman to go out with them . Bob Odenkirk should keep this occasionally-very occasionally-funny but incredibly stupid movie off his resume if he ever wants to have sex again since its insulting to pretty much everyone . I don't know who's idea it was to make this movie but its yet another Jerk rip off that goes nowhere new . Yes , some of it is funny-the sky message bit at the end for example , but over all it just doesn't work , probably because the two main characters are clearly so stupid as to be believed . Only worth seeing if you stumble on it
Really bad . Though picking on it with drunk friends might help	Live action version of Dragonball via Taiwan . Evil lord comes to earth to get the seven magic dragon balls . . . er pearls which when brought together will cause a dragon to appear and grant your wish . Lots of action and bad comedy ensue . What can I say that " the best way to watch this film is with lots of drunk but witty friends " doesn't ? I don't know . This is a really bad but funny in the way that really bad movies can be . Come on this is one of the few martial arts films I've ever seen where you actually see the wires . Its a live action cartoon and not so far removed from what I've seen of the show that it makes me fearful for the big budget American version now filming . If you have some drunk friends and feel like picking on a movie see this film . If you're going to see it sober ( like me ) avoid it .
Dull . Really Dull .	I'm going to go the long way round in discussing this movie , so stay with me . I recently had a discussion over lunch about the Japanese comics that are translated for the American audience . Why were some comics brought to America while others , many that the Japanese consider so much better , are left in Japan ? There are of course any number of reasons . As I watched A Complicated Raping Case , I found myself thinking back to that conversation about comics and wondering why , considering all of the good Hong Kong movies yet to reach these shores , were audiences in America and elsewhere subjected to this incredibly dull movie ? Could it be that they had to release something , and since this was already subtitled on the film they decided to dump this snooze inducer ? Or was it simply greed since some people , myself included , will rent pretty much anything . The plot , best as I can tell , concerns the kidnapping of a rich man while he's having sex with his mistress . The police then stumble about trying to find out who did it . There's a tiny bit of violence , some sex ( which seems not really to belong in the film ) and lots of talking and smoking . Its a movie thats made competently but has no forward momentum once the crime occurs . Once the crime happens the movie pretty much stops moving . Yes , there are attempts to understand and explain the whys and wheres of the crime , but mostly its people either sitting or standing and talking about things they probably could show you . A large portion of the film is like this , so the movie quickly becomes boring to the point where you reach for the remote to turn it off - - - which generally is the same moment that some people decide have sex . This sort of , kind of keeps you interested , if for no other reason than its something other than sitting and talking or standing and talking . This ploy works a couple of times until you realize that the people doing it are rather ugly and that its as exciting as the prospect of watching yourself do the deed . ( And I won't even mention that most of the sex takes place in the same room , no matter who's doing it , or where they are suppose to be ) No . I didn't like this movie , nor do I recommend it . While its far from the worst film ever made , it might be in the running for the dullest . Avoid at all costs . No one should be so hard up so as to have to watch this movie .
failed mash up of romantic comedy and low brow humor	Yes , yes it is . Its just so bad its heartbreaking . Its as if two movies , a sweet romantic comedy was grafted onto a low brow comedy with the effect being it just awful . I mean that not because I think this should have been a sweet romantic comedy , rather that its so bad that not even the low brow humor works . Ben Stiller kind of sort of almost pulls it off , but the shifting of tone just derails the whole thing . ( Coming from me , a man who normally hates Ben Stiller this is high praise . ) Then again any film that makes Jerry Stiller just vulgar instead of vulgar but funny isn't to be bothered with .
The director should stick to comics	Frank Miller directs an adaptation of Will Eisner's " classic " character for the big screen . What can I say ? Punisher War Zone was as close to a Punisher comic as you can get ( And one that Lion's Gate has ripped from theaters because it bombed so badly ) and The Spirit is as close to a Frank Miller comic as you can get on screen . This is what Miller does flaws and all on the big screen , great visuals and gawd awful dialog complete for all the world to see . The trouble is that Miller's painfully uneven dialog sounds really bad coming out of the mouths of actual human beings . Could we please stop with this comic style look already ? Yes at times it provides great visuals and at other times it just falls apart . No the film isn't good . No it isn't as horrible as many have made it out to be . . . but its close . the main problems ( I don't have enough time to go into all of them ) is first that Miller can't find a tone . Is this a comedy , if so what kind ? Is this a drama ? If so what kind ? Miller never seems to know and while the shifting tones can work on the page they don't work on the screen . ( Miller also holds his shots too long , what would be a single panel among many in a comic where you'd quickly pass over them , here he holds them much too long as if in love with the image , but thats another story ) . The second big flaw is the cast stinks . Samuel L Jackson is over the top . Scarlett Johansen is really bad ( I mean really bad , I mean she sucks ) and Gabriel Macht has no weight to him , which is bad since he is the hero . How did he get the lead ? All of the problems are Miller's , even the cast because even if he didn't have a say he had to direct them . Honestly I like Frank Miller . I like his comic stuff , but lets be honest where he is a first class artist his writing has been less then sterling once he was set loose as a name ( Have you actually READ 300 ? How about the Dark Knight Sequel ? and Sin City is at best uneven ) The Spirit is a deeply flawed film that just doesn't work .
Despite attempts by all involved this is a low grade mafia movie .	This far from particularly anything mafia movie is not worth bothering with . Its the story of two generations of gangsters in Philadelphia doing what gangsters do . Its loaded with low level character actors , most of whom have made their careers playing these sort of roles . While they may be fine in support , here , as leads , they look more than a bit uncertain . The real problem with this is the direction and the script which are on the bad TV movie level . I was laughing at it as the opening court room scene began . As the scene went on the film made me squirm more and more . This wasn't real , it was someones confused TV recollection of realityDon't watch this . It has moments of okayness , but mostly its just bad gangster dress up .
A waste of time	released with no publicity or anything a few weeks back I saw this on a couple of movie Marquees and went to investigate . Family friendly ( they hoped ) TV movie about a 17 or 18 year old girl going to visit the family of a deceased childhood friend . There she runs into a mystery involving ghosts and a death curse . My notes from this are sketchy , mostly scribbles about how Rissa Walters as Sarah can't act . To be certain she looks good but its all over once she opens her mouth . The real question I seemed to have was how this ever got any sort of theatrical release , even one that rivals the release of Terry Jones Wind and the Willows ( Then again this has some promotional material , I remember a poster , wind in the willows didn't ) . A waste of time . Lets hope the promise of a series of Sarah Landon films never is fulfilled .
Bad feature version of a bad serial . Containing possibly the worst Bela Lugosi nonperformance , this is a movie to avoid unless you like to torture yourself	Feature version of a serial of the same name has Bela Lugosi turning tables on a woman who hired him to help with her evil plans in Chinatown while a reported and her beau hunt down the villains . One of the few things worse than this movie is the full length serial version . That monstrosity put me to sleep with its wild over length ( 15 chapters with enough plot for 2 ) and the same poor production values that make this film just as bad . I've seen almost every sound serial ever made , but the original serial was a chore and a half to get through and I never finished it ( its one of the few ) . I have no idea what possessed me to try the feature version other than , perhaps selective amnesia about the original . Here the story unfolds in approximately one fifth the time but its a hopeless mess with an attempt to get a good portion of the " good bits " into it . Making matters worse is the cheapness of the film , this was an independent production and had a limited budget . There's tons of stock footage , almost no music and a technical quality ( especially the sound ) thats lacking . In the " of note " column , and its not really a good thing , is the fact that this stands as one of the worst performances Bela Lugosi ever gave . I'm not even sure its a performance . Even in the final days Bela was never this disconnected to what he was doing . Its mind numbingly awful . Fortunately he's not alone since a good many of the other actors are clearly collecting a pay check not to act . Herman Brix , who would soon change his name to Bruce Bennett and move on to better things does give a performance , even if its phoned in . Bad film lovers may want to see this on fast forward , but otherwise I'd avoid it at all costs .
George Romero's worst film is an illogical bust	George Romero restarts his Zombie series by using the conceit of a film crew interrupted making a horror by the start of the zombie nonsense and filming as they try to go home to be with family and friends . Internally inconsistent ( everything has movie lighting no matter where anyone is ? ) and at times down right stupid its easily the worst film Romero has made . The less said then better since you don't need to subject yourself to Romero trying to make a Romero film ala Cloverfield . ( I had problems with Cloverfield and what was filmed there-this is ten times worse ) Go Watch Land of the Dead or any of the earlier films .
Harrison Ford in his worst performance makes this an unbearable film	Harrison Ford gives his worst performances as a computer security expert who's family is kidnapped so he'll help a band of thieves rob his bank . From the first frame to the last Ford looks like he'd rather be anywhere other than making this film . His displeasure carries over and makes this an almost impossible movie to get through . If he doesn't want to be here why should we ? I kept feeling that if Ford were a member of my family and I was kidnapped I'd ask the kidnappers if I could stay with them . Its a shame really since this is a good idea and a good cast thats wasted by the unhappiness of our lead . Given the choice I'd rather watch a TV screen full of static rather than see this again .
A waste of your time even if you must see every horror movie ever made	Good effects are totally wasted in this lousy Chinese horror film . The plot has some friends vacationing in Thailand . While out adventuring the group sees a and video tapes a young woman being pushed into the street and run over . Later that night their camera begins to turn itself on and cause strange things to happen . One of the things that this film causes in the view is complete impatience . Five minutes into the film the girl is run over . Then pretty much nothing happens for the next half hour . Actually stuff happens , the group of people drive around Thailand and see the sights while we watch them drive from place to place . Then when things finally begin to happen and one of the girls is possessed by the spirit in the camera we watch as she walks through the hotel and then gets into a truck to be driven somewhere where she gets out to walk along to where she meets a guy who kills her . Its a 74 minute movie that would probably run half that if you removed all the driving and walking scenes . Its painful . Yes the film has some great visuals and effects at times , the movie just drones on and on and on that even on fast forward its painful to watch . This is a waste of your time and money unless you feel the need to see every horror film ever made , and even then its not worth it .
No one on screen cares so no one in the audience does	No budget direct to video tale of aliens in Arizona involving the military and escaped convicts . Not bad as such , rather it suffers from the cast and crew sort of going through the paces instead of trying to sell it . Its as if they knew they were in a grade z movie and want you to know they know . Then again maybe they just couldn't get it together . A misfire of a grade z movie that could have been something if some one cared - - and had skill . Why must low budget filmmakers insist on not actually trying to make a something good instead of just making a product . because nothing comes together
more of the same	After an opening graphic autopsy of Jigsaw the film settles down into the usual game of nasty traps so that people will finally feel alive , as Jigsaw has left some messages from beyond the grave . Technically a better film than the previous two this film suffers from total illogic and the damning flaw ( as have all but the first film ) of the impossibility of making and setting up these elaborate traps in such short period of time . yes the traps are cool , but lets face it , they really are just S & M porn pushed to the limit while everyone keeps their clothes on . While I'm all for what ever floats your boat I have to wonder what this says about out society when the orgasm of the actors in real porn which might involve a loving relationship is restricted and locked away , while films like Saw 4 where heads are squashed in anger and hatred between two huge blocks with a huge eruption of blood and brain matter , is readily available to anyone pretty much at any age simply because its not deemed adult . Where is societies priorities ?
Awful dumbing down of a classic British hero . Skip this movie and watch the other two films in the series instead .	Based on the classic British Radio series this clunker of a movie is a series of bad choices ( which they corrected for the next two movies ) , and one of the worst films Hammer Studios ever produced . The plot of this film has to do with smuggling and Nazi spies in and around a small English Village . The villain is a German agent posing , as a Swedish scientist , complete with German accent . He has secret tunnels and hideouts in the village and is plotting great evil . He is aided by various people in the village all of whom are suspicious looking in the extreme . Good guy Dick Barton is sent to the town by his bosses , under cover of taking a vacation , to the village to find out whats going on . This movie is bad , really bad . The film was aimed at kids and they dumb the whole movie down with over the top performances and really bad humor . Frankly this is more a misfiring comedy rather than the exciting action adventure of the radio . The direction is at best stiff with the actors not so much directed as arranged in tableaux , upon which the camera locks . It reminded me of a movie from the advent of the movies . I'm dumb founded at this films awfulness . I've given the movie a 2 instead of a 1 because there a few fleeting moments where the movie actually works , but they are high points in a very low movie and nothing you need concern yourself with . It would probably be best if you just skipped this movie and watched either of the other two Dick Barton films that followed .
Inept direction and poor choice of leads sinks this film	For the record this is the story of the mask which was created by Loki , who after many centuries tries to find it again , only to have it fall into the hands of an animator and his infant son . This film raises several interesting questions , first and foremost is why is Jaime Kennedy a star when he has no talent what so ever ? Based on this film he is talentless " actor " with no charisma . It maybe the film , but he's so uninteresting as to make watching this a chore . I'm certain that Alan Cumming , Bob Hoskins and Steven Wright were doing this for a pay check , but at least they turned in something approximating a performance . Kennedy walks through this film like a slacker . . . Then again considering the way the film turned out I'm convinced that most of the production staff were slackers . The special effects aren't special . For a " big budget " Hollywood film the effects feel unfinished and video game like . They do not approximate real , even cartoon real . Its as if the producers decided that they had reached the level of the dancing baby and to them that was fine . Its awful . The direction is poor . It has no comic sense . The wacky mask sequences fall flat . Whats worse is that they can't even approximate the classic Looney Tunes / MGM cartoons they copy . What annoys me is that this isn't so bad its good , its just bad . While this is certainly to be on my list of worst films of 2005 , I can't give it the it deserves , watching this I had the feeling that had this been better cast and directed this film might have actually worked . For the promise of what might have been I give this a two , however understand thats no reason to watch this waste of celluloid , this is a film best dropped in a very deep well for all eternity .
Bad direction , awful lead acting and cheapness turn what could have been an okay comedy / mystery in to a painful viewing experience	A newlywed couple spend their honeymoon in their " new " house instead of going to California . They are invaded by the police , a retired hangman , an escaped prisoner , a band of crooks and several dead bodies , all looking for something , either the crook or the loot hidden somewhere in the house . a humorous mystery follows . ( or not ) . This is a bad movie . Almost enjoyable it instead misses the mark and falls flat . Written by Morey Amsterdam it plays more as a series of loosely connected sketches rather than as a film as a whole . There are a good number of exchanges that have nothing to do with whats going on in the story ( they are funny but belong somewhere else ) . There is humor but the acting by the two leads is so broad and over the top that the film becomes annoying rather than amusing . I kept wishing that someone would kill the happy couple so that I wouldn't have to do it myself . The whole film looks cheap and the sets appear to wobble as people pass by . The direction is a mess . Even allowing for a cheapness that often allowed for only one camera set up ( count how many scenes are essentially done in one take ) this film has been put together by someone who seems to know nothing about how people really behave . Look at the scene where the bride to be is yapping away on the phone with her friends ; do people really stand around like that in real life as one of their number talks non stop on the phone ? Its like the most annoying sitcom you've ever seen , only worse . Bad . Bad . Bad . While not quite one of the worst films of all time , there are some funny bits , this is a film thats sure to induce sleep or pained screams in most people who see it . Avoid .
Awfully dull	This is the easiest to get of the Bowery Boys movies for two reasons its in the Public Domain and it has Bela Lugosi in it as a Nazi spy . Regrettably its a painful viewing experience and probably has turned more people off the the films of the Bowery Boys than any other . The plot has the boys fixing up a house for the sister of Glimpy and her new husband . However next door is a living a nest of Nazi spies who want any and all neighbors driven out so they can carry out their plans unobserved . The film is the usual collection of haunted house clichés played for " laughs " . Its a dreadful thing . The pacing is snail like , the first half of the film is the wedding and its preparation with only a fleeting appearance of Lugosi . The second half is the boys trying to decorate the house and deal with the Nazi spies . Its a scatter shot affair of a badly written script being undone by a cast that seems to be sleep walking through their performances . Worse much of the film seems to have been shot not during an actual take but during a less serious rehearsal . Blame it on legendary director " One Shot " William Beaudine who made 300 films mostly by only shooting one take for each shot . This film will bore you to sleep . Unless you have insomnia or a need to see ever Lugosi film ever made avoid this film .
This movie should be redacted-not for what it says rather because its just isn't any good	Brian DePalma finally makes a movie I don't like at all . Essentially a collection of video diaries , security footage and web postings around a rape in Iraq . this is an attempt at investigating a rape of an Iraqi woman by US soldiers . It shows the boredom of being in the country and what being so far from home can lead to . I didn't care . The early life in Iraq and standing mindlessly guard bits were so numbing that I lost all interest . It was so numbing that by the time things start to happen I didn't care . Part of it is that it rarely feels real . Its people pretending to copy peoples dull videos . Bill O'Rielly should just keep his mouth closed and this will just disappear .
Faithful but , but painful to watch film , thats mostly people walking from place to place	You gotta hand it to Timothy Hines , he has done the first period set , feature length version of War of the Worlds . Its 3HOURS long and reasonably faithful to the book . This is probably not a good thing . If you can get used to the on the cheap effects and sets , almost everything is a digital composite shot , then you'll have to get past the dialog , which seems to be every line of dialog from the novel . You may think this is a film about martians , actually it a very very talky film , about walking . Everyone in this film walks everywhere . Worse we get to see every trip it seems in its entirety . Its awful . Actually its incredibly dull , its also incredibly stupid . For example instead of compressing three trips to the first martian cylinder we get three complete walking trips to and from the cylinder where nothing happens , just the writer walking . There is no dialog , just the writer walking through the country side to music . It becomes mind numbing . And this gambit is repeated over and over and over again through the film , nothing happens , just people walking . If someone went back into the film and really edited this thing down then you'd have a watchable film at a watchable length , hell , removing the walking scenes would probably remove at least half an hour off the top . The other real problem is the digital composites and the visual effects . Every scene contains some sort of digital manipulation . Even the most basic backgrounds have been added into the film . At first its a minor annoyance , later its just painful to the eyes as everything looks unreal . The visual effects at first are fine , but as the film goes on they get worse and worse until you have ships at sea that are completely devoid of any sort of detail to make them real . It keeps pulling you out of the film again and again and again . I wanted to like this film , and for the first 40 minutes I did , but then it became endless walking , talking and bad visuals and despite its best intentions I have come to dislike it . Avoid this film unless you are in need of sleep . ( And trust me even on Fast Forward at 16X this is a chore to get through )
Mean spirited and ugly	I suppose this looked good on paper but the story of an everyman being tormented by his neighbors is simply an excuse for abusing the audience . I should talk , I've willingly sat down and watched this film a couple of times over the years , trying to figure out what several friends found so screamingly funny in this movie . After each screening , or partial one I'm left feeling that blows to the head by blunt instruments would have been more fun and would have taken away less time of my existence . Its not completely with out redeeming values , there are some laughs , well not laughs but chuckles , or maybe smiles . There's something that keeps this from the bottom of the bottom , but lord knows what it is . I hate this movie
How many people does it take to ruin a movie ?	This is one of the worst movies ever made . Its not so bad its good , its just bad . This is a film that actually has some wonderful things in it but its so badly put together with dreck that one wants to look for the masking tape holding the pieces of film together . Nominally the story of a young hero trying to save humanity after evil aliens have destroyed earth and driven mankind into space , this movie makes detours into other films and styles including the final surreal moment where it becomes the Tick in outer space ( Planet BOB ) . The rumor was that everyone had a hand in the film and that despite Don Bluth's best efforts to remain in control he had to bend to other people's helpful ideas . ( I haven't heard Bluth's commentary to the film nor do I have the strength to see the film again so I maybe wrong in what I remember ) The result is a series of stitched together sequences that are fine apart but not good together . The animation is a bad combination of hand drawn and computer rendered that never really meshes . I remember seeing this on the big screen on opening day and leaving with a headache since sequences like the asteroids of ice were too much like a bad video game to be watchable . As I said there are moments ( Planet Bob ) but the rest is just awful . Avoid unless you like to see non fun bad movies .
Pointless collection of people talking about flops and hits never amounts to much of anything	Easily the dumbest documentary HBO has ever been involved in this is a " look " at what makes a hit or a flop . Using loose subject headings various people talk about how we can never know what will hit or what will miss . We see how the rules of one moment don't apply to the next . There is also a good deal of discussion about how all film making is a crap shoot since what should work very often doesn't . Actually what this film is lots of stars and studio execs sitting in chairs telling " witty stories " about the films that worked and the films that failed all the while trying to come across as " gee whiz " nice guys . While the stories are interesting the film quickly reveals that there isn't much of a point , or if there is one , the point doesn't require 75 minutes to have it beaten into your head . Its the sort of movie where some one says Howard the Duck and expects it to get big laughs . We also get rapid fire clips from the various movies that are suppose to illustrate the point but are too brief and fleeting to be much beyond a visual reference . Its so many people talking so briefly about so many different movies , or speaking so generally that you get no real information about anything . Yes , there are some telling remarks about life in Tinseltown but its much ado about nothing since its the equivalent to reading a book of quotes on the movies with nothing beyond the quotes . Personally , I was bored and after half an hour I picked up a magazine and began to read . If you like movies give it a try , after all there are some good lines and confessions ( George Clooney on responsibility and Brian Grazer on wishing someone else's failure ) but its too long and never adds up to anything worth anything .
See Planet of Dinosaurs instead	Using footage pillaged from Planet of Dinosaurs this shot on video ( except for the stolen footage ) concerns a bunch of people shot into space who land on a dinosaur planet that is . . . don't wait for it , is really earth . Its a five minute sketch stretched to 90 minutes . Slightly better than Chickboxer ( another in the Bad Movie Police series ) - having a nostalgic home movie feel coupled with good stolen effects , this movie is still an impossible slog to get through . I'm left to ponder the question are we becoming so uncreative that we're now pillaging old movies not only for plot but also for mismatched footage ? Clearly low budget producers are getting so desperate they really will give us anything to take our money
I HATE this film	You will either buy into this contrived tale of orphan who hears music then runs off New York to find his parents or you won't . I didn't . Cloyingly cute I had no patience for it and squirmed from the opening bits of the kid conducting the wind , through the flash back meeting of young rock star dad and rich girl cellist torn apart by her disapproving dad , on to the really annoying Robin " Please put my head in a duck press to make me stop screaming " Williams and then to the oh gee ending . I hated almost every moment other than the music . Whats worse was I didn't bail when I had the chance ( what would it take stand up and walk out ) and stayed to the hand holding ending in the hope that it would all turn around and I'd get weepy . No such luck . Hey this might click for you , it did for several ladies in my office , but for me it was time I won't get backhey things are looking up I have eating aluminum foil on the slate for dinner and after my bath I will be combing my hair with a rusty cheese grater
Why are we being asked to watch this ? I don't know since its an hour you will never get back	This is the story of Carol Morley's wild and wanton years back in the 1980's . The film is a series of talking heads of the people Carol slept and partied with back on the 1980's while she was in a band inter-cut with old film footage and new film footage . Carol doesn't appear on film and the film is structured as if the interviewees are talking to Carol and the inter-cut footage is memory . I think . Then again I really don't care . There is only so much that I can hear about some one's sex life over and over again before I stop caring . Usually about two minutes , this is 50 odd minutes more than that . Actually to be honest the problem is not that I don't want to hear about her sex life , I would , if it was interesting , but its not , its the same basic tale repeated over and over again . There is talk about Carol's partying but mostly people seem to focus on the sex , or so it seemed to me . I watched this hoping that I would find something to latch onto , but I couldn't . I don't know why this would interest anyone other that the director who may or may not have made this in an effort to remember how many people she actually slept with . I have no idea what sort of hubris would make someone think that anyone other than those involved with her would want to see this film . for the five minutes that the film is interesting .
Stinker	On its 200th birthday a town is given a piano as a gift . Unfotunately its haunted by the spirit of sorcerer killed by some of the town's founders . You've seen it all before and better . Actually you've also seen it shorter on any number of old TV anthology shows . And to be honest the script is not all that bad ( even if it is full of plot holes and contradictions ) . The problem with this film is that anytime the ghosts of the past show up to torment and kill someone this film goes from just okay thriller to jaw droppingly awful . You will not believe how bad the scenes with the ghost are . They are so badly filmed , costumed and played out as to resemble nothing so much as the worst grammar school production of a Thanksgiving pageant that you can imagine . Its really bad . This is a movie to avoid since its not good in a bad sort of way , its just bad .
Thank God , that means we'll never have to watch this again	This is one of the worst Japanese big budget films I've run across . The plot has something to do with a project concerning Jupiter going horribly wrong and . . . you really don't want to know . Trust me as bad as you think some of the Godzilla movies and films like The Green Slime are , this is worse , but not in a good way . This is just stupid , the hippies being the last straw on a short list of reasons to watch , none of which are good . I have no idea why anyone would like this on anything but a technical level since the plot , which I've finally been able to erase from my mind only thanks to years of very expensive therapy . All I remember is that the film seemed to want to be a flower power film but was made by people who didn't know what that was and were 15 years too late . ( these people couldn't plot a film even if they were handed it ) This film was suggested to me by a friend who loves it , " saying you'll either love it or you won't , but I think you will " . He was wrong . Trust me , there are better ways to spend two and a half hours , many much more pleasant
Unfunny sex comedy	This is essentially the joke of the farmers daughter stretched to 90 minutes . For my taste thats 89 minutes too long . Think of it as a good looking sex comedy that isn't really funny or sexy . Clearly its suppose to be and many of the cast mug shamelessly , in the hopes of getting a laugh or disrobe in the hopes of getting a rise out of the audience unfortunately its all for naught , little of this film actually works , or works in such away that is interesting to watch . Honestly I picked this up thinking this was " An Erotic Ghost Story " which I had heard is pretty good . Clearly I'll have to make sure I get the right name next time . Pass this one up , its just a waste of time .
The performances of a burlesque stars and nothing else .	A filmed performance of a Burlesque show in Harlem . Like most of the films like this there is little beyond the acts them selves . Its a mixed lot . This was clearly shot on a stage with the camera simply filming what was going on on stage . Unfortunately the camera work for this film is extremely limited consisting of a wide shot for the musical dance numbers . A close up for the comedy and singers . Most films of this short do have limited camera motion and shot choices , this film has next to none with the choice limited as I've said to either close up or wide shot . I've seen a number of these filmed performances and this is kind of towards the bottom of the pack . Its not really bad but its not really interesting either . More a historical record then an entertainment .
For buck its worth it	Clips from Bruce Lee's films he made as a child are followed by a knock off kung fu story without Lee that really isn't very good . I picked this up in the dollar bin and for a buck it was worth it . The opening stuff of Bruce Lee as a child is interesting since you see Lee's charisma even at an early age . Unfortunately the effort to stretch the film into something more falls flat since the non-archival stuff is really dreadful . I found myself scanning through the material hoping for something more that was good but it never came . I paid a buck . It was worth the buck to see the early films . It's not worth any more than that since after the early films is a good deal of really bad material .
A kiss ? No none for me thanks	1970's horror movie that seems more silly then scary with an evil scientist and psychic countess lurking about in the dungeon of a castle making efforts to raise the dead . The ghoul they bring back looks rather silly and would have looked silly when the film was made . The look and sensibility of the film is decidedly European in flavor but it doesn't add up to much . Honestly I could have done with out the fashion show at the start since it both portents a large scale film then we get and it also distracts from getting the story underway . If you ask me this is a clunker . ( Thats just my opinion , There are several people I know who love this film , but I just don't understand what they see it it . )
Looks good but is otherwise a mess	Jean Rollin artistic nonsense about vampires , aliens and the quest for immortality . The women are beautiful and the photography stunning . The dialog is inane . Its a laughable mess . Great to look at but as any semblance of a horror film or thriller purely awful . I'm trying to figure out if we're suppose to be scared or not . At the same time is it a put on or not ? Its an odd mix of art film and horror that never quite meshes and while its nice to look at it never seems to " mean " anything , and its by no means scary even if the occasional shot or sequence creates a moment of frisson Its well made pretentious twaddle . Something to leave on in the background as a living wall paper for those who like naked women .
Dull and dumb	First of the Boris Karloff Mr Wong Films . Karloff is hired by the head of a chemical company to protect him and find out who is following him . However before he can actually take the job his client is killed in a locked room . Better than most of the films in the series , its kind of like saying pneumonia is better than double pneumonia . Slow dull and incredibly dumb , this is the sort of film that has dumb characters who create complications so that the plot goes one for the allotted running time . Examples include Wong sending his client home after an attempt on his life and the hounding of " suspects " who couldn't possibly have done it . Karloff is actually pretty good as Wong , Monograms attempt at a Charlie Chan style detective , unfortunately the script and the direction let him down . This film runs 70 minutes but feels three times that . Its the sort of thing that will put you to sleep in much the same way that watching paint dry will .
lack of a script , a believable world and characters makes this a series of emotionally empty great looking cgi filled action scenes with nothing to connect them	( THIS COMMENT HAS SPOILERS ) Timur Bekmambetov , who scored with the Night Watch films comes to America ( again-the first time he was working for Roger Corman ) and makes a visually arresting but other wise incredibly stupid action film . The plot of the film has Wesley Gibson ( James Mc Avoy ) , an account manager who is as put upon as they come , recruited by a band of assassins in order to be trained to kill the man who killed his father , , one of the men who had leading the assassins . There are some twists and turns but mostly its an excuse for some really good looking set pieces , that are worth the effort to see them on TV when this finally hits cable . As for the twists and turns , there are maybe two ' and they are so late in the game as to be purely an excuse to keep the movie going until its reached the two hour mark . This is a a seventy minute film stretched to two hours for no good reason . The simplistic retelling of the plot is how simple the film is . It actually removes any clichéd notions of films with similar plots by excising any notions of exposition . It does this because the script doesn't really provide any sort of story or real characters . Part of the problem is that the film has a series of set pieces that take away from any notion of character development , there is no time when you have to get to the next fight or training scene . So no one , not even McAvoy arc , they just are . Sure McAvoy's character changes but its as if someone flipped a switch not grows overtime . Whats worse is the fact that the world the characters live in isn't real , not even remotely . Only the characters can do super things and they do so in away that isn't believable , we really don't know why or how other than " training " . It makes no sense . ( actually they cut out that this is based on super villains vs superhero story ) Actually nothing makes sense even its own twisted film world . In the Night Watch films there are similar stunts and action , but a world is created where all of the weirdness could happen . Here there is nothing , these people exist ( and haven't been found out despite doing fantastical things , and we have to take it on faith ) and we have to accept that and everything else the film tells us . You see its not just in the action scenes , whole concepts in the film just ring as false because there is no reason for it . The Loom for example . Worst of all is the healing bath . Shades of Ra's Al Ghul's Lazarus bath , which is used so that McAvoy can get the stuffing kicked out of him over and over again . Its a cheat of the worst sort . The film makers have asked us to believe way too much . I can suspend disbelief up to a point but you can't give me 12 things to believe and not give me any means of support . To be certain the action scenes are great . To be honest they are pure CGI but they still are incredible pieces of visual ballet . The problem is that because the story is lacking I can only admire the visuals I can't love them because there is no reason to take them as anything other then as set pieces unconnected to anything . On some level the motion and pretty pictures entertained me , but at the same time I felt I wasted a couple hours of my life . Honestly I haven't felt this bad in a long time , even with all the trash grade z movies I watch . This was two hours I will never get back . What makes it really painful is the action works , the acting is there , but the script was clearly stuck in the word processor . Wait for cable .
The monsters attacks are some of the best visuals in years . The rest of the film is one of the worst .	First off you don't see any dragons until the end , serpents , monsters and other nasties but an actual Asian dragon only at the end . This is the story of a young man who realizes that a story that was told to him by an old guy in an antique shop is true - he is the reborn protector of a girl who has the power to make a giant serpent into a dragon - a power that the evil serpent wants to use . In the 1500's , the last time the girl was born , the protector and the girl fell in love and committed suicide when the monsters attacked . Now everyone has been reborn and the monsters-which no one believes in , at first , are on the march . The action sequences and visual effects are mostly sterling . These are mind blowing attack and monster sequences as the evil serpent tries to get the girl in 1503 with a huge army , the serpent now trying to do the same both on its own and with a huge monster army in the middle of Los Angeles , as well as final battle . As it stands now these are some of the most incredible mind blowing action scenes ever in any monster movie . I am in awe of them . they are quite simply everything you ever thought would be cool in a Godzilla movie and then some . I want to say things a great deal more , but I think that would be over selling it ( which I won't do with the next bit ) . However . . . . . . . . . . . . However . . . . . . . . . . . . . Everything else in this film is awful . I mean this is one of the worst films of the year . Don't get me wrong they spent every buck on the action sequences and I'm grateful , but the rest of the film is just bad . Its badly written , badly filmed and often poorly acted , clearly it was a pay check job for most of the cast . the basic idea of the story is okay but outside of the action sequences this movie is dreadful . I can't tell you how bad it is . Its so bad that it made me wish that I had missed the set up and just came in on the monster attacks since the non-action stuff is so bad is ruins the rest of the movie . Forgive me but this is an just a really bad movie when the monsters are not on screen-so much so its very close to unwatchable . Yes I will buy it on DVD so I can see the action sequences again , but add this ( minus its action scenes ) to the list of films playing on eternal repeat in hell .
A rare watchable Al Adamson film	Okay I'm going to say something that I can rarely said to have ever willingly said , this is a watchable Al Adamson movie . Adamson was a bad filmmaker from the late 1960's and early 1970's who churned out a great deal of really bad , and not in a fun sort of way , films . A good many of them had John Carradine , which is apropos of nothing but its just the way things are . Most are so bad you'd want to pluck your eyes out rather than watch them . A few a precious few are awful but watchable in that bad but good way . This is one of those bad but good sort of films . Actually its bad but watchable which is a different kettle of fish . I don't know why this film kind of works in a 3am late late show way but it does . The plot has a couple inheriting a castle from a 108 year old uncle . The castle was and is being rented by a nice old couple who are really Dracula and his bride . Carradine is the butler who along with a 7 foot tall hunchback keep women chained in the basement for the vampires blood needs . Just as the couple decide to go to the castle to pitch the tenants Dracula has their werewolf buddy sprung from an insane asylum so that he can get them better blood . Jaw dropping silliness ensues . I think this film works on any level because I think its suppose to be funny . I don't think the humor works as intended but it does give this mess watchable quality , especially if you're into movies that are so bad they are good
Bad TV adaptation of a good book	The source material of this TV movie is a novel called White Shark . It was a failure when published since the public thought it was about a great white shark , instead of what it was , namely a crazed tale about a Nazi experiment re-awakened . The novel's plot played like the movie Shock Waves , but gorier and loopier . It was a great read thanks to Peter Benchley's storytelling ability . It was nothing if not a wonderful guilty pleasure that would have made a great movie had they filmed it straight . . . . . . The problem was the producers couldn't leave well enough alone and decided to take a grade Z plot line that worked because of the authors skill , and change it so that it was a grade Z plot line in the hands of a grade Z writer and director . The result is a laughably bad over long movie that has a laughable but cool monster and little else . This is a movie to get drunk and make fun of . Its a so good its great film , or would be except its way way too long .
Too by the numbers to be much fun	College kids tossed out of their apartment for having a party go to an abandoned church to stay , and against anyones better judgment crack out the Ouiji board and contact the spirits lurking with in . the problem was that the last person to stay there wanted to contact a demon , which he did . . . and you can guess the rest . By the numbers and not really scary because odds are you'll have been down the road before . The young cast is actually quite good , which is a shame since they really could have enlivened a film that didn't seem to be going down the same old road yet again . To be fair there are a couple of moments that work , but they are only moments and not enough to sustain interest in the film .
The black and white art is great , the stories considerably less so since they echo any number of short horror tales from TV , radio , movie or books	Multipart animated film from France that is probably high on the love list of Mike Mignola and Frank Miller since its very often all black screens with very little white . Another one from IFC Films that is a rather disappointing film on all but the artistic level . The stories are linked by a lord of some sort walking his dogs across a landscape and setting one loose on a person periodically . This leads into an abstract animated piece with narration which then leads into the stories . The first story is from Charles Burns and it plays like a Charles Burns story , with a guy finding a weird bug that gets loose as he is picked up by a possessive girl . Another story is a manga or anime like tale of a little girl who is being tormented . The third is about a a monster on the loose and the final one concerns a man who breaks into a house . ( I think I missed a very short one , but frankly its no loss ) . None of the stories are really scary or creepy ( Maybe the Burns piece is the best because of the unease of the interpersonal relationships . ) Worse they are all the sort of tales that we've seen before , mores so if you love short horror fiction be it books , TV films or radio . What works here is the art which at times seems more like fine etchings or story illustrations come to life . it beautiful stuff ( the exception being the Charles Burns stuff which looks like everything he's ever done ) . Worth a look only if you like animation as art , and even then I'd wait for a rental . ( I had such high hopes )
Not so good adaption of a novel that was turned into a classic of world cinema 20 years earlier	Live action version ( or is that revision ? ) of a novel that was turned into one of the greatest animated films ( and possibly any sort of film ) ever made . The original is one of the most heartbreaking touching films I've ever seen . the original is a masterpiece . This new version is considerably less . The film is set in Japan in the closing days of the Second World War where a teenage boy and his his young sister must navigate the war ravaged country after their mother is killed in a bombing raid and their father is off fighting the war . Its based on a semi autobiographical novel by Akiyuki Nosaka . The thought of a live action version of the classic story seemed to me to be a natural idea . Unfortunately hampered by what seems to be a limited budget and rewriting ( or perhaps its too close to the novel ? ) of the story this version is a major misfire . A huge problem with the film is that it is largely set bound there is no sense of being really in a bombed out Japan . We never really go many places that give us a sense of a country being bombed , much less fire bombed ( the film is set in Kobe after the fire bombing but it seems like its not a city , town or village nor anything that was fire bombed ) . Much of the story takes place in and a round the country home of a woman the pair goes to stay with on the instructions of their dead mother . What was a small human story told on a large canvas is now a small human story told on a small one . It all feels like sets with the few scenes of devastation obvious matte paintings . It might have worked had the film not felt like a TV movie of the week , but it never really comes off . There simply is no sense of a war being raged anywhere except in the most fleeting of moments . It doesn't help that the lead actor isn't very good . He seems too rigid and with of his actions being thought out or told to him . Its a complete change from the boy we see in the " making of " documentary on the DVD . Watch his reaction when he is told his mother has died . there is not life in what he does just motion by rote . I have to point out that I don't really know the source novel only the animated film that was made from it . My reaction to this film is tied to my feelings for the earlier film . My understanding is that the earlier film is close to the book , with only the final image deviating from the novel . To that end its probably not really fair to complain about changes to the story , but I'm going to do so in a limited way . Much of the original story seems to have been jettisoned . Most of the scenes that I remember from the original are gone . However most serious is the change to the ending . . . its neither touching nor crushing . . . . in its twisted sort of way its happy . . . but happy in the wrong sort of way . . . where the original was an end to the pain , this is something else entirely . I wouldn't care if the film worked on its own terms but it doesn't , I've looked at the film two and a half times now and even watching it for itself the film doesn't amount to much because of its lack of scope and sense of having been done better before ( and I don't mean the earlier film since this film feels nothing like the animated film , which is good because its easy to divorce yourself from the earlier tale and take it for itself on a second viewing . But the problem is that in revising the story and making it its own creation they've made it like so many other war is hell for civilian films that all power is lost and it doesn't stand out at all . How many films does this look like ? Too many . I'm disappointed . Its a misfire . Its not worth the effort to run down .
Rent the video of the stage show instead	Madea , Tyler Perry's cash cow is back , this time under the direction of Perry himself , and we are not the better for it . The plot has Madea contending with family problems as she gets ready for her family reunion . Its typical Madea madness as we get both wild comedy and touching human drama . Unfortunately Tyler Perry is not a particularly good film director and the comedy and drama don't really mesh . The problem is Perry's performance as Madea is off . Clearly Perry has other things on his mind and it shows . Perry's mind is on the scenes he doesn't appear in , but anytime he's on screen things get lost . This is a bad thing since Perry's Madea is the glue that holds the stories together and with her essentially missing there is no reason to watch . Its as if Perry is on autopilot and goes back to the broad performances that work so well on stage , but which seem too out of control in the " real " world of film . ( Clearly Perry needs to let someone else direct him in the next film ) I have to say I'm a fan of Madea . I like the character that Perry has created and I like the stage shows that he's put on , which is why I'm disappointed when I see how the opening up of the plays tends to fall flat . If you want to see what I mean watch Perry in action in any of the videos of the stage shows that the Madea films have come from . They are very funny , very human morality plays that actually move you . . A misfire .
All action with no plot this condensed serial just doesn't work	Condensed version of the serial of the Invisible Monster is all motion and little else . The plot has to do with an evil genius in a special suit that renders him in visible when a certain light is projected on it . He's brought in four men from behind the iron curtain promising them freedom , but instead he's entangled them in a criminal affair . Battling the villain is a couple of insurance investigators . Beginning with a couple of henchmen running a police road block this movie is pure action and it moves like the wind throwing rational plot aside in the name of action . Almost all of the exposition from the serial has been removed and all that's left is the motion . Its exhausting , and not in a good way . Its all just one big chase / fight . Making matters worse is the repetition of location becomes tedious . What is passable over the course of several weeks in theaters or over the course of 12 chapters becomes monotonous over an hour and a half movie , I kept thinking didn't we just trash this place ten minutes ago . This condensation irked me almost instantly . Republic did a number of these in the wake of the Batman TV series when the Batman serials were released to theaters . The release brought attention to serials and Republic moved to cash in . Some of the movie versions worked ( The feature of the Crimson Ghost ) and some didn't ( this ) . Given the choice I'd try to find the full serial and skip this abbreviated version .
There are better ways to spend your time	Anthony Wong , one of my favorite Hong Kong actors . Here he plays the husband of a woman who returns home to be with her mother and sister in a house where weird things are going on . There spirits floating about and the house is full of bad feng shui because of where and how its built ( Its " on the border between heaven and hell " and two pillars " are like " coffin nails " ) . Once there the spooks start to move things , an exorcist is brought in , ritual is performed and things get even weirder as people turn out to have other spirits in them and are not who they say they are . Simply put its a mess . A half hour in and I had no idea what the heck I was watching . Wong seems to be sleep walking through his role as a man who wants to just make love to his wife and " excrete " , not relieve himself , or download or another word for going to the bathroom , but excrete ( It may have been the subtitles but even I doubt it ) . When in the end he wakes up confused about who he is and what was going on I found myself sympathizing . Not worth the effort unless you collect odd ball misfires
More artificial than than most Christmas trees	Queen Latifah vanity project ( she produced ) story of a single mom with three kids looking to find a life beyond her kids and ends up with a guy playing Santa . Manufactured " feel good " flick with Latifah in a Greek chorus / on screen narrator role . Its not bad as such but awfully artificial in a way that is more ideal than real . take for example the opening bit of the guy chasing the money down the street , its a cutesy idea that is too artificial to illicit any reaction other than " Oh Please " . Actually that kind of sums up the whole movie " oh please " . This is holiday " goodness " so plastic as to squeeze all of the life out of it . If you must see this wait for it to show up on cable where you won't have to pay ten bucks a head for something you can't get away from by changing the channel
time wasted	Based on a novel by David Gerrold this is the story of a scifi writer ( John Cusack ) who is widowed . He decides to adopt a child who happens to be shy , withdrawn and thinks he's from Mars . I had problems with this from the beginning . The efforts to show Cusack as a " martian child " himself at the start fell pretty flat . Mostly concerned with a brief description of his child hood and a book release interview where he says that he as a writer identifies with the alien in his new book ( hello mr obvious ) . Cusack then remains pretty much a cypher for the rest of the film staring blankly and wondering if he's doing the right thing . Everyone speaks in low tones and I found myself falling asleep from the non-emotive delivery . I could go on but I won't . the film is just a misfire that probably is going to remain down below the radar . Cusack fans will probably like it but then again I'm a fan and the over work of the multiple writers have just made a really bland film . While its not a bad film in any real sense , I find that its one of the few films this year where I really feel I wasted my time and that Hollywood wasted the effort . .
Weak remake of 3 classics	This is the American version of the French Taxi films and it suffers in comparison . I'm not kidding when I say that this a remake of the three French films since although the film is mainly a poor remake of the the first film , it lifts sequences from the second and third films . Its a mess , a real mess . I'm a huge huge fan of the French films , and for me there was no real point in my seeing this since anything that worked came from the originals . Why did they bother ? They changed the sex of the lead ( though the Queen is excellent ) , combined others and rewrote the cops mother to the point of stupidness . They lost any sense of timing and connection . . . they should have started from the ground up . Its not the painfully awful film that some reviews made it out to be , but it is a waste of time . If you can find the originals and watch those . That should take you the better part of 5 hours and in the end you will not feel as though you've wasted your life . .
Its not four days long , it only feel that way	Long rambling slice of life in an alternative America just before the end of the world by the creator of Donnie Darko . Surprisingly well acted by everyone except Sean William Scott , this film is so out there as to be in another galaxy . Truly operating in a world not our own , you either have to accept it on its own terms or you'll go mad . At times hysterically funny in an uneasy " is this a comedy or not ? " sort of way it comes off more or less like a huge joke on everyone from the studio heads to the audience . Richard Kelly can't be serious . . . . Watching it I was both drawn in hoping at some point something would make sense and not seem like we were being put on , while at the same time ripping it apart as nothing made sense and it just got weirder and weirder for no good reason . Running at a length something akin to 4 days long I can't imagine what this was like in its longer cut . I think the best description of the film is Roger Eberts screaming venom filled rant . While I do not have that much bile to cover it I completely understand where he's coming from .
The bits that do work just never really come together	Supernatural horror film about a young boy who's mother dies suddenly on his birthday . Years later a chain of events beginning with the death of a nun spirals him downward into the pit of hell . Mixed bag horror film that is has some really great images and a sense of things being really off that are under cut by a lack of budget ( The death by model plane that starts everything is laughable as are some of the other deaths ) and performances that aren't all there , with some of the cast seeming to have come from who ever was around that day . Its one of those films that almost works but falls just short so seems more like a missed opportunity then something you actually will want to sit through . To be fair those who don't mind trying films that don't work as a whole in order to see spooky imagery will want to give it ago for the bits that do work .
Uwe Boll's abilities as a filmmaker ruin a script that should have been a good B scifi action horror film	Uwe Boll slips back in his film-making skills once again to offer up a scifi horror tale of mercenaries and reporters taking on super soldiers on a remote island . An okay cast headed by the excellent Udo Keir is cast adrift by Boll who makes the worst of script that should have worked . The mad scientist being investigated by a reporter has been done to death but this script is amusing enough that the plot should have worked , additionally the effects and super soldier design with their dead lifeless eyes have some degree of creepiness , however Boll somehow manages to film everything in an off handed way . Its as if he couldn't be bothered to actually figure out what would work and instead rattled off stock camera placements and walked away . Additionally the assembly of scenes has no spark or life , I'm guessing that Boll only shot one or two takes and just used what he had . It really stinks . Clearly Boll is in one of his periodic retrograde films where anything he's ever learned about film gets flushed . The last film he made that was this bad was Seed a serial killer movie that is one of the worst films I've ever seen . This isn't that bad , but it is close simply because it should have been better . Then again Udo Keir is good enough that he does make watching his scenes worth the effort and make this a an almost so bad its good film . I'd take a pass unless it's late at night and you're catching it on cable .
Other than the odd moment this film is a snoozer	Dull Indonesian revenge flick is wildly politically incorrect but not very exciting . Cobra and his band rob , rape , run guns , deal drugs and everything else you can thing of under the sun . Cobra also likes to have women taken off the street and brought to him . One such person is Irma , who is pregnant . When she refuses his advances he has her gang raped . Her husband blames the whole thing on his unborn baby and he tries to take revenge . Eventually Irma dressed all in leather and packing a bazooka takes out the men who did her wrong . Thats the Cliff Notes version and while it leaves out a few eye opening details it is more exciting then the film itself . Lets face it , this is a really dull and dumb movie . The majority of it is rather slow . Any exciting bits tend to be the things that happen out of left field ( the miscarriage ) or the fights , which really don't happen until towards the end . The rest of the film is just really boring and badly acted . I put my copy on this morning figuring some mindless violence would wake me up and instead I found myself struggling not to fall asleep . If you see on Indonesian action film - see something else .
Too low a budget sinks what could have been a good film	Shot on video and transfered to real film no budget movie is about a street gang running into a battle with a crime family over a suitcase full of money . Unevenly acted and put together this is film that doesn't really work because its so up and down . What works is fine but what doesn't kills the film outright . I'm wondering if a severe lack of money made the filmmakers go with what they had so that they had to keep the bad performances , or poor shot choices ( say close ups that are partial faces ) and occasionally really bad sound . What is annoying with the film is that this film could have been a real low budget winner but the lack of funds ( I hope ) got in the way . Sadly its the sort of thing you'll remember because it didn't work rather than because it did .
The not very clever twist is the only reason you'll keep watching this not very good film .	There have been a bunch of articles this week headlined " I Know Who Killed My Career " on how Lindsey Lohan's career problems are all her own doing . I guess its nice that Lohan can rest in knowing that the mess that is I know Who Killed Me isn't all her doing , after all film is a collaborative medium . A woman found on the road is believed to be some one who went missing , but gosh darn it no one believes that she's not who they think she is . The twist like much of this film just doesn't work or make any sense ( I was going to reveal the twist but honestly its the only reason to see the film because knowing it going in makes seeing it pointless ) . I mean why cast a 45 year old with a whiskey barrel voice as a young . . . oh wait Lohan is only 21 , sorry . Geeze she looks older than me , and older than her Mom . Anyway Lohan and her very lived in body aside this isn't a very good movie . I don't know what possessed me to see this but I did hoping for " The first great bad film of the year " which Newsday proclaimed it in its 0 star review . Unfortunately its not great , just bad .
Road accident of a movie that misses being decent enough to enjoy or bad enough to have fun with .	Inspector Fu is a bad cop . A really bad cop , he'll kill anyone for any reason and lie cheat and steal when ever he can . After coming to the rescue of a two men trying to get out from under the pressure of owing some gangsters money , he turns around and sets them up to take the fall for some of his own corruption . Fu is eventually arrested and sent off to jail . However before he can get there he is rescued and flees to mainland China . Sometime later Fu is living the life of a powerful boss in China , however the men he set up are looking for revenge and the police are starting to close in . This is a not very good action tale . The action , when it comes , is very uneven with some fight scenes being very well done , while others , in particular the gun fights being laughably bad , the rescue scene of Fu is jaw droppingly awful with everyone moving all together and no one even aiming anywhere near the other side . The acting is very uneven as well with Fu and the two wronged men giving good performances , and everyone else being okay but needing some time in an acting class ( I mean , since when do military people slouch ? Or wear uniforms from good will ? ) . The plot spins out in odd nonsensical directions seemingly because that was what they felt like that morning . Its a road accident of a movie thats not really worth seeing except in the same way you can't take your eyes off the carnage . And while its not a complete disaster ( there is something about the character of Fu that is intriguing ) its neither bad enough to be good nor good enough to be worth sitting through . Then again if I ever ran across it on TV and there was nothing else on I could see it again but only as a real time killer . Somewhere between 3 and .
nothing to see here	A young screenwriter who breaks up with his girlfriend goes to stay with his grandmother who he hasn't see in years . She's convinced she's dying . Across the street lives a mother with breast cancer and her three daughters . What ever ability Lawrence Kasdan has as a writer and director hasn't been passed on to his son who has made a TV movie of the week full of cliché's and almost no connection to reality . Told in mostly close ups and single shots this is a mess of a movie that feels like the construct it is . Its as if the film was assembled from what ever shots were at hand and never buffed and polished into a cohesive story . Worse is the script which seems to be about women but which as presented on the screen seems unlike any women , nay person , I've ever met . There is clearly something to the story that drew the cast to it , but at the same time the film is bungled in such away as to be little more than some disconnected pieces of a broken picture scotch taped together . Its not a train wreck , which might have made it interesting viewing . Rather its the sort of near miss that will be forgotten almost immediately .
One of the most maudlin and depressing films of the year ( This comment has SPOILERS )	( I'm going to discus the " twist " so if you don't want to know skip this and move on ) Will Smith gives an excellent performance in one of the most maudlin and WTF unnerving movies of the year . The film begins with Smith calling 911 and asking for an ambulance because some one has committed suicide . When the operator asks who it is , Smith says its himself . The movie then flashes back in a disjointed manner to tell the story of what happened to put him in the hotel bath tub filled with ice . The long and the short of it is that sometime before Smith had caused an accident while texting and driving that killed seven people . In order to make up for it Smith has decided to find seven deserving people and give them his organs . Yes this is a happy movie that makes you wonder what was Hollywood thinking . To be honest I'm not opposed to the basic plot line being used , I'm more opposed to the way the story is told . They jumble the story to keep the fact that Smith dies a " secret " . They then show Smith as he tries to pick the people he will help and deals with his guilt-which isn't fully revealed until his final moments . Its bravo for Smith as its clear he's got great acting chops . As for the director and writer I have to ask what were you thinking ? You've created a film that is almost completely depressing and terribly illogical . If nothing else why would anyone put up with the bullying and brow beating that Smith directs toward some people . I'd have told both him and his horse where to go . What really bothers me is that because of how the film is constructed the air of death hangs over the entire film . Its another sub genre of the death porn franchise . Weee ! I could go on ( I never mentioned the clichés yet ) but I won't . Needless to say this is not a favorite film for me . I'm sure this is destined for Hollywood infamy as a film of some ( ill ) repute . ( Hey as they say the best camp films are the ones that aren't made intentionally campy but end up playing that way . ) Between three and because of Will Smith's performance .
Great if you're five years old	Spoiled rich dog ends up dog napped south of the border as various celebrities provide the voices . Oh so cutesy film is better than the reviews made out , but nowhere near as good as the show stopping trailer promised ( The big musical production number trailer that preceded the films release made me very excited at the prospect of seeing the finished film ) . If I was five I probably would have loved it , but being the old guy that I am I found it passable and a reason to be thankful I don't have kids of a certain age who would play this ad nauseum . Given the option I would take a pass , something that anyone with little kids will not be able to do .
Bad	Low rent almost TV movie starring Robert Foxworth , Elke Summer , Stephanie Powers and others from TV about a man who can kill people by astrally projecting himself . He escapes from prison and the continues his evil ways . Foxworth is the cop on his trail . Its bad 1970's low budget film making where everyone no doubt did it for the pay check . ( Hey back in the 70's there were lots of tax lop holes that got some ghastly films like this made . The regrettable thing is that films were then set loose on the unsuspecting public . ) Not worth your time . For insomniacs only-even if it is in the 99 cent bin-or even if you get it for free .
After gutting the source novel the movie turns out to be just another TV movie of the week	Who did they make this film for ? The story of a romance between a werewolf and a human , in its prototypical story of mismatched cultures , is the sort of thing thats been done to death in countless films and books . If you're going to do it yet again you have to have some reason . I'm sure that using the source of a well loved , and occasionally banned young adult novel would be the perfect reason to trot out the story line yet again . Unfortunately the film makers have botched the job and we're left with a barely okay little movie . Why use a well known story if you're going to change things around ? great chunks of the book have gone missing . Worse still is the way the film has been shot . It looks more like a TV movie of the week rather than a movie to be seen in the theater , if they were going to make a movie that looks like it belongs on TV why not just release it straight to DVD ? The acting is okay but the characters are all stereotypes of stereotypes . You know whats going to happen simply because it seems to have been written that way . Its not engaging or surprising simply because once a scene starts you can tell how its going to play out , actually once the movie's basic premise is set up you'll know whats going to happen , regrettably you won't care . Not worth bothering with unless you need a lesson in how not to adapt a book for the movies .
Ho hum contemplation of sex by some good directors is dull rather than enlightening	Destricted is a collection of seven short films dealing with sex , love and pornography . The films range from about three minutes to thirty minutes . The films were made by various film makers and artists of note , regrettably the films them self are not . The best of the films is Sync , which is a three minute rapid fire sequence cut together from other films where people have sex . Its a blistering paced lust story that is a technical triumph however you slice it . The rest of the films are a pretty lackluster bunch . The best of these is possibly Gaspar Noe's 25 minute film representation of what sex really is . and is summed up by it title that appears at the end . Made with a strobing effect that is migraine inducing , it would be a great film if it ran about a third of its length since if you're clever you'll know what the punch line is . Larry Clark's half hour interview / sex film is okay but ultimately rather dull , which I think is the point . Point or not I don't need to watch a film to be bored . It would be better if it went somewhere other than into ennui . Everything else was a waste of time . Sure they all looked good , but they had no life in them . To my eyes they appeared more fake and unreal than most adult films I've run across . Unless you're fan of one of the directors ( I got suckered into seeing this because of Gaspar Noe ) I would avoid this at all costs . Its neither erotic nor thought provoking , rather its just dull .
Seuqel to Rocky Horror has great songs and some good ideas , but no script to support them . A major misfire	The sequel to Rocky Horror Picture Show is a major misfire . Unable to get a story that worked , or would work with out its " stars " since Tim Curry , Susan Sarandon and Barry Bostwick having moved on to other gigs , Richard O'Brien was forced to come up with something else . What he came up with is a spin on TV domestic life as Brad and Janet , played here by Cliff DeYoung and Jessica Harper , go on a TV show to sort out their marital strife . What transpires is the world as TV studio as the world is seen to be nothing more than a stage for the camera to film everyone and everything . The idea is sound . Heck , it was used in some variation in the Truman Show , and to a lesser degree EdTV , but here the idea never really gels . Perhaps its because everything is in a studio that film falls down , I'm not sure . Certainly its not helped by a script which only occasionally works . The movie sputters from one thing to the next with out really seeming to have a direction . The cast is mostly fine and rises above the fair at best script . Only Jessica Harper , Star of Phantom of the Paradise and Suspiria seems to falter as if unsure of the mediocre material . The best thing is the movie are the songs which are quite good and cry out for a better venue . Seeing this film again for the first time in probably 20 years was both a pleasure ( there was a reason the songs have stuck in my head , they are good ) and displeasure ( the story just doesn't work ) . Thinking back to when I saw this on a bootleg video copy in the early 1980's ( hey it was the only way to see it for the longest time ) I wasn't so wrong in thinking I had missed something , I had , I missed taking the time out to see a better movie . Rocky Horror fans should see it once just to say they have , everyone else should probably avoid it unless you want to hear some really good songs stuck in a really poor movie .
Not very good	Confused and confusing low budget film film about a female CIA agent set up to take a fall and chased around ala Jason Bourne . Formulaic and by some numbers ( Its not always clear though which numbers ) . This is the sort of film that gets palmed off to late night cable to fill in the schedule holes . Regrettably while not really bad , its the sort of thing you'd channel surf past after watching five minutes never to return because you can't pick up what going on or you think you know where its going , so whats the point . . Take a pass
Dull story and spectacular action scenes that dissolve due to a limited palate of choreography make this a disappointment and a movie best seen on cable	( This review concerns the full length version of the film and not the American version which runs 20 to 25 minutes shorter ) Tony Jaa , star of Ong Bak , is back in a rather dull action film concerning stolen elephants . The story begins as the young Tony Jaa is raising an elephant with his father for the emperor of Thailand . When Jaa has grown up the elephant and its child are brought to the big city where they are stolen and taken to Sydney Australia . Jaa follows and begins to leave a trail of broken bodies in his path to getting the elephants back . I do understand that more often than not the plot of an action movie is purely an excuse to string action scenes together , but it helps if the non action scenes are interesting and move the story along . Here while they do move the plot along they are rather dull . You don't really care as they spin out the story of Jaa's quest ( which seems to involve beating every person he meets up ) and the parallel story of a Thai cop in Sydney . It doesn't help that the cop , played by Petchtai Wongkamlao , one of my favorite Thai actors , speaks with such a heavily accent that his English is pretty much gibberish ( If the DVD I saw had subtitled everything it would have been better ) . Worse , none of the non-action scenes made me feel any sense of danger or urgency , yes there was humor but little else . They are often so dull they pretty much kill the rest of the movie . The action sequences are often stunning . The boat chase in Thailand is fantastic , if a bit fantastical . The fight scenes are often brutal but they tend to go on forever . The film has been charged with having repetitive fight sequences and despite the counter argument that there is only so many ways people can fight ( which I understand ) I have to agree with the argument that most of the action suffer from repetition . Look at the early fight scene in Sydney where Jaa breaks up a drug sale and is set upon in the tram warehouse . The fight starts and he's set upon by ever increasing numbers of fighters . First on foot , then on skates , then bikes , then motorbikes , then an ATV shows up . All seem intent on hitting him with long florescent light bulbs . Do they have any effect ? None but they keep hitting him with them because it looks cool . There seems to be a sort of loose drill as Jaa is driven to one side of the warehouse by those on foot and then back to other way by the bike , motor bike or ATV . What transpires are basically the same sequence repeated with a different vehicle or different big stunt in the middle . The larger scale action scenes are full of this machine like construction that is repetitive . The smaller sequences are also riddled with repetitive moves . Jaa will kick a bad guy repeatedly in the chest , hit him somewhere else then go back to kicking them . Its basically the same set of moves repeated in different locations . Its as if thats all Jaa can do or remember . Well not all , Jaa also will throw any bad guy through any window or pain of glass that happens to be near by . If its glass it gets broken . Its so bad that you begin take bets on which piece of glass will remain unbroken . I've seen thousands of movies over the years and rarely have I ever seen a movie repeat its fight choreography so many times as this one does . Its so bad that it basically kills any fun the action scenes provide . I really can't recommend this movie , at least for what it will cost you to see it in the movies . Sure the fights are often spectacular over come the dull script and plot , but even they become tiresome after awhile ( about half an hour in give or take a kick to the chest ) . I'd either wait for DVD where you can play around with the fight scenes to see how they're done or wait for it to show up on cable so you don't end up spending too much money on it .
Great cast done in by rotten script and direction	This movie is almost so bad it hurts . You hurt because your body goes stiff from holding a confused look on your face for way too long your muscles freeze up . This " Its okay to be who you are " tale is one of the most uneven films in memory . A sterling cast is let down by script that is obvious , soon to date , and not funny , as well as direction that hammers home every single point . Things that should put you on the floor with laughter have you shaking your head at how unfunny they are . Only the bits with Marty Scorsese have any real punch and are funny from start to finish ( And all of his scenes with De Niro are classic ) . Yes , the animation is fantastic . The work on De Niro's Don Lino is simply some of the best character animation ever put on screen and will be a yard stick for years to come . And yes , there are some funny bits , but they operate in a vacuum and so fail to provoke any real laughter . If you must see this wait for video , or better cable . This is a car wreck . .
Not much of anything	Cameron Mitchel is listed as starring in , but in fact barely appears in this story of a maniac stalking and killing women . Confused and confusing story kind of builds a little bit of suspense but to me , at the late hour I was watching it , found it more fragments of a film then something that holds together . This is the sort of film that would have been a direct to video release if it were made now . Then again I picked this up in the dollar bin so its even lower than that . I don't know what else to say other than its just sort of there . For Cameron Mitchell fans only .
Brooding action film with a high quotient of brooding and a low amount of action ( on screen )	( SPOILERS AHEAD ) Russian fantasy " actioner " ( and I use the term loosely ) that I've been trying to watch for over a year . I've finally gotten to the end and now I wish I didn't put in the repeated effort . In an effort to save two hours of your life I'm going to tell you he plot - a guy who has the ability to project a long blade out of his arm returns home to see his mom . Things turn ugly after he is beaten up by the mafia boyfriend of an old girl friend . He takes revenge on the guy when he brings the girl home . The guys mafia mom sends her men out to get revenge while the cops begin looking for him as well . Very little is said . no explanation is really given for anything ( like why they lock id girlfriend in an asylum ) and the action , for the most part is all off screen . The film essentially consists of a guy who looks like Adrian Brody looking intense and not saying anything , killing people ( off screen-most of the action happens off screen ) . It looks good , is well acted and had there been some form of reason for what is going on it might have been a good film . Hell , I would have liked some sense of real character development or back story ( all we know is that the guy was picked on as a kid ) . The movie runs the better part of two hours and it feels like its six . If they weren't going to tell us anything they could have at least picked up the pace so it seemed like it was moving too fast . No instead we get the hero on a boat . The hero in a bus , the hero walking , the hero looking disturbed . Hero with his girl . It really annoyed me since I think this could have been a good film if they had simply done something or had someone actually say something meaningful other than give instructions to " get this guy " . . Its about four hours ( all my attempts to see this ) I'll never get back . Only for those who want to see a brooding Russian action film with very little action
Its not a vampire its a turkey	This movie is painful to watch . Why didn't some one stop director Stephen Sommers and his directorial excess is beyond me . I like The Mummy and The Mummy Returns , I even like Deep Rising , which this resembles in its desire to top itself at every turn . Van Helsing , a thousands year old man who works with the Vatican is sent off to fight Dracula , his brides , werewolves and the Frankenstein monster . Its everything to excess as the filmmakers rub your nose in everything that they've stolen by referring to every damned film they've ever seen . Its awful . The opening sequence in black and white is meant to be a throw back to the Universal horror films of the 1930's and 40's , it comes off as if a bad jokey TV commercial . The next sequence of Van Helsing in Paris with Mr Hyde is clever and works , except that its a rip off of the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen in the design of Hyde . At this point , with Van Helsing returning to the Vatican the film falls into an abyss of rip off mania , the worst being the Q like monk . You know Q from James Bond ? From here its off to Dracula and its over blown over done sequence after sequence as more and more and more crap is thrown into the mix . Sommers has said that this is a film that he would have made when he was nine . Well did he have to regress himself and allow that nine year old to actually do so ? Then again I can't see any nine year old actually liking this . . . Don't get me wrong , except for Igor's make up ( which would have been bad twenty years ago ) the effects and the technical film making and some of the script ( not all ) are okay , granted the effects can shift from good to laughable but mostly they are okay . The problem is that the film doesn't have any sense holding it together . There is no sense of anything other than more is less . More is less is also true of the acting . With the sole exception of Hugh Jackman everyone over plays it . I spent most of this movie physically pained , batter by the over done nature of it and the fact that all I could help but think was " this should have been better " over and over again . You don't need to give your money to the producers on this one . Only doing so will think we want a sequel and that would be a very bad thing . Stay home and begin a stamp collection , its a much more rewarding way to spend two hours .
Incredibly Boring	Word on this was mixed , people either loved it or hated it and having watched this twice put me into the loath it group . Technically this is one of the best looking comic films ever made . My guess is that had the TV show producers had the technology they might have made something that looked like this . The fact that they didn't is a real shame since what they lacked in special effects budget they made up for in the story department . The film makers here had the opposite problem , a special effects budget but no story . The film has been praised as being deeply thoughtful . My guess is that people confuse " meaningful " silences for meaning . The vast majority of this film comes across as people looking intently not saying anything , granted its a metaphor for the inability to speak , or act , and that the Hulk is the opposite , the man of unrestrained action , or some such garbage , what ever it is its boring and there is no point trying to find deep meaning in it . The performances are flatter than the comic book . Sam Elliot is one note . Jennifer Connelly is so stiff I thought she had her Oscar give the performance . The worst is Eric Bana who is so stiff , so empty , so un-breathing that all I can do is wonder where in the hell they dug his corpse up ? I wouldn't call his performance a performance , unless you think the creations in a wax museum perform . He isn't bad , he isn't good he's just there . I screamed at one point " Will you do something ? " only to be rightfully told to shut up , after all inanimate objects don't move . Buildings and statues in the background have more personality than Bana . Much of the problem I have to lay at the feet of director Ang Lee who seems to have put together a film of discards , he got rid of everything but the silence . What was he thinking ? You can't even get lost in the action since the Hulk doesn't even show up until an hour into the movie , and then the score runs counter to any excitement the scenes might generate . I don't know what these people were thinking . What I do know is that I hope never to see this movie again .
The pieces work but nothing come together	Eddie Murphy misfire about and alien ship that looks like Eddie Murphy and is piloted by Eddie Murphy and a hundred or do other tiny people who have to find a missing orb . This should work . But it doesn't . Its not as stupid as some of the other recent Murphy films , say Norbit or Pluto Nash , but its close . Not because the jokes and material is bad as such , rather because nothing comes together the way it should . I know I liked what I saw in the trailers but what was up on the screen really annoyed me , even the good stuff from said trailer . I have a feeling this was a better script then film and cutting by the studio mucked it all up . Given a choice I'd take a pass .
Not very engaging story of police fighting saboteurs and each other	Sub-par run of the mill story about two guys in love with the same woman . . . sort of . Second billed Dick Purcell is the star of this mish mash of comedy action , romance and espionage . Purcell is a private in an island constabulary who is jealous of his friend , " Horseshoe " , who won great acclaim when he bombed a villain's hide out . There's fun and games as the two men try to out do each other . The constabulary is attempting to provide protection for the building over a dangerous swamp , however a band of bad guys wants to stop the bridge and so they move from sniping at the workers to burning down the storage shed . Its a mess as the movie doesn't know whether its serious , or a comedy or what the real plot of the film is . Its not bad so much as unengaging , which is a shame since this movie really looks good and has a wonderful old Hollywood sense of place . But to be honest 15 minutes in I lost interest and while the DVD ran to the end I wasn't much paying attention . If I ran across it on TV and there wasn't anything else on I'd try it again , but other than that this is a well made misfire .
The central character annoyed the heck out of me .	Story of a spoiled rich kid who begins to sell Ritalin and advice to the student body of his new high school . In doing so he begins to find himself and his life . What you think of the film will depend on what you think of Anton Yelchin as Bartlett . To some he's a charming rogue , to me he comes off as an insufferable twit in the same way that Frank Albertson could be annoying in the B movies of the 1930's and 40's . I found him abrasive and had an impossible time getting through the film . To be certain the film is witty but with out a central character you care about all the clever lines in the world will fall flat , which was what happened here . In all honesty give me Juno any day .
More of the same	Lar Von Trier picks up after Dogville as the characters drive across country and end up at a plantation where slavery is still in bloom . Deciding to to stay Bryce Howard ( Nichole Kidman previously ) tries to better things and soon finds out that things were better left alone . Intriguing to look at this is simply more of the same . While I enjoyed Dogville ( except for the length ) this was a chore to get through . Its not bad but more of the same with almost nothing new added . I've better things to do than watch a warmed over version of the earlier film . Sign its un-involving - I took a phone call in the middle of it and didn't stop the film - I sped it up .
Despite the monsters , gunfire and explosions this film is certain to put you to sleep	I have to say that I'm not a Uwe Boll fan . I disliked his House of the Dead so much its on my worst of all time list . That film is a film of bad choices and missed opportunities that could have amounted into a good B horror film . Uwe's at it again here with a film that is even more confusing because on the face of it it should have worked , he put many of the right things together but somehow made one of the dullest films I've ever seen . Its so bad that I had to fight to become awake enough to stand up and walk out of the theater . Guns are going off , things are blowing up , monsters are attacking , people are running and screaming and the audience is sleeping . Part of the problem is that the cast didn't so much phone in their performances rather they hired cardboard cut outs to do it for them . There is no life in anything they do . They don't care about whats going on so we don't either . This is a movie for those who want to sleep and for no one else . . . well maybe those needing to see every movie monster ever created , but no one else . . Better than expected , but so painfully boring as to be unwatchable ( simply because you will be sleeping )
Great cast wasted in a nonsensical mystery turkey of a movie . Its just not worth the time .	Detective Jerry Church returns of Rio after a year and immediately finds himself embroiled in the Dr Rx murders . It seems that some one is killing off the high profile defendants that have been acquitted and leaving a note signed Rx and a number . As the sixth victim falls , in the court room seconds after being acquitted Church finds himself pressed by the police to aide them as well as the defense attorney responsible for most of the acquittals ( he fears the end to his career because who would hire him if you win only to die ? ) . Sounds like a promising mystery ? Well forget it its not . Its a mystery looking for some one to pay attention to it . This film is mostly concerned with Church , played a bit too cocksure by Patrick Knowles , and his relationship with Kit , a one time girlfriend who becomes his wife in the second scene she appears . She's a mystery writer who bugs his apartment for ideas . They bicker and quarrel and would be an interesting update on Nick and Nora Charles if they had a ( better ) script . The mystery comes and goes and is never really solved . In all honesty this film is a turkey . How can I tell ? Because out of left field Church is tied to a gurney by a hooded villain who tries to use a gorilla in a cage to get rid of the detective . Normally I would find this fun , but here it just destroys any notion of credibility ( and probably the series they were hoping to start ) . This is a bad bad movie . The only reason to watch this is the cast that includes Knowles , Montan Moreland , Lionel Atwill ( a red herring with maybe five minutes of screen time ) and Shemp Howard . The scene of Howard and Moreland gambling for a bottle of liquor is amusing . for the cast and some witty dialog . This is a movie thats not worth your time - even if it is only an hour .
Some great images can't save a poor remake	This is a remake of the Japanese Kairo , which for me is one of the scariest movies of all time . The story is about a how breach between this world and the next is allowing the ghosts to pass over . Both scrupulously faithful to and painfully dismissive of the original film ( it either copies scenes verbatim or short circuits them by going in odd directions ) this is a film thats neither fish nor fowl . It refuse to be a shot for shot remake but doesn't have the ability to break free of the source and do something unique . The film also comes off as a cliff notes version running some thirty five minutes shorter than the original Japanese film with no real reason since the film is such a close copy . Clearly this is one of those periodic films that ( re ) writer / producer Wes Craven puts out that makes people wonder why he has such a great reputation . Things aren't helped by the cast which comes off as more than a bit whiny and vapid , speaking lines that never are clearly not coming from their brains . On the plus side the film does possess some great visuals thanks to the need to spell out what was only implied in the original . ( If you're looking for images from the trailer be warned that several of them do not appear since they were stolen outright from the original film for sequences in the trailer that do not appear in the finished film . ) Unless you are a student of horrific images this is a film to avoid .
unpleasant in the worst way	Another bad things happen to people who go to foreign lands picture . Here some tourists in Brazil end up running for their lives when they decide not to wait for the next bus after the bus they are on goes over a cliff . Good looking but a strong case of been there and done that with characters that simply seem to be fodder for the second half brutality . Ultimately an ugly movie that has angered the Brazilian government so much the actors have been apologizing in interviews . I'm annoyed by this since those of us who have actually seen the film are the true victims ( of course I'm guessing no one in Brazil actually saw this film since odds are there would be death warrants out for everyone connected to it ) . I can't readily rate the film since its so unpleasant as to make me not want to watch
Not very good nor original	Scifi action film about a cop investigating murders tied to the death of his partner . All roads lead to a weird institute where weird experiments involving memory are taking place . Its a been there and done that sort of a film , especially if you watch any number of dystopian scifi films . What strikes me as kind of sad was that the film often feels like its standing in front of you waving at you in a pathetic attempt to make you think you haven't seen this before . The film's case cover mentions that the action sequences were from the person responsible for the action in the Bourne films , and that maybe the case but the director doesn't shoot it with any sense of Bourne's style and the result is further boredom . Not worth your time .
Dumb	Turkey of a film . A Filipino fantasy film about the quest for pearls on a secret island where a bunch of bug eyed islanders ( when you see them you'll start laughing and want to turn it off ) are ruled by a beautiful blond who looks normal . The cast includes Patrick Wayne and Sid Haig and is so silly and stupid that its almost enjoyable . Almost . Its a trash film that you'll either love of hate . I'm going to bet on hate , which is a shame since the cast is good and the crew behind the camera is responsible for the Blood Island films as well as many other good exploitation films . If you get a chance to see this , take a pass , there are better films out there .
Bad taste comedy about Hitler and the rise of the Nazi's is not particularly funny , but worth a look for those who like very off beat or bad movies	What is this movie ? Its a weird weird comedy styled as a documentary about the rise of Adolf Hitler as well as the story of two brothers , one a magician and Nazi , the other an anarchist anti Nazi . It uses old footage , new footage and the mix of the two to create a bizarre , occasionally clever , but never laugh out loud funny comedy . Frankly this is one of those so bad its okay films ( good would be pushing it ) . The jokes run the gamut from clever , but not really funny to potentially offensive ( dog concentration camps ) but not really funny . Much of it is obvious to anyone who's seen any World War Two comedies spoofing Hitler . Its broadly played to mixed effect . The problem with the film is that the gags take forever to get to a punchline . It will be two or three minutes of not very funny set up for a joke that isn't funny . . . at least not in the way it was intended . ( you laugh at the film not with it . ) The poor structure of the film makes the film drag in the second half since it simply becomes the same slow paced set-up / punchline over and over again ( and is so awful they had to create a couple of lovers separated by the war to help string out our attention ) . Its a film to laugh at not with . I can't really recommend this film to most people , however if you like bad films , puny films or strange " what were they thinking " movies , I'd give it a look with the understanding that this is really at the edge of being a " watchable " film . ( The print of this film I saw bore the title ' Loggerheads " and was dubbed into English and had Greek subtitles )
Unreal characters and cliché handling of events will make you not care	Don Cheadle once again proves he's better than the material in this misfire about a man reconnecting with his college room mate . The room mate , played by Adam Sandler is a shell of his former self , reduced to wandering the streets since took his wive and children . Clearly well meaning this movie is alien in its relationships and motivations . No real person speaks and acts the way many of the characters do . Its all artificial as if in crafting a movie that would offend almost no one they crafted the life out of it . Think 1950's drama with a modern " edge " Its not bad as such , just nowhere near good enough to bother with . . . or keep watching . And this brings up a question - is it too early for to be a cliché ? yet again we have another grieving survivor haunted by the last things said . Is this now to be the the way to go ? It seems like every movie or play has some sort of reference to it . I can't believe that we're finally starting to deal with the event in popular culture and we've already driven right into the rut of cliché
Boring .	Monica Bellucci adopts a young Asian child . Years later Bellucci begins having nightmares and someone or something seems to be interested in her son , who it appears has a great hidden power . I love the idea of Bellucci and Catherine Deneuve in a movie together . I only wish the pairing wasn't in a movie as dull as this . Its a been there and done that film ( I mean how many films are there where the adoptive parents didn't know their kid was special ? ) that has nothing new to offer . Its such an " exciting " film and I was so " intrigued " by what was happening that I didn't bother to finish the film when the DVD I wigged out and wouldn't play , I simply put it into the returns slot and let someone else deal with it . I'm guessing that thats whats been happening all along with that particular copy of the DVD . Don't run the risk of getting the bad DVD thats floating around , don't see this film . A snoozer .
Remake exists in a twilight world of originality and pure copy never manages to find its own voice , the result is really bad movie movie with a few great moments	Remake / rethink of the classic John Carpenter film is a mistake . Granted in these days of redone 1970's horror classics and not so classics a remake ( after 7 sequels ) was inevitable , but however this got made it shouldn't have . It's too unreal to ever work and too referential of the original to ever not be compared . I'm hoping that Zombie was forced to do the film a certain way by the money men since I would hate to think that the man who gave us House of 1000 corpses and Devil's Rejects made some of the choices we see here . The problems here start with the rethought idea of Myers as a chunky fat kid with long hair . It continues on with his foul mouthed white trash parents who's steady stream of profanity was such I have to think its a bad joke . Shall I go on to the anachronistic settings and props that mix time periods ( and when is this suppose to begin anyway ? ) By the time Michael goes home we have about an hour to compress the events of the original , which then gets told in speedy fashion . Ultimately , as many have said , and as Thomas Harris found out about Hannibal Lechter , the whole idea of explaining the evil takes away the terror . What really annoys the hell out of me is that as bad and as lazy the narrative restructuring is the individual sequences are top notch . In all seriousness some of the sequences where Michael kills are dynamite . The stabbing death of his older sister is frightening ( and whats with that little shape . Creepy ) and the escape from the basement by Laurie is masterful frenetic film making . Actually most of the killings are mini masterpieces that regrettably have no gallery to properly show them in . Once again its clear that Rob Zombie is a director to be reckoned with , just so long as he can go his own way . ( And I have to say its great to see all the great 1970's name b-movie actors once more ) . Not really worth bothering with , this is at best 3 or 3 . . Recommended only for those who want to see some fleeting moments of really cool film making in an otherwise crappy film .
Moments of brilliance in an other wise dull film	This is another collection of clips from nitrate films spanning from 1905 to about 1912 that were found in a cinema in Denmark . Grouped together in subjects ( LOOKING is a series of shots " through " telescopes or binoculars , DRAMATIS PERSONAE is introductory shots of actors , CHILDREN is self explanatory , DYING is the death of Christ in a religious film . ) that sort of kind of has the structure of a film . The whole thing ends with GOODBYE which was scenes from a religious film on the Garden of Eden that has been all but obliterated by the decay of the film . With in the film there are some hypnotic travel films , a wonderful series of shots of a railway that runs on tracks over the cars and what maybe the only surviving snippets of a woman named Lydia Borelli who is a stunning beauty and seemingly great actress . The problem is that the film doesn't add up to much . To be certain the film has some stunning pieces , and at times the marriage of image and music transcend the whole and become something special , but for the most part the sequences are simply a series of disconnected shots grouped together . The effect is sleep inducing and aside for the odd moment or piece of film I was bored to tears . Decasia , another film that uses nitrate film for different effect ( all of the footage there is decaying resulting in an almost alien landscape ) is much better since its use of decay forces you to work with the film
Even as a time capsule this film is dull and unfunny	The plot has adult film star Linda Lovelace running for President as the only person the leaders of a political party could agree on . She goes on the campaign trail in a film that is full of political and social commentary humor , not to mention jokes of the lowest denominator . The film-making is poor . its the sort of scatter shot " lets make a movie " with grade C stars and comedians running about in jokes that are best described a vaudeville or burlesques last gasp . Its the sort of film that is similar to Groove Tube , Loose Shoes , American Raspberry or Kentucky Fried Movie , except as a political campaign . The problem is the material , that which isn't old to begin with , isn't very good . To be certain some of the material is funny in a one off sort of way but mostly is just stupid . The sad thing is that Lovelace actually comes off a pretty good screen actress . certainly she's more real than many of todays adult film stars who try to cross over into mainstream films . Its a shame she never had the chance to do something more than be infamous . Supposedly this exists in 3 different cuts PG , R and X . The version I saw had the X rating attached to the end , though most of the offensive material was some language , soft core sex and nudity and I seriously doubt it would get an X or NC-17 today . Nothing is exciting in any sense of the word . Its bland . its dull . Its ( mostly ) unfunny . Its a turkey
Not much of anything	The title of the film refers to the low life dwellers of streets ( cops , prostitutes , crooks ) who cling on to the edges of society . Set in a city slum the film deals with a less then clean cop and the people he comes in contact with including a prostitute and a young girl , who dreams of being rescued by a prince . Striving to be something deep and meaningful the film fell flat for me . The rapid fire , hand held style may have kept things moving and allowed for the film to be shot in close quarters but at the same time the camera moves so much and the cuts are so rapid that its hard to get a handle on what your watching , or in some cases I wasn't sure who was who with most of the characters blending together ( not because they look the same more that we never really get a good look at some of them ) . I really didn't care about anyone and it made getting through this film a real chore . Its not a bad film as such , but its the first film in a long while where I feel that it wasn't worth the effort to see it or to pick it up ( or even review it ) . In a weird way its kind of like the title lichen , something that dwells in the corner and isn't worth your attention .
George Carlin is the only reason to see this	What happened to Kevin Smith ? This is terrible . At least when he made a bad film it was watchable , this is just a mess . Ben Affleck finds , marries and lose Jennifer Lopez and in the process is left with a little girl to raise . The movie mostly concerns how he is forced to find balance between career and family while learning to live again . Sounds promising ? So do many other movies that go down in flames . This is a film of pieces that work , pieces that don't and the inability to put them all together . The script is incredibly uneven with many " funny " lines that fall flat . The acting is fine but characters don't seem to belong to this movie , Liv Tyler , who is good , seems to be from a movie next door . George Carlin is beyond good . He's a real crotchety old guy who loves his son and his grand daughter and tells it like it is . To watch how he's grown as an actor since Outrageous Fortune is wonderful . Its a sad thing that he'll probably be forgotten come Oscar time . This movie was a head shaking experience . Kevin Smith , who usually can come up with good dialog is mostly flat here . Granted his " point and shoot " style of shooting a film is gone , but it seems to have taken with it the ability to tell a story . I give it simply because moments are very good - Carlin , the grade school Sweeney Todd , and a few other bits , but none of it really hangs together . Avoid this if you can .
Run the slow movie giant crayfish are coming	Edited version of the serial Panther Girl of the Congo really doesn't work . Partly because many of the later Republic serials were too by the numbers to be much of anything but cutting the 12 chapters down to under 100 minutes cut what little life was in the story out . The plot has the title character , given the name because she slew a panther that had been terrorizing a native village , taking on a mad scientist out for diamonds and using giant crayfish to scare the natives . Even by giant monster movie standard this movie is a mess with the giant crustaceans being more comical in their ponderously slow motion then menacing . Whats worse is the always seem to learn to one side seemingly drunk . Its a not very good version of a not very good serial making for even worse entertainment .
Despite Christopher Lee and Klaus Kinski a weak Edgar Wallace adaptation	Yet another film in the long running cycle of Edgar / Bryan Wallace films that flowed out of Germany in the 1960's and early 1970's . This time the story concerns a blackmailer who threatens very rich men with death if they don't pay up . The bodies of those that don't pay are dumped in front of Scotland Yard . As with many of these films its a bit confusing at first with several plot threads wandering through the story ( Chicago gangsters , FBI agent , the blackmail scheme ) before coming together at the end . Unfortunately this really isn't a story where its worth seeing how it all comes together . The plot is more than a bit unfocused , even by this series standards , There are too many characters and too much comedy so that the film fails to be compelling . My unhappiness with the film could be the result of the English dub which has even Christopher Lee and Klaus Kinski dubbed by other actors who's vocal performances don't even approximate how Lee or Kinski would have done it themselves . The result is that you never really buy whats going on screen . Certainly this would be perfect if you stumbled on it at 2am on late night TV , but I would be hard pressed to suggest actually renting or buying this on DVD and putting it on willingly .
A few creepy moments are lost in a movie with a nonsensical plot , non-actors , and video game video effects	Gô Naga's comic story comes to the big screen in a big mess of a live action film . If it were enough to survive on looks alone then this might have had a snowballs chance in hell , but as it stands now this is a movie thats tough viewing . Where do I start ? The plot is whats best described as episodic . Telling the story of two friends who are become changed when a scientific experiment goes wrong and demon energy comes into our world . One becomes " Satan " the other becomes Devilman , a demon with a human heart . There are other demons on the loose , many hiding in human form and they go about killing and eating any human they find . The remaining humans fight back and a war between the demons and the humans ensues , which becomes a war between nations . As Devilman battles his friend and humans and demons battle each other it looks like its the end of the world . The simplicity with which I recounted the plot is misleading since the story makes no sense except on the simplest of levels . Things happen and are important until they are not . We learn of the creation of the demons in such a way that makes you think you've missed something . Who are these scientists ? There is a newscaster giving news reports in English in the middle of a Japanese language film . We are given endless scenes of goofy soldiers in white suits and gas masks shooting people they think are demons . An old lover of Devilman's demon side shows up for no reason but to have a fight . Events take a global turn except only to suddenly end up back in Japan . Characters come and go and we have no idea who they are , even though they seem to be important . Nothing holds together . The two leads are awful . Apparently they are non-actors , having made their mark a J-Pop idols . They should stay in the music field . They stand and stare . They walk or run then stand and stare some more . Mostly they look stoned . I've never seen a movie where the leads looked so completely fried outside of Dennis Hopper's Last Movie , certainly I've never seen a movie where the leads were so fried that they couldn't at least phone in a performance . They have no personality . Worse the kid who becomes Devilman is quite ugly for an idol and one makes you wonder why he was chosen to star . The effects are from a bad video game or from some of those low budget animated series . The design is good but for the most part they never drop into the world of the film , they are forever outside of it . At times the fights between demons shows its manga / anime origins by using the frozen image that artists use to produce an effect of action on a limited animation budget . It doesn't work here and just produces laughs as the two demons in question suddenly become statues instead living objects . its a WTF moment . I won't go into the makeup effects which are even worse , as spiky bones act like comes of latex rubber . And yet there is some good things in it . There are some nice designs , Devilman , his demonic lover and Satan all look great , at least in theory . The designs were what attracted me to the movie in the first place , and had they not been as good as they are I would not have even bothered with the film . The reaction of the frighten crowds is quite good , even if there is no logic , other than the need to move the story , for most of what they do . And there are some genuinely creepy moments such as the last moments of people's consciousness showing up on the back of the demon that ate them , or the weird eyes of the father of a little boy who doesn't know his dad has been taken over . These moments are sad because you get the sense of just how good this movie really could have been . I can't really recommend this movie . It's one of those annoying films that could have worked but doesn't so sinks to the bottom of the pile . They actually got some things right , but the fact that the leads , the story and to a lesser extent the effects don't work destroy this films hopes . ( Though if you study film visuals , then you might want to look , if you can see it for free ) A sad major misfire .
Poor cop comedy / action film	Stupid cop comedy about two hot shot guys who are assigned to the " action squad " of the police force . They are would be romeos and they are uneasy about the woman assigned to be their boss . Vanity project for one of the stars ( he also directed ) who I never heard of , this is a badly made movie with bad " jokes " , poor action sequences ( its all the same fights and chases over and over again ) and only the desire to show how cool and cute the star / director is . It looks more like the home home movie of a couple of cocky kids making a movie to show off for the neighbors . If it was funny or had anything approaching real action it might have worked , but its all posturing and rather dull A perfect example of poor film-making .
A mess , though the pieces are much better then the whole	Kid found as a baby in the garbage and raised at a martial arts academy has a knack for sinking baskets . With the help of the man who found him he gets in to college and is promoted to the championship as he searches for his real parents . Infinitely better in pieces action comedy is a real mess as a whole . It seems to be striving for a hipper basketball version of Shaolin Soccer , but the comedy is scatter shot , its focus wanders more than a Chihuahua with ADD on quadruple espresso . I kept asking " What am I watching " . I watched it from start to finish and I still don't know what the hell happened . Its a shame since there are some great action scenes , some amusing jokes and the occasional moment , but nothing , none of it ever comes together , I'd take a pass .
The English version is too badly dubbed and so too confused to amount to much	Nikolai Gogol's story " Viy " has been filmed again and released to home video in the US via Faith Films . The original story concerns a priest who has to watch over the body of a witch with only his faith to protect him . Greatly expanded and set in America , though clearly filmed in Russia ( the houses , clothing and furnishing are all wrong despite the English signs ) , this is an odd film that doesn't really work . Part of it is the weird setting that tries very hard to be backwoods America but clearly isn't . There are also some weird , intentionally oblique moments as the main character being a reporter at the start and a priest a short time later . I'm not sure why they did that , even after watching the making of piece on the DVD ) The other problem is the dubbing which is beyond awful . Its done in such away that everyone speaks when their lips are not on camera - or if they are the voices don't even remotely match the lip flaps . I don't know if its Faith Films fault or that of the producers who made the film hoping to dump into the West ( revealed in the making of piece ) . The film isn't very good . As I've said it has all sorts of technical issues that just make this an odd ball curio . Despite some really good looking horror images the film never works as a horror film . As film to engender faith its much too confused in this retelling to amount to make anyone feel anyone closer to god . Given the choice I'd give it a pass , even at a bargain bin price . My advice would be to find the 1960's version of the tale called Viy which will bring both some shivers and some understanding about a belief in god .
Awful	Indonesian ( ? ) jungle film about a hidden tribe on a hidden island that revolts against a god sent leader . Of course a film crew shows up to film them and the " leader : and her band of warriors have to come to their rescue or some such nonsense . Its bad and awful and not in a good way . I lost patience very fast and while I think I might try it again I don't think anyone else should . The performances are poor ( I wouldn't blame the dubbing ) , the action isn't very good and there are simply too many WTF moments for any sane mind to take in . I like bad movies but this is almost too much to endure , even if you make fun of it as it goes on .
Low budget tale of human smuggling has much to recommend it to the " bad film " lover , however pacing makes it a slow tough haul to get through	( This may contain a few spoilers ) Socialite who likes to gamble gets mixed up with gangsters smuggling Chinese over the border from Mexico . Jaw droppingly inept this is a movie that even bad movie lovers will have a hard time sitting through . The problem is not that its so bad as to be bad , rather its because its so badly paced that its really really dull . Filled with fake sets , fake facial hair , racist attitudes , bizarre actions and dialog with a high " huh ? " factor , this is a movie that bad movie lovers can sit and watch and make fun of , assuming they can stay awake . Rarely have I seen a movie where I mumbled " I can't believe they did that " over and over again . It begins almost at the outset where a police patrol plane begins to strafe the smugglers plane with machine gun fire even though it suspects it has people hidden in it , continues as the smuggling pilot remedies the situation and then goes on from there . What were these people thinking ? A unique viewing experience certainly , but not one I need to repeat or one I can recommend . If you like bad movies give it a shot , but be warned you may not make it to the end with out snoozing .
Its not even worth seeing for the music	Guy from the Bronx wants to be a hip-hop star , however he's forced to flee to Puerto Rico when he has a run in with some bed guys . Generally it isn't a good sign when the selling point is that a film is produced by a movie star , in this case Jennifer Lopez . Done on the cheap I kept wondering why they couldn't get more money for a better cast and crew . The film is okay , but never really connected with me since its so specifically of a place and life style it fails to click as a story or larger importance . Whats worse is the music isn't very good , which is something I rarely say about urban dramas such as this . Its so abrasive and unremarkable that you don't want to watch the film simply so you won't hear the music .
Other Worldly Dubbing	This is the biblical tale of Judith saving her people . The version of this film I saw seemed to be dubbed on an alien planet with voices only matching lips rarely . The dub is so awful as to hurt an already leadenly paced film . A grade school version I once saw moved better . Avoid unless in need of sleep .
Good Looking Dud	Good looking spectacle with a cast of tens . You can see that actors are playing both sides in what amounts to a Euro-western set in the ancient world . Its Etruscans vs Romans with the woman taken hostage after they dressed as Roman soldiers after their side lost . The dialog is stupid and the romances wobble any hope of a decent story . Its the kind of film that almost seems good but isn't so seems much worse as a result . I've seen it twice by accident and I hope never to see it again .
Some good location work and a unique monster can't make up for a dreadful plot and terrible production	1930's sleep inducer about a sailing ship taking a side trip to find a native son of its home port who may be still alive on island in the south seas . They find the man and also battle the title monster which is a giant manta ray . Pure soap opera and hokum that gets points for the early scenes of a harbor full of sailing ships , some location shots of things that have now passed into history and for a giant manta ray as a monster , but the soap opera is terrible and trying to watch it last night I did the same thing I did when I taped this off cable a decade and a half ago-I fast forwarded through a good chunk of it . The unique visuals are a reason to see this , however only on scan . Only for those wishing for a good nights sleep .
The only mystery is how one stays awake	The mental break down of a ships captain happens about the same time a means of remotely steering ships comes into existence . The Captain is locked away and escapes just as a murder is committed . And the audience snores . This is one of the dullest movies I've ever seen . Its a sure cure for insomnia even for small yappie dogs on triple espresso . This is just boring . . . really really boring and should I go to hell it will be a movie theater I can't leave that plays this movie for eternity . Amazingly I find I can't give it a because its not bad , its just dull , which somehow isn't the same thing . I don't know why , but I gave it a three , probably because its such a good sleep aid that it does serve some cosmic purpose . Even so I wouldn't want to ever see it again .
Major Misfire	This return to Neverland was suppose to be a small scale film that writer Nick Castle was going to direct himself . Spielberg came across the script and then proceeded to toss huge sums of money to get the right to direct it , and then to make one of the most wrong-headed films ever made . The plot concerns a grown-up Peter Pan who has forgotten Neverland . Hook seeking to get a revenge on his enemy kidnaps his kids and forces Peter to try to remember who he was . This is proof that with out real vision all of the money in the world won't help you . It also proves that Spielberg's is a limited director . I could rip this film to shreds but will restrain myself by only sighting one or two major mistakes . First are the lost boys , who are skateboarding punk kids from the early 1990's . This should be a timeless tale and Spielberg in order to go for the kid audience instantly dates the film . Spielberg is a pop culture junkie and all of his films are riffs on other films . That can only take you so far with out dating your films and here his need to be now badly wounds the film . Julia Roberts , while nice in theory , is completely wrong as Tinker Bell . Even with movie magic she just looks wrong as Peter's oldest friend . Worse the role as written isn't as feisty as she was in the original novel . The best thing in the film , and probably the one thing they got right , was Dustin Hoffman as Hook . He chews the scenery and then some and should probably won the Oscar for his role . Given the choice I would never watch this film again which left me crying in my seat as I became more and more heart broken with each missed chance to make a classic ( or even a decent film . ) See PJ Hogan's Peter Pan instead , thats a classic , this isn't .
Pretentious sleaze	A group of people come together and talk about transgressive sexual subjects . This is inter-cut with often graphic sex scenes involving rape , torture , bestiality , lesbianism , masturbation and other subjects you may or may not be able to think of . I will freely admit that not being able to really speak Italian with any real ability put me at a disadvantage since a good portion of the film consists of heated discussion . Yet somehow I think that had I been able to really understand what was being said I probably would have rated this lower than a three its its filmed in a very pretentious way . My annoyance with the film comes from the feeling that the film makers wanted to make a REALLY dirty movie and felt that the only way to do it was turn it into a political or sociological discussion . I did not find it deep or meaningful , but rather dull and boring in a " thats nice dear " sort of way . Ultimately the movie fails to be erotic because its too arty and fails to be meaningful because its too smutty . I'd let this one be unless you'd really like to see a few " taboo " fetishistic subjects portrayed in some rather awkward scenes .
The re-cut version is a mess . Of interest only for Lugosi .	( This review is of the edited version combining parts one and two ) Early film appearance of Bela Lugosi shows none of his on screen power that would make him an international star 10 years later . The plot has something to do with a Lugosi as a French Millionaire in love with a performer who is really a Russian revolutionary , or some such nonsense . Its doesn't make any real sense under the best of circumstances as the film has all sorts of flashbacks as to everyone's back story that only confuse things since the sets all seem to be the same set reused for different stories . This film is a mess . I don't think its just that this was welded together from a two part film , I just think it's a mess , I mean why else would there be the story of the volcano rising up in Russia . As for the real reason anyone looks at this film , Lugosi is clearly ill at ease . His eyes dart around and he seems unsure of what to do in front of the camera . Its an interesting start to a career , but not really a reason to watch this dull mess of a movie .
The Force is Still Not With It	The continuation of the star Wars saga proves dramatically ( plot wise ) better than the previous film , but is even more wooden and stiff than before . George Lucas simply can not direct , he never could and never will be able to turn out anything other than an okay film . Fortunately for him , that one okay film , Star Wars , has been paying his bill for years . Lucas seems to think that bigger is better on every level so he cranks things up an extra fifteen notches thanks to the leap frog jumps in digital technology . Lucas has now built his entire movie against a blue screen which he fills with many wonderful sights . The locations and the designs are indeed wonderful , the problem is that in a year that brought Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter , Lucas ' special effects are far from special since its the one film of the three where you know instantly where the real people end and their animated versions begin . The animation in this film is some of the worst computer variety ever put into a film with a budget this big . The failure of the visual effects keeps pulling you out of the story especially when its so badly acted by everyone on screen with the exception of Christopher Lee , Samuel Jackson and Yoda . Star Wars as a franchise effectively died with the previous film and despite the occasional flash of life in this one its best to pull a sheet over its head and mourn the loss of a cultural icon .
Reminded me of the sort of art film that people used to use as examples of why people don't like art films	Henri Balzac's tale of a general and a Duchess who fall in love but mostly never do anything other than pine for each other . Showing on IFC in Theaters I made it through about 40 minutes of this before I turned it off . Beautiful to look at this slow and meandering tale struck me as the sort of " art " film of my youth that was held up as the reason more people don't like " art " films . It's deep and brooding and very silly . Its more the type of thing you make fun of then enjoy . The film begins at the end when the soldier visits a cloistered nunnery and sees the Duchess one more time . It struck me as such an ending that nothing needed to follow it , but the movie cranks on from there flashing back five years to when it all started . I'm sure that had I not read the reviews that gave away little plot points I might have hung in there but the thought of being stuck for two and a half hours with such silly people was too much to bear . Clearly I didn't like it
Possibly the blandest , most by the book romance I've ever seen	Man and woman meet at a supermarket . they hit it off . They are going along for awhile until there is a misunderstanding so she runs off to New Zealand with a great guy who loves her . Old boyfriend follows , who will she go with ? Poor romance is so artificial as to be some new form of plastic . Its so clear from the opening seconds how this is going to go that there is no reason to watch the 100 minutes that follow . You really have to have a need to see every romance ever made to waste your time seeing this film . Don't get me wrong , its not bad , its just so buy the book and so by rote that there is no surprise in anything . ( And there's no chemistry between the leads but thats another matter ) .
Mediocre film of a mediocre play	After a war on a far off Island is won women are recruited to come be with the soldiers and help set up a new colony . Of course things don't go right . Based on a play by Jeff Noon , best known for the Vurt novels , this is a mediocre film based on a mediocre play . I'm a huge fan of Jeff Noon's writing but I really don't like the play since it feels much too obvious for what it is . You can feel the film's heart on its sleeve as it criticizes the Falkland's war , the military and male female relationships in a macho environment . It's all much too obvious . I would take a pass if you come across it unless your a fan of the cast which includes Guy Pearce , Ray Winstone and Emily Lloyd .
Major misfire with too much going on . Only comes alive in sporadic moments	Major misfire from Will Smith concerning a superhero with a drinking problem who decides to redo his image of destruction . Based on what many have considered a great script " Tonight He Comes " ( which I haven't read but which I've read about ) this is a movie with some really good ideas , which after bobbling them for an hour drops them as they add another 15 to the mix . The idea is that its lonely being a superhero and that one would eventually begin to drink because one was all alone . Drink causes problems as does anger problems - usually resulting in millions of dollars in insurance claims . The idea is rather clever and its one thats been used before in better films like Superguy : Behind the Cape a pseudo-documentary about the problems of being a superhero . Its a good idea as I said and there are moments here where they pull it off but its only in the odd moment and every now and again . ( even if there are tons of unanswered logic problems ) Which is fine for the first hour where the jokes and the effort to put something together comes across as an okay time filler ( which I hated to spend money on-at its best this is a cable flick ) . The trouble is that about an hour into the movie it begins to add in plot points that come out of left field . First there is a twist that plays out badly over the next half hour then a major plot development occurs that drives the film to its conclusion . In that last half hour enough plot for at least another 90 minutes is set up and the rushed through . Of course the twists are so WTF that with in the context of the film that as it stands now that the film completely falls on its face . I kept wanting to reach for the remote to jump to the end ( curse the movie theater experience ) . There is a good story in there somewhere but someone-probably several someones - botched the film . ( I read there were lots of rewrites and passes through the editing suites ) A perfect example of how not to make a movie by committee ( and will probably be on my worst of the year list for that reason ) . a final ( despite some early moments and great lines ) This kind of skirts the PG13 and R border . I thought it was R until I saw other wise . Frankly its probably more R then PG13 thanks to language and violence
Laughably bad . Watch it with friends who have quick wits	Laughably bad women in prison / escape / revenge flicks . Made in Hong Kong with an allegedly Anglo Saxon crew ( I somehow doubt that ) , this tells the story of a group of women who get hauled off to a Hong Kong Prison , escape and then go after some of the people who got them into trouble . Poorly dubbed the film is as cheap as they come ( hey they didn't even hire a black actress but have a Chinese girl in black face and wig playing the part . ) There is no nudity , clearly feigned violence ( the shootings at the end will have you on the floor laughing ) . As an actual honest to god watchable movie this film is awful . As a film to watch with friends with the intention of picking it apart its pretty good . ( I would have loved to have seen this at a Times Square theater with a vocal audience . )
The idea is good . the execution interesting . the result is a pretentious mess	A gambler just released from prison takes a game with a mob boss who never loses because everyone is afraid of him . He wins big and then has to accept help from two loan sharks with an agenda of their own . ( or something like that . ) Form over content from Guy Ritchie . Either you accept this head trip Kabbalah based mess for what it is or you use the DVD as a frisbee . Much maligned film is an interesting attempt but ultimately its a con game on Ritchie's part to think that the audience for his earlier films would put up with this sort on nonsense . To be honest its fair to say that nothing is as it seems . To be fair I like what its trying to do , but think its a mess because the lines between whats possible and what is never really line up ( and I won't say more since if you do see this you'll be better off getting slapped with this cold fish . )
Odd setting makes the film seem unreal	Brightly lit ( ? ) old dark house . . . er . . . well monastery pretending to be an inn thriller from Spain , where someone is out to get a cache of money and kills a number of people to make sure he gets it . Odd in away that Spanish thrillers from the 1960's are ( the basement seems to be filled with vats filled with fog for no good reason ) . Everyone and everything seems to be just a bit off . It doesn't help that the setting doesn't feel right , it was filmed in a monastery that doesn't remotely feel like an inn with the result that all the interiors feel completely false . I had this on very late last night ( it was the last film in an all night movie marathon ) and I drifted in an out on it not caring that I missed anything . I did see the ending which seemed as false as the rest ( actually the film finally began to come together in the final moments but the sting in the tail seemed tacked on ) . I think the strive to be different and the odd this isn't really the place its suppose to be setting worked against the film .
There are times I miss commercials and station breaks this is one of them .	This is the story of a man who is hit in the head with a meteor and there after turns into a lizard like killer when the moon comes out . The authorities are stumped however the Indians may have an answer that will save the man and the mankind . Before cable and the take over of local TV by pretend TV networks this movie was on New York in what seemed like eternal rotation . It played pretty much at anytime of day depending upon when the programmers had a whole in their schedule . I saw this more times than I care to imagine as a result . It always struck me a clunky monster film that would make more sense if there we're cuts and commercials . Well thanks to DVDs I can honestly say I wish that I had the commercials back . Seeing this film in its uncut glory is a test of endurance . Not a whole heck of a lot happens and what does happen isn't that interesting . Sure there is a monster , but thats about all this film has going for it as people tend to talk more than they do . Its painful viewing thats sure to put you to sleep . Unless you need to see every rubber suited monster or are in need of sleep this is a movie you can pass on .
Great monsters in a slow brooding mess	Donald Pleasence is a mad doctor trying to mix plant and animals , who only succeeds in causing weird mutations . Aiding Pleasence is Tom ( Dr Who ) Baker who is a deformed owner of a circus side show . Slow dull mess that has a great cast , cool effects but a pace that will put you out . I've loved the photos I saw from the film over the years and was really looking forward to seeing the film at last . Boy was I disappointed as things seemed to be all talk and little action , even if the monsters look great and the circus side show sequence is fun . Despite my best efforts to stick it out to the end I finally had to break down and scan through some of the verbal nonsense . Worth a look if you like cool monsters and are are forgiving , for any one else I'd take a pass .
A not very good comedy based on a classic comic	My first comment is that really Bud Duncan's nose ? I watched this not very good comedy from start to finish simply because I couldn't tell whether Duncan , who plays Snuffy Smith , had on a fake nose or not . Its huge , the type of nose that would make WC Fields jealous . The plot is more a series of connected episodes rather than one long story . The movie begins with revenuers coming to break up Snuffy's still , and having a bad time of it . Snuffy then helps a neighbor see his girl before going off to the army . Its a Hatfield and McCoy situation that ends up bringing trouble on Snuffy who decides to join the army for the money and the uniform . Somewhere in this Snuffy's wife invents an invisible formula . Being too old and too short Snuffy can't get into the army , but all is made right when he saves a general's life and is inducted as a yard-bird . A few more things happen before we get to the main plot which has to do with a new artillery range finder . ( less than half the movie is left at this point ) The movie plays more like a Hollywood Hillbilly Dress Up than anything else . The jokes , while not quite bottom of the barrel , are close . The result is not terrible , its just not interesting , or funny . It plays like a stereotypical " Poverty Row " comedy , but less funny . Then again most comedies of this sort aren't this stilted . There's something about the direction that doesn't work . The one thing that I like is the odd comic strip feel it has at times . There are moments , mostly in the army sequences where the cheapness of the production makes the film seem like it was lifted from the comic pages . Its a nice effect , intentional or not , but its put to no use . I can't really recommend this movie to anyone , unless you're dying to see either every comic strip movie ever made or to see one of the weirdest noses on screen . Its simply not all that good .
A funny joke ruined by awful editing	It begins with a man walking into a theatrical agents office . It ends with the man saying the act is called " The Aristocrats " . The middle is a description of the act which usually involves the most vile things the teller can think of . In the proper hands this is a very funny joke . The makers of this film do not possess the proper hands . Over the course of several years Paul Provenza and Penn Jillette filmed their friends , some of the worlds funniest comedians telling the joke and talking about it . They then brought the footage together and put it out for the rest of us to enjoy . Certainly they have given us some very funny moments , Gilbert Gottfried at the Friars Roast , Kevin Pollack doing Christopher Walken , Larry Storch , Sarah Silverman being obscene . Its great stuff . Add to that George Carlin , Billy Connolly and others talking about the joke and about comedy and you have an informative mix . Or it would be if Provenza knew how to edit a film . This is possibly the single worst edited film I've ever seen . We barely get to see the joke from start to finish , every speaker is inter-cut with everyone else so that it comes across as one of those dinners with your family where everyone is talking at the same time . Everyone is telling the joke essentially at the same time , ending and beginning randomly as they use repeated tellings to illustrate the structure , both real and imagined of the joke . People seem to have been cut off in mid thought as we jump to something else , only to come back to the first person still stammering out the thought . Its awful . There is no rhythm to flow to the film just joke after joke after idea after joke . You end up not caring and wondering what all of the fuss about the film was . Don't get me wrong this can be a very funny movie . The material here is often grade A filth , or would be if anyone was allowed to build up a head of steam . I laughed and I hated it . A very badly made , but at times very funny movie . Worth a rental if you can stand the gross out humor simply because some of this is priceless humor . ( And if you rent the DVD you can see the extras which are more consistently funny than the movie itself )
Only Alfred Molina is worth watching ( and worthy of an Oscar )	I'm apparently in the minority of film goers in that I despise this film . Its simply one of the dullest , most predictable films I've seen in years , and yet people are falling all over themselves with praise for it . Which version did all these people see since it wasn't the one that played my local cinema . Basically this is a Spiderman film with out Spiderman . The Parker / MJ relationship trudges on , Osborne moans about how his father was killed by Spidey and Parker tries giving up the suit . Its dull and worst of all you know where its going . Perhaps its the trailers , or perhaps its just the conventions of the genre , but what ever it is this film is so predictable that Las Vegas is considering banning it as too sure a thing . The only joy is Alfred Molina's Doc Ock . When he is on screen you realize what this movie should have been . He is a villain of the highest order and gives a performance that Oscar will be noticing come award time . ( It better or else some super villains will tear down the Academy ) Molina gives the film a reason to be . Unfortunately instead of being the main thrust of the film he's given the short end of the stick . If I did my math right he's in it for around 30 to 40 minutes , and disappears from even conversation for whole sections of the film . He's the best thing in this movie and he's second banana to angst . Not that anyone is going to listen to me , but wait for cable or home video when you can zap through the dull parts . , simply because the Molina bits are dragged down by less than zero rest of the film .
Story of a bunch of students looking for primitive tribe starts off promising then descends into bad cave man cliché	Playing like a low rent version of an Italian cannibal movie , but with little nudity , some gore and bad fright wigs this is the story of a group of students who travel deep into the jungle to get material for their thesis . Stopping first with a tribe that has had contact with the modern world , they then move on to find an undiscovered group . While traveling down stream their boasts flip in the rapids and they are separated into groups . One group is captured by an unknown tribe while the others try to find them and stay alive . This is half a good film . Most of the stuff up until they meet the unknown tribe is okay in a low rent sort of way . Once they meet the tribe things get very silly as everyone seems to be wearing the same bad wig and carrying professionally made by the prop department stone weapons . The tribe often seems to be engaging in too much " ooga booga " behavior . There are flashes of good stuff in these scenes but mostly it comes off as a gory Caveman ( The movie with Ringo Starr ) . The film seems to want to be on par with the Italian cannibal films but its done on the cheap and with no conviction like the films they are seeking to copy . There is almost zero nudity which is odd for a primitive culture . They strip one guy down to his bvds and then stop as if for modesty reasons . The female lead never loses her shirt even though everyone else ends up with torn clothes . The violence against animals is quite graphic ( and some of the animal against animal stuff is from another mismatched film ) , but some of the violence against people is shown slightly obscured manner . Its a great disappointment . This isn't to say the movie is awful . Its not . There are some good things here , basically anything not involving the natives ( which I know defeats the purpose since this is film about them ) . This is going to appeal more to people with a love for or high tolerance of bad movies since a good half of this is very silly .
Creaky poverty row action film is passable time killer	The problem with some of the low end early sound films is that they feel like they are leadenly paced . Partly this was due to a lack of music and partly it was due to a lack of skill in putting together something special . In The Fighting Pilot its a combination of both , which proves almost deadly to a film thats suppose to be an action adventure flick . The plot concerns the attempt to get the designs of a new plane by some bad guys . The boyfriend of the inventor's daughter finds that he has to run interference between the inventors and gangsters who are out to make a buck or two at the expense of everyone else . Its a proved story thats been done before both better and worse . The problem here is that the film was done on the cheap . Everything other than the planes look lack luster . There is an absence of music so the proceedings are slowed way down , even in the action scenes . The fights are more flailing affairs where the actors thrash about wildly in and attempt to look like they are really fighting , while attempting not to harm anyone or anything on the meager sets . It looks more silly then anything else . On the positive side the cast is mostly game with stalwart Richard Talmadge playing the pilot of the title . Talmadge was a solid actor who never really graduated to anything past the B movies , but was always good none the less . Over all this is an okay movie that is overly creaky due to the passage of time and the lack of money in the budget . If it had been a tiny bit more engaging I'd say give it a shot , but there is something about the way the movie stands right now that is very likely to send you to Dreamland and not the " Wild Blue Yonder " . Still if you're feeling adventurous and not too worried about possibly dozing off I'd give it a try . Somewhere between 4 and .
Story meanders too much and the leads are unlikable to be much of anything	Young woman plays a game of chicken with a young man speeding down the road unaware that he is racing to a fire . She cuts him off and he crashes into a light post . He takes her car and continues on his way . It's a meet cute that leads into a story of the pair and how it connects to arson and insurance fraud . It's a good looking film with a real sense of place thanks to it not being sound stage bound ( The fire department scenes are neat ) . The problem for me was that the film seems to meander all around being more about the semi idle rich then about crime . Whats worse is the characters are more annoying rather than endearing . I lost patience with the film about a third of the way through and began to do other things until the last ten minutes when boy and girl race off to prevent a fire at warehouse that was being intentionally set . All the excitement at the very end-its great but there's a slog to get there . Its not a bad , though its probably just okay at best , movie but it was probably the wrong movie for my mood last night .
Director Olivier Assayas constructs a complicated tale that leaves his actors completely adrift	Olivier Assayas ' film stars Asia Argento as a woman who had a relationship with Michael Madsen . Madsen is a business man who's in financial trouble . In desperation he is going to sell his share of a business to a company called Golden Eagle , a company from the Far East . As Madsen begins his moves away from his company Asia Argento returns to his life . The pair had a torrid love affair that included her doing business favors for Madsen ( with said Golden Eagle ) . Once Argento enters the film the film follows her as we see the tangled web she's woven and how the complications spin dangerously and violently out of control . I'm not a fan . Actually I was quite bored as the film seems to go from pillar to post for much of the first hour during which I kept wondering what the point was other than to provide a meaty role for Argento . Argento , daughter of director Dario Argento and a director in her own right , is a unique actress . At times stunningly good , she is more often then not going to give you a quirky off beat portrayal of a damaged human being . Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't . I don't think it completely works here mostly because the script is too " complicated " to support it . I didn't care what was going on so her wounded girl just rubbed me the wrong way ( she seemed more nut job than anything else ) . I'm not blaming the actors but writer / director Assayas who has once again constructed a complicated tale with the sort of parts actors love to tackle , but which leave audiences scratching their heads because they they don't really work . If you must try it on cable
Better with the sound off	Just Jaekin's film based on John Willie's bondage comic The Adventures of Sweet Gwendoline . In in the Orient in the 1920's or 30's Gwendoline and her best friend ship themselves over seas in order to find her missing father . Gwen is discovered in a crate and kidnapped and brought to a crime boss . Rescued by accident by a handsome hunk of a guy Gwen , her friend and the guy end up wandering off into the jungle / desert / lost city in order to find her father . As you can tell from the lack of names this really isn't good enough to pay attention to . Sure it has lots of beautiful women ( almost all of the naked or semi-naked variety ) and some decent action , but the over all direction ( a bit too slack ) and much too whimsical script under cuts its ability to send up films of the Indiana Jones variety . Yes its amusing for 20 minutes or so but then you realize that there are 80 more to go and you end up groaning loudly . The selling point of the film is the look . Its very much a fetishists dream with the lost city's Amazons all dressed in revealing leather , while the city itself contains some very nasty torture devices . it looks great and to be honest its the sort of thing thats gonna play oh so much better with the sound off . I'm still pondering how the heck I ended up with a copy of the film on DVD since even though I've read some recent vintage articles on the film which argued its better than its reputation , I never really liked the film much when I saw it all those years ago when I managed a video store . Still the extras are informative , and there always is the resale market . I'd take a pass on this one .
Beyond low brow comedy runs out of steam after 15 minutes and is only sporadically worth seeing after that	Hamlet its not . Funny it is , in the lowest of the low sort of way . Its fart jokes ( and worse ) galore and if you hate them stay away . The plot has Larry getting a new partner and being assigned the ritzy restaurant beat by the mayor . Of course its a set up and of course in the end Larry comes riding to the rescue . The problem is that after about 15 or 20 minutes the laughs stop as the plot really kicks in . There are jokes after 15 minutes just not that many good ones , even of the fart related variety . Actually by the half hour mark the movie becomes rather dull in a been there done that , why aren't there more jokes sort of way . While I don't think that the movie is the worst ever made , it is a disappointment simply because it runs out of steam so early on . Not worth paying for at any time , it is worth seeing when it finally makes it to cable where you can see the funny bits endlessly with out having to waste your money .
Is this serious or a joke ?	Messy form over content police thriller ( comedy ? ) has a cop , who is trying to come to terms with a long missing girlfriend , lose a witness in an organized crime case to an assassin . How the cop , the girlfriend and the assassins all interrelate is the film . I didn't know whether director Benny Chan was serious or not . Chan a good director ( New Police Story ) for the most part though occasionally he tries to do too much and the pieces don't come together ( Rob B Hood ) . Here nothing seems to work and it all seems like a TV movie . The action isn't real , its done for artistic effect - the early strangulation where the victim claws the paint of the truck for example . Whats worse its laughable - the sequence where our hero finds the picture of his lost girl in his car and takes his foot off the brake while on a steep incline had me howling . Actually I just gave up on the film and jumped to the end . For me its one of the real disappointments I've seen recently , even if it does have a couple of good sequences-the plastic bag fight for example .
comedy ruins the mystery	Second attempt at turning the radio character into a movie series . This time out its Kane Richmond as Lamont Cranston and his alter ego the Shadow . Here he has no power to cloud men's minds , instead he wears a mask and a fedora . Here he is investigating the smuggling of jewels in coffins and the deaths the occur around it . Very comedic the film has almost no suspense despite its best efforts . The broad comedy simply cuts across the mystery and takes away from feeling of danger . The ploy almost works , however about two thirds of the way through the film the mashing of styles becomes too much and the back and forth nature of the plot ( There are only really three locations , the commissioner's office , the dead man's house and a warehouse ) interest dissipates and you get the feeling you'd really like to just jump to the end to see who the killer is . Worth trying but only on cable .
Rethinking of the classic story removes many of the elements that makes the story so scary	Fourth film version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a misfire . Neither the disaster that most pre-release reviews made it out to be , nor the classic a ( very ) few post release reviews claimed , this is destined to get lost sometime soon . The problem with the film is that in rethinking the story it removed many of the elements that made it so scary . Here the virus is known about more or less from the get go as shuttle crash brings the " virus " ( gone are the pods ) to earth . The battle is that the virus now bringing an end to conflict , everyone is getting along . . . mostly . It seems that Nicole Kidman's son is immune and with him a vaccine can be made . Owing more to say Robert Heinlein's Puppet Masters and its 1990's film version ( which I really like ) this is a scifi movie of the been there done that variety . Sure there are some scares but the visceral punch is gone . The first version worked because of what it represented . Philip Kaufman's remake / sequel worked ( possibly better ) by taking the known form of the original and upping the ante in all the right spots . Abel Ferrara's army base set Body Snatchers worked ( less well than the first two but still worked ) because it spun the tale in new directions , and even covered similar ground as this one . If this version works at all , it's perhaps because of the craft , but its chills and thrills are empty and moments after a scare or shiver you realize that what frightened you makes no sense except in the unreal world on screen . For hard core fans of the stars or for those needing to see every scifi remake that comes down the pike only . All others are advised to avoid this waste of celluloid , until you're forced to see it on endless cable rotation . ( Hey what did you expect from a film that sat so long on the shelf that new scenes featuring Daniel Craig were shot long before he was even cast as James Bond , thus allowing him to become , unintentionally , one of the big names in the cast ) .
The bare minimum that a movie can do to amuse you	One of an increasing trend in American films today , namely a well made but empty and poorly written film that exists purely to generate some sort of cash flow between the various parties where the audience is ripped off both by paying to see it and then by being asked to buy the turkey again on home video ( Perhaps the posters all over Manhattan that had huge F's and U's and the rest of the title in tiny letters are the best description of the producers attitude toward their audience ) . The plot has two football players refusing to go to the spring training camp because it was moved to Texas where there are no girls and instead heading off to cheerleader camp where its all women . Lowest common denominator film-making strikes again . I'm not going to say that the film isn't funny , but it is rather one note . Once everything is set up you know how its going to go and because the script is so limited in its premise the jokes aren't anything that you can't figure out . I was amused for a brief instant but that was it . Its the sort of movie that that struck me as having made by several people I went to school with - where they wanted to know what the bare minimum was for a passing grade , this is the same way . If you ever want to know what the bare minimum for a lowest common denominator film aimed at purely taking you money is where you'll laugh a bare minimum of times and be able to say that the film doesn't totally stink , this is it .
Great black and white photography in a movie that is a good little film until the monster shows up	This movie is one of those movies that should have been better . The basic plot has two room mates going off to a nudist camp for the weekends . One is a nurse at a research lab where an accident produces a nasty mix of chemicals that turns rats mean . The creator knowing its a bad thing , but through a series of contrivances the stuff ends up in a stream by the camp where it turns the caretaker in to an ax wielding maniac . The film turns surreal as a stock footage army arrives to kill the monster and it ends with everyone getting naked and wandering off to live happily ever after . The pacing of this film is really slow . Had it not been , and had it not turned stupid once the monster appears this could have been a good nudist thriller . The people are mostly real and the plotting isn't that bad , its just the sort of thing that they tried to . . . I don't know what and messed it all up . I do have to say that the photography and in the New York City scenes in particular is glorious black and white . This is a wonderful record of the city circa 1964 . There is a sequence involving a photo shoot on a rooftop that is stunning and I'm tempted to print out one of the frames when and if I get a DVD ROM in my computer .
Slow doesn't begin to tell it	This is a painfully slow story about the last days of 1999 when a strange disease breaks out and . . . I stopped caring . This is suppose to be about two people who live over or under each other in an apartment complex . There's a leak and a plumber put a hole in the man's floor so you can see into the woman's below apartment . Also since there is a crisis going on much of the dialog is actually news reports . . . Sounds promising ? Not really . I became distracted and started doing other things which is deadly in a subtitled film . Basically I started not watching , which made events seem even more surreal when I did look up . It may work for you , it didn't for me .
Just okay movie cut from the old Gangbusters TV show would have been better as individual episodes	Apparently re-cut episodes from the Gangbusters TV show on the big screen . While this was frequently done in the 50's and 60's because people didn't have a TV or a color TV and producers wanted an increased return on their investment ( big screen ticket sales or if it went to the small screen resale of a series that isn't in syndication ) , the results were usually less then the sum of their parts . The only time I've ever seen it work were where multi-part stories were put together ( Ala Rocky Jones or Man From Uncle ) or in the case of horror anthology ( The Veil and 13 Demon Street ) . Here the effect is to have stories of American criminals in the 20's and 30's ( Dillinger , Pretty Boy Floyd , Bonnie and Clyde , etc ) inter-cut with each other as a narrator talks about how the FBI hunted them down . Its a weird concoction that doesn't quite work because its clear that there are things here that don't belong together . More than once I looked at the TV oddly because things didn't seem right . In fairness I won't describe the cheapness of the production since this was what early TV ( and the series ) was like . Its not bad , but its not very good either . To be perfectly honest the episodes of the series that I've seen work better a single episodes where we're not expecting as much . Given the choice I'd rent dvds of the show instead of this movie .
Bland dull and completely not needed	Supernatural weirdness on a college campus as a girl sees her room mate commit suicide and there after begins to see the boogeyman doing in her classmates everywhere . This is a bland direct to DVD sequel that isn't as horrible as you might think , but was obviously made for money not love . Its too mechanical to be scary with the film's choice of shots being weak , especially since many shots and sequences go on to long . Its almost good , but not quite . Pretty much unnecessary since its nether good enough to worth watching nor bad enough to use as a target for pithy remarks . somewhere around
Outside of the setting , this isn't anything we haven't seen before	Gross out thriller set in a pathology lab as the the young residents begin to play the game of who can commit the perfect murder . If it was for the cadavers in various stages of autopsy this would be just another thriller about kids trying to get away with murder . At first the idea is promising thanks to its setting , but it quickly reveals itself to looking gross but little else . Even after the initial gross out of being in at the autopsy the film settles down into being something you've seen a dozen or so times before-if you watch these sort of things - a bunch of stock " teen " characters trying to be clever ( though here they are beyond teens ) . Its understandable why this hasn't gotten a big theatrical release since it isn't all that good .
Not for most tastes - or those wishing to stay awake	This is a well made beautiful film about the kidnap and torture of women . Its great to look at but I have yet to determine why I should want to watch it . Don't get me wrong it has nothing to do with refined sensibilities , I can enjoy twisted exploitation as well as anyone , but there's simply something wrong . I think the problem with it is that its rather a dull movie . Terrible things happen to good looking woman . . . and thats about it . There is some attempt at character , but its not all that interesting . Its as if its trying to be more than the bondage porno it is . I had been drawn to the film when I had read several articles that mentioned its bad reputation , so when I found a cheap copy I figured I'd give it a try . Perhaps back in 1979 it was something , but today with these jaded eyes its unremarkable . I've seen films of every sort and this one didn't strike as much of anything . Will you find it offensive ? If naked tortured women offends you , or you have stayed in the mainstream in your tastes , you probably will be offended or made uncomfortable , but for anyone else , this is probably going to bore you much more than it will shock or excite you . It has not lived up to its reputation .
Dull	Andy Lau stars in another cop undercover tale . Daniel Wu plays Nick who is working for the cops and is also close to the top of a drug dealing gang ( Lau ) . The movie begins as we watch the police try to make a drug bust only to see it go to pieces . We then are introduced to the young drug addicted mother and her daughter living near Nick and to his cronies and the cops , and 45 minutes in I shut off the movie and put on the news . Well acted and great to look at this is as uninvolving a movie as I've seen in a long time . Its not bad as such its just you really don't care . I mean I really didn't care at all . I actually started to do something else completely forgetting I had on a subtitled movie on , thats how much I didn't care . I wish I could have hated the film but the film is such a nonentity that it made almost no impression on me ( its not even something I could sleep to its just something to ignore ) . Come on the box called it the Chinese Scarface , what after he was dead ? This is one to avoid .
Paul Naschy fans only need apply	Spanish alien zombie comedy gore film isn't very good . Two men escape from prison then make a b-line to retrieve some stolen cash . Ending up double crossed they find themselves up against some alien zombies . Starring Paul Naschy , famous for playing werewolf in a long running series of movies , this is an on the cheap production that reminded me of Peter Jackson's Bad Taste . Very gory , the film is hampered by some really bad taste and offensive attitudes ( misogyny abounds ) , its just not fun to listen to these jerks . Worse is the fact that humor more often than not falls flat . Only Naschy gives any reason to see the film .
Lesser Euro-Shocker is more soap opera than thrill ride	A killer known as The Hyena of London is caught and hanged . However almost immediately his body goes missing . In a small village outside of London people begin to die in a manner similar to the way the Hyena killed . Italian Euro-horror shocker that bogs down almost instantly into various love triangles and quadrangles and general romance . More soap opera than horror film the movie never really generates much tension even as its trying to be very Gothic . Not bad as such but I picked this up since it was listed as a horror film and I was expecting thrills and chills not soap . More bland than anything I thought a good deal of this was tedious , though watchable as background noise . The disappointing thing was that many of the revelations seemed to be an after thought . Ultimately a lesser Euro-shocker from Italy ( despite the Anglicized credits )
The pieces work the whole doesn't	Wong Kar-Wai's first English language film . Nora Jones stars as Elizabeth a young woman who walks into Jude Laws Cafe after her boyfriend dumps her . After several nights there eating blueberry pie she heads off on the road where she meets a cop in Memphis and a gambler in Nevada . A decidedly uneven mix of a movie that doesn't add up to much . Kar-Wai's beautiful camera work produces some great images but his some time use of slow motion is over used to the point you'll want to hit the fast forward so you see something at normal speed . How the film is shot also produces an overly cramped sense . Much of the Jude Law sequence seems to have been shot through the windows of the café and from one angle . The Memphis sequence is like that as well . The story about relationships rarely springs to life in more than in fits and starts . Its all moments not a whole film . I have no idea why Elizabeth goes traveling other than as an excuse to meet the people we meet . It fragments the film and takes us away from the most interesting thing in the film the chats with Jude Law . The cast is good with the up and down Natalie Portman in up mode as a gambler who meets Norah Jones ( fair at the start but gets better as it goes ) in Nevada and travels around with her . Rachel Weisz as the wife of the Memphis cop is far from English herself as a woman with a thick southern accent . The joy of the film is the music . This has a stunning soundtrack that drives the film when the writing lets everything else drift . I kept going just to hear the music . The weakest of Kar Wai's films I've seen . There is a good movie in here but it needs to be remade . ( I'd love to see the Jude Law bits in a different context )
Sarah Jessica Parker ruins an other wise good romantic comedy	Matthew McConaughey is 35 and still lives at home , so his parents hire Sarah Jessica Parker to flirt with him until he moves out . Clearly his parents hate him . A good idea with a mostly great cast is done is by Sarah Jessica Parker who gives one of her worst performances . She's awful . ( She also is beginning to look old , but lets not be catty ) Coming off as more annoying than cute she single handedly sinks what could have been a really funny comedy . Its sad because I loved the rest of the movie a great deal but I just found Parker the cinematic equivalent to having a pebble in your shoe that you can't get out so it ruins a beautiful walk . Of course if you like Parker disregard this comment and see the movie .
An admirable film that may put you to sleep	Steven Soderbergh's small little film about the lives of some people working in a doll factory . This is the life of quiet non-existence as Martha and Kyle go through the motions of their dead end lives . One day Rose arrives and it isn't long before things begin to change . This is a bleak film acted by real people in their actual homes so that its set , essentially , in their world . Its a film thats pretty much a slice of life , with a twist . Its depiction of small time life seems to be on target , so much so that the boredom that inhabits the characters lives bleeds off the screen and infects the viewer , but not in a good way . Let me be honest and say that 15 minutes into this film I was bored . I stuck with the film because the descriptions of the film in reviews and on the packaging said that a murder occurs . Regrettably when it does ( off screen ) its far from exciting . Life goes on just as dully before , only now we're introduced to some policemen who go about investigating . I was almost catatonic . Part of the problem is the uneven cast , some of them are fine , but others are flat and far from natural , but I don't blame them since they may have been performing for the first time . Part of the problem is the script and direction which often so static as to be glacial . It doesn't help that the resolution is rather odd and seems to have come from left field even though its plainly obvious what much what happens is going to be ( though it is better than the deleted ending found on the DVD ) . Honestly I can admire the film and what its trying to do . As a shirt film ( say no more than 40 minutes ) or short story this would have been a good story , but at 73 minutes its just too long . Whether you'll want to see it or not is up to you . It may click or it may not . Then again I'm haunted by the feeling that if Steven Soderbergh hadn't directed it , and if it hadn't been the first film to be released to in theaters , cable and DVD all on the same day , the film either would have been totally lost or more probably never released at all .
Is a TV movie still a TV movie even though its released to the big screen ?	This is a very run of the mill TV movie that somehow got diverted to the big screen . I don't know why , except maybe they had trouble with some of the violence and material when it was first made ( then again this was apparently G rated when it played in theaters ) . The plot has a hit man on the run from both the cops and the mob after a cop is shot . Its well acted by the cast ( Ray Milland , Van Johnson , Fritz Weaver , and other TV movie stalwarts of the 1970's ) but everyone seems to be there more for a paycheck than for anything else . Only John Saxon seems to be there for more than a paycheck . Actually Saxon's performance seemed to make me think that this wasn't a hack TV movie . I apologize for not being more detailed but while the movie wasn't bad it wasn't very good either , it just sort lays there , not really a movie movie , and not really a TV movie . Watching this late last night I found myself slowly being put to sleep by it while at the same time trying to remain awake enough to find out what happened next ( which does score points for it ) . Once it was over I moved on to other , more lively things and was wide awake for those . I guess the best thing I can say , its not bad , but if you can watch something else you might want to .
Too static a film to be interesting	F . W . Murnau directs a film that seems strangely static . The plot has something about an uninvited count showing up at the home of a Baroness . He is professing his innocence to the killing of the Baroness's first husband and he then sets out to prove he didn't do it . Maybe it was the poor video source I saw which had inter-titles in both German and English ( and which seemed incomplete ) but this seemed to be little more than a bunch of people either sitting around talking or dealing with religious figure . I got bored and I got distracted and while the film played out to the end I really didn't care what happened . Not the sort of film that I would have expected from Murnau . Unless you're trying to see everything by the director I'd take a pass .
I was bored . Maybe the book was better	Story of redemption that left me bored . The story is of an Afghan writer living in the US . He gets a call from an old family friend which causes him to remember his days growing up in Afghanistan before the Soviets invaded . His inability to help a his best friend when he is attacked by some older boys strains the relationship . Back in the present the phone call gives him the chance to " become good again " by returning home . Feeling more like a small independent movie of the week this film rarely ever comes to life . The film very much has the feel of another place and time , but at the same time it feels very artificial and " movie like " . To be certain the boys who play the leads as children are surprisingly good , and the adults could have learned something from them . The adults are adequate , but no more than that , and as for the chemistry between the writer and his wife its non existent , there is no passion , no sense other than they just met that instant , not having been married for any length of time . ( forgive me for not remembering names I was fighting just to stay awake ) . Its not bad , but its not engaging and any sense of what its about beyond a very general notion about being about redemption and correcting past mistakes was lost on me .
An okay romance until the final reel	Richard Gere and Diane Lane star in a chick flick romance with the sort of ending I get really angry about . . . lets just say its not my cup of tea , just like the dime store romances are not my cup of tea . The plot has a doctor stopping at an inn and meeting a woman that he has a deep but brief affair with . He goes off to meet his estranged son and she goes back to her life . Well acted and well made the filmmakers forgot to get a real plot line . This is the stuff of dime store romances that makes the women swoon and the men shake their head in disbelief . I wouldn't be so adverse to the film as a mindless romance , except that the film takes a turn in the final reel that is so out of left field as to be completely unbelievable . Why must certain types of movies do stupid things like this ? It really ruined it for me . If you like romance give it a shot , though wait for cable .
Dull	Class war in Ancient Rome . The plot of Marcus , renamed Coriolanus after a victory , switching sides to expose the evils of Rome's leaders , is a snooze fest . The first third is dull court intrigue . The middle third is great action , that will get your hopes up . Unfortunately the final third is worse than the first and will bore you to tears . As good as the middle is the ends kill it . This is a movie to make you pull your hair out because whats good is so good that you end up with no patience for the bad parts . Making everything worse is the fact that the dubbing into English is terrible making the already iffy performances seem worse . A void unless you need sleep , or can manage only to see the middle third .
Nice to look at for a few minutes but I found it dull	( Review is of the Karloff narrated US release ) A stop motion puppet tale narrated by Boris Karloff . The story is framed by the story of a boy who is restricted by rules and can't leave his home or the grounds of his house . As he falls asleep he dreams the Hans Christian Andersen tale . Its nicely animated in the puppet style that George Pal made a fortune on as Puppet tunes and of the fairy tales that Ray Harryhausen did early in his career . There is a tradition of sorts in Eastern Europe , but frankly its not my style since its so intensive most of the image tends to be static , and often there are simply static shots with narration over it . It was nice but it bored me and I zipped through most of it on scan . Don't get me wrong if you want to see a well done version of a fairy tale see this but it can be slow . I can't imagine this longer , which apparently it is , the print I watched being ten to fifteen minutes shorter then the full version . MY question is which came first this or the Warner Brothers singing Michigan J Frog ? Its something to see but not seek out .
Look at artist Matthew Barney and his work is interesting for a brief period before becoming too much of a pretentious thing	Matthew Barney No Restraint is about Barney's filming of Drawing Restraint 9 , a film that he made with his companion Bjork . Its set on a Japanese whaling vessel and , as with much of Barney's work , involves a great deal of petroleum jelly . It begins in Brooklyn where Barney is testing out a tank that will be used to make a petroleum jelly casting on the whaling ship . The film then moves to Japan and we follow the filming of the movie . There are also interviews with people who know and admire Barney's work so the film acts as a nutshell biography of Barney and his art . While watching the new piece come together we get a taste of some of his other works , and since Barney's art consists of not only creating a piece of art but filming its creation we also see the works being put together . ( Warning : some of it can be disturbing ) . The title Drawing Restraint 9 refers to a series of works Barney has done where he limits his ability to move while making a drawing , say tethering himself to a bungee cord which keeps him from being able to stay at a paper attached near the top of a ramp . ( The end credits for this film contains the film record of Drawing Restraint 10 ) I'm not a fan of Matthew Barney . I do like the imagery his filmed projects produce but at the same time I wonder if he's for real . I keep getting the feeling that he's a talented person who's found a way of bilking rich patrons out of a great deal of money . His work constantly makes me wonder if he's serious or not . Actually I know he's serious since few people would go as far as Barney and not reveal its all been a joke . I had hoped that this film was going to give me some clue into to the art and mind of Matthew Barney . Unfortunately other than telling me how he does what he does , and providing some very beautiful imagery it left me cold . I still think Barney is full of it on all but a purely visual level , I especially find his his deeper meanings and explanations for what he's doing bordering on ludicrous . His massive Cremaster series ( which is discussed here ) , which runs around 9 or 10 hours concerns itself with ( I'm quoting someone in No Restraint here ) " The descent of the testicle and the quest for freedom " . Having seen some of the films created as part of that earlier cycle I have to say that at no time did a descending anything ever cross my mind . Clearly Barney and I have completely different take on his art . Then again watching the reaction of some of his supporters there are many people who want to be baffled by images Bjork waste deep in petroleum jelly hacking her legs off . No Restraint is a tough slog . Certainly seeing how Barney brings his vision together is interesting but only to a point . We get only limited insight into what Barney is doing . He explains what he's doing , but since we see very little of Drawing Restraint 9 his explanations mean nothing . At the same time the section of the film that show Barney's past work is of limited value since the people we see discussing it all seem to be somehow connected to Barney . Granted we get glimpses of what else he's done , but the work is very limited in context . I'm sure that had I seen Drawing Restraint or had been more familiar with the earlier work ( and had liked it ) this would have meant something to me . Instead it was 72 minutes that felt as though it was 60 too many . Recommended if you want an introduction to Matthew Barney , but don't have to pay for it . Alternately if you're a huge Bjork fan and must see everything she's done or need to hear her talk about her work and life . Just keep the remote handy . At the same time everyone else may want to just stay away
Exploitation " classic " is more silly than shocking	Exploitation classic thats more humorous now then either titillating or shocking . This is an anti-child bride film . Yes there was a time when young , even preteen girls could get married to older men . This is the story of a young girl who may be doomed to suffer such a fate . A serious subject , the film is now very silly with some acting styles that went out of style in the early days of silents ( Watch the scene when Jennie gets up in the morning and try not to fall on the floor laughing . ) Give the film points for having some realer characters than many backwoods films coming from Hollywood , but take a few away since this film is really just an exploitation film . Notorious for a brief flash of nudity in a skinny dipping scene by the then 12 year old star ( some prints excise it ) its nothing even remotely titillating or sexy . Its actually done in such away as to be fleeting and not even clear . I probably shouldn't have even mentioned it except some people are shocked or horrified by it . The film itself is better than it should be , however its still not very good . As I said much of it plays more humorous than serious and its so creaky that you can see the machine like plot clacking away towards its conclusion where you end up on the edge of your seat waiting to see if Jennie will suffer a fate worse then death . ( Its much less over the top than say a film like Reefer Madness where you can laugh at it , which takes away much of the fun ) If you're a fan of creaky exploitation films give it a try . All others stay away .
Some laughs in a one dimensional tale thats been done before	Self-help guru who hated his gym teacher goes home to find his mom engaged to said teacher , stilted merriment tries to ensue . The idea is sound the execution isn't . Woodcock , Billy Bob Thorton's gym teacher character is much too one dimensional to really work since he has one expression the whole time . Sean William Scott as the self help guru tries too hard to be wacky and falls on his face . Actually the script just doesn't work since its so obvious where its going . There are laughs and smiles despite of the lack of it all hanging together , and one " Whoa " nervous " oh crap he really got hurt " laugh towards the end . Worth a look on a slow night on cable where you'll be more forgiving of the dull bits on the way to the good ones .
clever but not funny	Proof that Germans are not good at humor and that even Herzog missteps . Various people around a race track talk about protecting the horses from crazy fanatics , while an older man tries to run them off . Surreal tale that doesn't really work . The bits go on way past the point of being funny , though there are some very amusing moments such as the man who trains horses by walking them around a tree for 36 hours , however since no horse could keep up the pace he has to trade off horses . Its a long 12 minutes and the punchline , while amusing doesn't really add up to much .
Dull	After the explosive ending of Kill Bill : Volume 1 this movie is a major let down . Granted Volume 1 took a while to get going , but once it got firing there was no stopping it . Or so I thought . I don't care what anyone says this film is a series of sequences that are in desperate need of editing . This movie just goes on and on and on . Its a mess . Actually this film has only one problem and that it insists on filling fill in the blanks concerning every single character , whether it moves the plot or not . Several of these sequences could be so much shorter , but Quentin instead insists on letting them play out until you want to snooze . Worse this film insists on copying god knows how many film styles , a flaw the first film over came . Most of the styles didn't need to have them paid homage . I will not discuss the ending which goes on to the point of boredom , I dislike it and I'll leave it at that . Perhaps this will play better as seen as one long 5 hour film , but I doubt it . .
It may have great action but its a long slow slog to get to it	A vicious gang of jewel thieves is operating in Hong Kong . Using a cabaret as a front they are smuggling jewels all over the orient , and leaving a trail of dead women who acted as couriers . After a jewel robbery leaves a good number of people dead a special all female unit is formed to see if it can get the goods on the robbers . This Shaw Brothers film is a mess . First off other than the robbery and a training exercise there is really no action for the better part of an hour ( if you've seen the trailer your seeing the training exercise and the final battle cut together ) . When the action finally happens its basically a few short fights followed by a very long battle that caps the film . Its all great stuff of the highest order , but by the time you encounter it its almost too little too late . The film also makes very little sense outside of the gem smuggling central theme . There's a side story about one of the bad guys who's a knife throwing ( as in on stage ) sadist with the women but it really doesn't go anywhere . One of the police women is dating the son of the dead owner of the jewelry store that was robbed but that seems more like an after thought than anything real . By the time the final battle happens odds are you'll just be watching for the fights , I know I was . This is only worth seeing if you come in in the middle since thats when all of the fighting starts . It will also give the illusion that the movie makes sense since you can assume you missed something ( which you haven't ) . For martial arts complete-ists only . FYI - Two points to note , the trailer for this film seems to contain different footage from the film . It maybe the result of the print I saw which was dubbed into English and subtitled in Greek , but I didn't see anyone drive a motorcycle through a wall . Secondly early on when the all female unit is formed we see several photographs of the dead couriers . One them is of a woman who is killed later in the movie by the knife wielding sadist .
Supporting Frank Albertson is such a jerk that it makes enjoying the comedy next to impossible	Salesman who can't get a girl , plays it like a tough guy to win himself one . Unfortunately he also looks like a notorious gangster and finds himself in deep trouble . Set in 1931 , the film is clearly the product of the 1940's , no real attempt was made to actually make the film look like when it was set ( clothes and hairstyles are definitely post war ) . I don't think it would have made any difference as to when the film was set so I don't know why they bothered to make it 1931 . The film itself is a mildly amusing comedy of the fill in the blanks kind . Once you realize that the harmless Dill is going to be confused as killer you can pretty much wind it up and follow its path without thinking . The big problem with the film is Dill's attorney friend played by Frank Albertson . Albertson's character is as big a jerk as they come . Constantly out of money he is forever borrowing cash . Worse he does whatever suits him best , even to the detriment of everyone around him . I don't think I've seen as big a heel or jerk in a film in many years . He's such a slime that its almost impossible to believe that anyone , even the downtrodden Dill , would put up with him ( most amazingly he actually has a fiancé ) . Albertson is such a jerk that the film ceases to be a comedy ( weak though it is ) and simply become a Theater of Cruelty production . How much abuse can he hand out before he gets his comeuppance ? ? I didn't want to find out . Not horrible , but not really good either . This is 70 minutes best spent somewhere else . ( Gargling is always good )
Annoying performances and unbelievable plot make this tough viewing	Th plot is simple . During a night time flight Jody Foster's daughter disappears . No one believes her . And it becomes a race to find her missing daughter before they land . This is an unbelievable variation of a locked room mystery . Locked room mysteries are the type of stories where someone is " murdered " in a locked room that no one can get into , nor could they have gotten out with out leaving some sign . When they are done well , say in the Kennel Murder Case , you truly have no idea whats going on and you believe a miracle has taken place . When its done badly you end up with a movie like this . The problem here is that the movie is unbelievable and contrived from the start . The problem for me was that for this to work you have to get over the fact that no one saw her daughter . . . or her disappear . . . nor is there a good reason for the events to transpire . It's so contrived , it never worked for me . The plot just made no reasonable sense at any point ( I'm not discussing the problems because there isn't enough space nor do I want to give too much away if you do want to see it ) . I know several people who loved this movie and while they admitted after the fact that there are plot holes ( chasms is a better word ) , they didn't notice it while the movie was running because they were so caught up in it . I didn't believe a moment of it from the start , worse the film spins out in such away that it gives you time to think about how things don't fit together . To top it all off Jody Foster's character and performance are completely unlikable from the start . Allowing for the fact that she is suppose to be stressed , taking the body of her husband home , she still starts the movie two steps away from shrill only to cross the line almost instantly . If I were the crew I wouldn't have listened to her either . This is the worst performance I've ever seen Foster give . Illogical and shrill . If you must see this wait for home video or cable .
Plot twists instead of characters make for a just okay movie	The film opens with a high speed chase at night . the cops are chasing after someone . Shots ring out . The car the cops are chasing crashes ejecting the passengers-a notorious criminal as well as the newly elected DA and his wife . Only the wife survives . A reporter and friend of the gravely injured wife sneaks into her room in the hospital and asks her to tell him what happened , she does . Cheaply made film noir with a cast that is mostly unfamiliar faces . Not a bad film as such , its just that the film seems to confuse motion of a twisty plot as the same thing as motion of characters you care about . I don't blame the cast for making this less than engaging , I blame the writer who is constantly changing who the principle characters are as a way of keeping you interested . Is anyone good or bad ? Its not really clear until the final fade out . Only the dueling mob bosses seem to be constant , the result is that they play more as cartons rather than real people . As I said its not bad , its just that you end up watching it to see how the twists go rather than because you're engaged with the characters . You probably could spend your time better elsewhere .
I expected so much more from a film with this cast	Cast to die for in a movie that is considerably less . Vanessa Redgrave is dying but before she goes she begins to tell her daughters the story of her life and of her secret love . . . This is one of those movies which has the look and expectations of being a great film simply because they have so many great actors and actresses in it so it seems to be about something other than the potboiler that it really is . Not bad as such but with Redgrave , Toni Collette , Glenn Close , Meryl Streep , Clare Danes , Natasha Richardson , Eileen Atkins , Patrick Wilson , Hugh Darcy and others ( all giving fine performances ) you expect more than a weepy story thats a bit more than a harlequin romance . Wait for Cable .
Disappointing thriller starts off great then sort of runs out of steam as not very much seems to happen .	An architect and his wife go to remote castle like house somewhere in California . They are to do a survey of the house for the owners who have know retaken possession of the house after renting the place out for ten years . Once they arrive they find the road to the place blocked off by a makeshift dead end sign . Later that night , as they sleep in their beds something steals their keys to the place . What is going on ? Moody and atmospheric tale in which there isn't much beyond the mood and the atmosphere . Here is the story of two couples alone in a big empty house who try to unravel what is causing the ( few ) strange events around them . The problem is that not a great deal happens and when you get to the final revelation its terribly anti-climatic . Certainly for the first half of the movie you're hooked by the mood and shadows of whats on the screen but then it suddenly begins to dawn on you that almost nothing has happened and unless something radical happens nothing is going to . Honestly there is enough for a half hour movie here but not enough to prevent boredom for the films one hour running time . This is not a movie to see pan and scan since all of the things that make the film so eerie and moody will be cut off by the panning and scanning . For all its flaws this is a movie that should be looked at to see how mood can be created in a widescreen image . Ultimately though , this is a movie thats best left to people who want to see a scary movie but one thats not too scary . Perfect for parents who want to show their kids an adult thriller but don't want them up all night screaming . The rest of us may want to take a pass unless an undemanding mood hits . ( A Word of Warning - The DVD has the trailer on the disc and I suggest avoiding it until after you see the film . It gives away almost all of the high points of the film while suggesting a much more action packed film )
Cold mechanical tale of the Russian mafia in England is hard to connect to	Story of a midwife who gets caught up in the fringes of the Russian mob when she attempts to track down the family of a baby when the 14 year old mother dies delivering the child . Well acted , great looking and made with a technical flair that will probably garner many awards comes years end . Unfortunately for me its also cold , distant and strangely un-involving ; it took me two passes to get through ( the first time I changed movies because it was clear early that the film just wasn't working for me . ) Part of the problem is that the film feels mechanical . I can see how tab A was put into slot B and it was folded along line c . I never felt that the film or its characters were really alive . It seemed to be a bigger budgeted version of the classic " indie " film where if you do certain things you'll provoke certain reactions ( and win certain awards ) . I'm a huge David Croneberg fan going back to Scanners ( the point at which the name meant something , though I know I had seen The Brood and his other films ) so while I don't find it odd that he's made a film thats cold and detached ( many of his horror films are icy and clinical ) , I find it odd that he's made a film thats so detached as to be unable to connect with the audience . For me there is always something that connects you , but here there is nothing . For me its the extremely rare film from a master director that doesn't resonate with me as anything other than a misfire . I've been reading some reviews on the film since seeing it but I'm still flummoxed . There are discussions of deeper meanings and hidden layers , but I don't see them . The characters don't seem to be that well deep , Naomi Watts ' midwife doesn't seem to be much beyond a woman in search for a surrogate child , while our mob boys are clearly not what they seem , which we know going in ( how can you not know that the sweetness hides and poisoned interior ) . Even looking back from the conclusion of the film I'm left wondering where the more than meet the eye many people have spoken about is residing ( certainly not in the plot " twists " which just drive the story ) . Don't get me wrong its not a bad movie . Its a well made one , but as a story its just okay . perhaps had it not been hyped I might have warmed to it , but the reviews have been such that I was expecting an assault on my senses that never came . I will give the film a deserved second ( well third ) chance , but I think that unless I suddenly find something to latch on to I will have to rate this as one of the director least interesting efforts .
Just misses being good and ends up being a mess	Church going house wife is arrested and charged with murder . Things become complicated as her neat little life begins to unravel and when its clear the Assistant District Attorney prosecuting the case doesn't care if she's guilty since he's looking to win the up coming election . Weakest film directed by actor turned director Bill Duke . Feeling more like a Tyler Perry wannabe thriller then the realistic and often gritty films that Duke usually turns out , this film seems more intent on being about something other than the mystery at hand . The film has a weak script which has too many " dark secrets " that the good cast can't really turn into anything truly worth watching . It just misses . . . and whats worse you can see it going whizzing by . . .
Despite a good turn by Jim Carrey , this film doesn't really work	Jim Carrey turns in a good performance in Joel Schumacher's confused and confusing thriller . The plot has Carrey stumbling upon a book that mirrors his own life and suggests that the world is governed by the number 23 . Murder and madness follow in a not very clear ( its one of those movies that get so confusing that at a certain point you're told whats happening ) , and not very good thriller . Made on the cheap for a a budget equal to Carrey's regular salary this isn't all that great , its not bad , but its not very good . The only reason to see it is Carrey who turns in a performance that is nothing like the wacko ones he does in his comedies . I'd wait for cable
Just okay but rather clichéd	Just okay story of a race driver who loses his nerve after a big crash . He has to find a way to race again when he discovers that his bitter rival has taken steps to assure that he will win the the big race . Okay race drama is very clichéd and by the numbers . Its the sort of film that you can pretty much fill in the blanks with . There's a great deal of talk and even more of romance which is okay , but you'd think a race film would be peppier . The joy here is the old cars . As a race fan it was neat to see the old cars in action running around the track however briefly . The cars are not worth seeing by themselves but if you do end up seeing this you'll at least have something with out clichés to hold your attention .
Cedric need to pick better movies	Cedric The Entertainer needs to find better people to work with . He plays a man who wakes up with no memory and in a room with cash and a dead body . He quickly ends up on the run from people who think he knows something as well as the police . Poor direction does in what could have been a good script ( you can feel the lack of feeling in how sequences are constructed ) . More than likely another movie made by committee , where every bit seems to have been put in place by a different person . Worth a look only for those having a slow night with their cable choices . .
An old style drive in movie done to day that has none of the quaintness of the passage of time so if you must wait for cable	Shot on video horror film about a killer who gets out of death row and goes looking for revenge and runs into a family and party of teens . This reminded me very much of the odd black and white chillers of the 1960's , specifically of the sort that played in the drive ins . The acting is fair ; there are goofy moments and the plot pure schlock . Of course there is a bump up in violence and graphic gore . Unfortunately there two problems , first we've been here before . The plot is nothing that hasn't been seen several dozen times since the mad killer films really started in the late fifties . The other problem is that having 50 years of dust and quaintness stripped away from a thriller of this sort and this plays like many of the original films played in their day , poorly . Perhaps if the acting had been better this might have worked better but as it stands now it just sort of lays there . I went from watching the film to doing other things pretty fast . Give it a point or two that I left it on but take one or two away because to be honest I really didn't care . If you must wait for cable
A trip to the grind house of old with great trailers , a fun splatter flick are ruined by painfully dull " car chase " movie thats mostly talk	Two movies in the style of the old grind house double features , complete with trailers . The trailers are great , but are too short to spoil with discussion . They are simply a great deal of fun . The first film is Planet Terror . This is the story of a zombie like take over of the the world due to a chemical weapon . Every zombie cliché you've ever seen here is played out with a bigger budget and higher body count . Its a bloody film thats a great deal of fun . If there is any problem with the film its that its intentionally nonsensical . To be certain films of this type often left logic and reason to blow in the wind , but even so you had a sense that things would have made sense if they had the money , or a better script , or something . Here the film jumps around and I got the feeling that they were doing it simply to replicate the feel of the old films and not out of necessity . On a scale of one to ten the film is a seven - get a bucket of popcorn , a root beer and enjoy . The second film is Death Proof . Easily one of the worst films of this year , and then some . This is a talky bore . The first half of the film has a bunch of girls and guys hanging out in a bar drinking and shooting the breeze . Nothing happens much other than the girls run into Stuntman Mike played by Kurt Russell . When they leave some 50 minutes into the film Stuntman Mike does what he does , which is kill the women . The film then shifts gears and we meet a new group of girls who talk for a while before Mike shows up . However these girls aren't like the first and they decide to battle the madman . Painful Absolutely painful . As good as the stunts and crashes are , the dialog is bad . The normally sharp Quentin Tarantio pacing is non existent . Who made this really ? This is an exploitation film of the worst sort - it rips you off . This is also the sort of movie that grind house audiences might have demanded to be removed simply because there simply isn't enough action . I hate this film . On a scale of one to ten , a one , for some great stunts . ( I can not believe that there is a longer cut of this film . Clearly we know what movie is going to be played eternally in hell when we die ) Leave when Death Proof starts and you'll have a great time at the movies .
At best a movie for slow days on cable	Direct to DVD sequel to a sequel ( how many behind Enemy Lines are there anyway ? ) about navy seals trapped between factions in Columbia when a surveillance mission goes wrong and the two sides they were watching are blown up . Hunted by everyone it soon transpires that larger forces are at work and that they may not even be able to trust each other . WWE movie directed by Tim Matheson is a serviceable and watchable film but is also the sort of thing that is doomed to spend its life either forgotten on the video store rental shelves or perhaps popping up occasionally to fill a hole in one of the second or third tier cable network schedule . Its not a bad film , but it's the sort of thing your only going to turn to when every other movie station has nothing on or the sports channels are just showing reruns of the world series of poker . Approach accordingly .
Not particularly much of anything	American sailor has his ship attacked by pirates and ends up ashore in Australia where he falls in love with one of the local women . When the pirates attack the village the sailor has to go off to rescue his lady love . . . only to end up shipwrecked on an island with dinosaurs . Misbegotten adventure film that stands out only because of the dinosaurs in the final minutes , this is a clunky adventure film that isn't very good . One person here on IMDb indicates that this is actually several episodes of an an sold TV show stitched together , which makes perfect sense owing to the compartmentalized structure of the films stories . Not really bad , it is like watching an old TV show that you never heard of for a good reason . I picked up the film because of the dinosaurs on the cover only to later read about how they only show up at the end , and then was shocked at how little even that was . My dislike for the film has nothing to do with the lack of monsters , indeed I was ready to bail on the film early on , but kept going because I wanted to see said beasties . Not worth your time , let alone your money
Worst Pixar feature is a slow dull retread of movies you've seen before	I've seen Cars twice now I didn't like it either time . For me this tale of a jerk who makes good is a technical tour de force as the Pixar animators push the envelope as far as one can in rendering a realistic world in an animated film . I'm not sure if thats a good thing since the cartoonish nature of the cars grates against the realistic world . I found it jarring and unpleasant to look at . It also creeped me out since the eyes of the cars looked dead and unresponsive . Sure the lids lifted and they moved back and forth , but they never changed they always remained static and equidistant . A HUGE problem for me is that the Pixar guys have made a world of cars that looks exactly like our world , but which is is only filled with cars , there are no people . This would be fine except for the fact that if you think about it it doesn't make sense , how could cars have made everything we see ? You can't argue people since we see cars in places they should be in houses and in the race stands . Yes I know its a cartoon , but at the same time it destroys the one thing a cartoon must have to work on any level and that is internal consistency and logic . This film doesn't have it at all . I hated that I felt that I'd seen this movie before a thousand other times in a thousand other movies . It was so bad that I was pretty much guessing what the next line of dialog was going to be . Worse this film felt like an eternity during its time on the screen . If you're going to give me left overs the least you could do is give them to me faster so I don't have time to notice they're stale . Major disappointment from Pixar . ( I saw it the second time because I couldn't believe it was that bad ) Wait for video .
Un focused thriller isn't sure its about the crocodile or the warlords and ends up being about neither	News Team goes to Africa to find and capture a killer crocodile . As they begin their hunt they run afoul of a warlord and have their lives put deeper into peril . Unfocused " horror " film had its release moved up three months for no good reason . Actually I suspect it was to simply kill the suspense and have the film take a loss in the companies ledgers early . This is a movie where almost everything is there , accept a script that makes sense . Why bill it as a horror / suspense film and then ignore that part of the story . Then again the early hype had this implying it was a film about a human serial killer . Low ratings are due to the disappointment . . . . not to mention the fact that the story isn't much of anything .
Thanks to performances that all seem to be in different movies this doesn't amount to much	Remake of Fright Night of sorts with a werewolf instead of a vampire . Amusing in a direct to TV sort of way but best viewed at 3am on SCIFI when you're too tired to actually take any of this seriously . Its does have some good performances ( The two antagonists for example , deserve better ) though they some times run counter to other performances , such as Kevin Sorbo , who play to the audience instead of to the material which creates a knowing edge that lessens any scares . Its a shame that everyone couldn't have been on the same page because there are times when the film has flashes of the minor horror masterpiece this could have been . Worth a shot f you can catch it on TV but otherwise take a pass .
Poor performances and poor direction sink what might have been an okay film	Non-actor Andre Lima stars in a story that mirrors his own story as a fighter who has to return to the ring when his daughter develops a brain tumor and he has get the money some how . The non-acting and unimaginative direction ( its as rudimentary as you can imagine ) kills this film pretty quickly . Its simply too difficult to pay any attention to the non-performances . I know its wrong to criticize people who aren't actors but normally the director can work with an actor to get a performance but here its clear the director either didn't care or wasn't able to try and make the performances into something workable . The only one giving anything like a real performance is Martin Kove as Lima's friend . To be certain it won't kill you if you run across it but its not something to seek out .
Static	This version of the classic story should move like the wind at 62 minutes , instead its slow and talky and not very good . I'm not certain how much is the result of too much time having passed since this film was made , 70 odd years ago and counting , but this is a movie to a avoid simply because time has not been kind to it . The film feels more like a filmed stage play than a movie as there is never any sense place beyond what we would see if it were on a stage . The performances are okay but there are times one wonders if they were aware of that film acting for sound had advanced from the overdone to a more naturalistic style . I don't think it would be fair to comment on the additions and subtractions from the book , especially in light of the fact that they use chapter headings from the book to advance the plot that gallop from one to ten and onward . Not something to watch unless you love the story or hate yourself enough to watch a film thats almost too painful to get through .
Well made revenge tale is severely hobbled in its short version by the loss of everything but the gun fights	A man returns home from the Civil War to find his wife and child have been murdered . He vows revenge and sets off to get it . Before he kills he sets in motion a small mechanical drummer that was one of his son's toys . As the body count increases the town where the killers reside gets nervous wondering who is next . I saw the shorter 75 minute version of this film and can only wonder how this plays in the full 99 minute Italian version . Here the film is a series of brutal gun downs by our " hero " with very little in between them . To be honest the action is not bad , its just that with little more than the gunfights for the first half of the movie any interest is lost before the second half gets under way ( I ended up picking up the paper and reading ) . There is no character development and little plot beyond the quest for revenge and the sheriff trying to stop him by standing around looking concerned . Making things worse is the dubbing which is so loopy as to be nonsensical . This is not a movie I can not recommend , at least in the shorter version , unless you are need to be put to sleep or are trying to see every Spaghetti Western ever made .
Over-rated story of survival	I don't know what to say about this move other than it really didn't movie me . Sure Adrian Brody is excellent as the Pianist of the title who hides out in Warsaw as the city is destroyed around him , but I never really connected to the story . I never really cared . I'm not sure if its poor film making or simply the fact that for me this seemed as been there and done that . Many of the things that I dislike in the well financed movies concerning the Holocaust came into play , in particular the fact that everything looks so nice as to be unreal . I also have the sense that the film is insisting that I like and respect it simply because of the subject matter . Its not that simple you have to give me characters and a good story before I care . Unfortunately while Brody is an excellent actor however I never connected to him . I never had a reason to care other than what happened was truly remarkable , which means this movie meant nothing to me . This film is a major disappointment
Take the stairs	Three people with places to be end up in an elevator in a blackout . The trouble is all of them have secrets one of which is that they are crazy . Really well made film , it has some dynamite visuals , is undone by uneven acting ( Amber Tamblyn is hot and cold ) and a plot that really makes no sense no matter which way you look at it ( The bricked up elevator shaft makes no sense no matter how you explain it ) . Based on a book I'm going to be certain that this is a film that should have remained as a book . It just never makes any real world sense , even allowing for it to be a movie . Those looking for visuals to steal for their own films are directed to give the film a shot , all others are best taking the stairs .
Some weird images and not much sense	Weird exorcist inspired horror film from the man responsible for the Blind Dead films . The story has something about an old witch using the daughter of a politician to get revenge . . . and then something . It wasn't 100 % clear . Creepy at times because of the imagery rather than the story this is a lost little film that probably isn't really a loss being lost . That said I'm going to try to watch this again down the road when its not 2am . Whether you should take a stab at seeing this I'm not sure . Its images aside I'm not sure there is enough to recommend it , though if you get it in a multi-film DVD set like I did I'd give it a shot .
Bad special effects and a way too knowing attitude ruin what should have been a fun flight to disaster	Spoilers AheadBad . why'd have to be bad ? Since Indiana Jones wouldn't take the job they got Samuel L Jackson to do it . And he does it quite well in possibly the only real performance in the entire movie . Okay you know the story : Jackson is taking a witness to a murder from Hawaii to Los Angeles , however the king pin doesn't want the witness to arrive alive so he fills the plane with snakes which come out half way into the flight , the idea being that the plane goes down and no one is the wiser . Pre-sold , ultra-hyped and thought to be a shoe in as a so " bad its good " classic this movie had many people , myself included dying to see it . Yea , well I've seen it and I really wish I hadn't . Clearly made by a committee , this movie is a mess , some of it intentional . The idea was to make throw back to the schlocky 1970's horror movies that played in the drive ins . The problem is that while they got a great deal of it right , at least on paper , they messed up in execution . The story is classic exploitation . That they got right . However they messed up in the way things happen . The snake attacks for example happen in a check list sort of way . Bite naked breast ? Check . Bite guy urinating ? Check ? Giant Snake tries to swallow man ? Check . Its all done as if down a list , and since the list takes priority ( since that's what people want to see ) the rest of the movie becomes a confused mess as the filmmakers try to get the survivors to the next snake attack opportunity . None of it is logical , its just what ever seemed like a good idea at the time to link the " wow " moments . Actually I think the best way to describe it all as a series of punchlines with no set up . The performances are , outside of Jackson either merely adequate or way too knowing . The problem with the movie is this sense of knowing . The films in the 70's were played straight and that's where the charm was . Here the actors and the director let you know that they know you know this is ridiculous and the result is film that borders dangerously on parody . With movies like this you have to either go one way or the other not both . The best way is to go straight and let the audience sort it out . The special effects aren't , what's worse in order to be charming the film intentionally goes for the rubber snakes . It also goes for heavily CGI snakes none of which look even remotely in the film with the actors . Its clear a good portion of the snakes are in that cartoon never-land that is poor special effects . ( when will people learn the reason old special effects tended to work was that we knew on some level these things were there , in some form , with the actors , not completely added later ) This movie is hugely disappointing . It's just a bad movie with some clever bits . Wait for cable .
Film about the monotony of a car assembly line is monotonous	A film about the monotony of building a car on an assembly line . This 72 minute film is a chore to get through , even at high speed . Sue me for giving in to the temptation to hit the fast forward button but I couldn't not do it . Even the mid point intermission where we see the Cintron cars at an auto show and watch and listen to the public talk about the product doesn't help much since many of the people are candidates for being slapped . Then we switch back to the assembly line and I began to nod off . Interesting to a point the lack of narration and music just make this worse than being on the assembly line since the only thing worse than doing a repetitive job is watching it being done .
Crash like look at immigration in the USA collapses in what seems to be self serving film-making	Harrison Ford continues to make me wonder why anyone takes him seriously any more when he turns in another clueless performance in a film made to make those in Hollywood feel good about standing up for social issues . The intersecting tale of various immigrants ( both legal and illegal ) in and around Los Angeles is another attempt at a Crash like film about the worries of the world , in this case the plight of those coming here for a better life . Good looking and meant to be representational the film seems completely wrong and fake with Harrison Ford seemingly lost as an immigration agent who's seen too much but still tries to have a heart of gold ( he's unlike any immigration officer I've ever met ) . There are bits in this film that work but all of them deserve to be in another better film . Forgive me this is one of the recent " message " films that Hollywood has turned out where well to do filmmakers unconnected to the subject they are covering make well intentioned by rather clunky films that are geared toward making themselves feel good but don't really address the situation because they are so full of false notes and contrived situations that no one sees the films since they never ring true . I'm sure everyone had good intentions because the performances and craft are all heartfelt , but the result is either silence or in my case a resounding " oh please " . Those looking to feel good about a subject by watching a film but have no intention of actually doing anything about it are directed to this film . All others should take a pass and go help a neighbor instead .
Much agonizing over past deeds leads to murder and worse	Low budget tale of a Viet Nam vet who goes on a trip to kill his old army buddies who forced him to commit the atrocities he can't live with . This short ( 73 minutes ) film is very talky as everyone agonizes of their past deeds . Well done at times , a rape is particularly unpleasant , it still didn't add up to much for me , probably because I've seen too many Vet who can't cope turns violent films . I think it also doesn't help in that the movie wants to be both a look inside the mind of damaged soldier as well as being an exploitation film . Its not bad , but in the end I was like , so ?
If you like bad movies , here's one to treasure	How cheaply can you make a movie ? Take a couple of actors , have them shoot a few scenes , then splice them in to scenes lifted from a silent film and you've saved a fortune . Such is the case of this story of a jungle expedition gone wrong . Told mostly in flashback by a survivor of the ill fated trip this is a movie that gives penny pinching a rich reputation . Almost the entire film is told in voice over narration and its a scream . Its perfectly awful and a great deal of fun to listen to . The movie itself is a bad movie lovers dream as mismatched silent footage is put together in some really interesting ways . A small white kid travels on the trunk of an elephant , a group of native villagers bounce about at the wrong frame speed , and our hero watches it all in footage with a different grain and normal running speed . This is a bad movie thats fun . Grab the popcorn and some friends and feel free to add your own commentary . Warning : this is not a good movie in the conventional sense . If you want a good movie look elsewhere , but if you want a bad rib tickler look no farther .
Every curse needs to to know when to hang it up and go home	Okay but passionless tale of attempts to end the curse by a Japanese woman who goes from Japan to Chicago where the curse has situated itself in an apartment building . Much too by the numbers to really be considered anything ( you could have called this anything and it wouldn't have mattered ) , this is a film where its clear its time to call an end to the series ( hell , the Japanese did ) . You know you're in trouble when the creepy white skin kid now looks like a not so creepy white skinned teen with a bad haircut . Worse is the fact that the sounds coming from him are badly done and far from creepy . The series has lost its way and become a waste of time .
One of the Most Over Rated Movies in the Last 30 Years	I've seen this movie probably ten times since its been released and I have yet to understand what is so wonderful about it . Its not a matter of looking at it now and wondering if time has over taken it , it never worked for me . For me the film simply was " shocking " to seem clever even though it never really was . Certainly it hard to look at the film now and not think how psychic it was , but I think that was by accident , or perhaps it was the networks simply copying what they saw here and using it to boost their ratings . The story of a network which radically rethinks what its going to broadcast after its anchorman goes mad and decides to kill himself on camera is ripe with possibilities . The film makers certainly explore many of them , but at the same time each time I've watched it I've always been left feeling like I've missed something , or rather that the film is not as clever as it thinks it is . Try it , but don't feel stupid if you don't get it . . . I don't think there is anything to get .
Unevenly paced film ends up being great eye candy and tedious to endure	Zhang Ziyi stars in a tale inspired by Hamlet . When the emperor marries his sons lover the son flees into the country . The Emperor is murdered by his brother who has designs on the wife and wants the son dead . Failing to fall victim to his uncles plot , the son returns to the palace and the family's bickering goes into over drive . The look of this film is mind blowing . from the sets , costumes , action sequences , and even the smallest motions of the actors , nothing seems out of place . This is a world that is both real and unreal . This is a film with a high Gee Whiz factor that must be seen in wide screen . Its a work of visual art . Unfortunately this is tough to sit through . I don't think its a bad film , its just one that I wish would get on with things . Many sequences , especially the action ones , seem to go on and on and on ( especially since they are all shot in stylized slow motion ) . At other times things don't seem to have gone on long enough . Some of Zhang Ziyi early scenes left me a little confused as to what he deal was , she seemed more to be an actress trying to find a character instead of a real person on the screen . And while things got better as the film went on I never really bought her in the later scenes simply because of the fumbling early on . Worth a look for those who love on screen opulence or those who can be a bit more forgiving than I can with the pacing . This would make an interesting double feature with Curse of the Golden Flower , another tale of family dysfunction in ancient China
slow and dull	Slow , unremarkable story about a guy working for a big company looking for oil in the Lebanese desert stumbling upon uranium instead . There's lots of crosses and double crosses and the like but it's played more as soap opera then adventure as a couple of women are thrown into the mix . I watched this for a good half hour with out having any real idea what was going on and never really caring . It seemed to be lots of manly men talking to each other in the radio and ignoring instructions to hang it up and go back to Beirut . I didn't see the point . It picked up after that but the pacing was still such that I found myself nodding off . To be honest it was nice to see a very young , almost unrecognizable Omar Sharif in a supporting role , but the movie is a snoozer and its going into my case of DVDs I can fall asleep to .
Not as clever mix of drama and horror with a thing in the basement	Just okay horror film about a nice suburban family dealing with the death of their parents and the " thing " in the basement that they keep feeding people they pick up off the street . Of course there is more to it then that but to say more would be telling . For me this just didn't come together as it tries to have it two ways both as a family drama and a horror film . the film tries very hard to walk the cutting edge between the two genres but seems more to stumble all over the place as it tries to be shocking , something it never really is . It doesn't help that the final revelation is less a scare then an " oh " , as on " Oh thats it ? " . Maybe if I hadn't been watching so many horror films recently this might have been better or it may have just seemed it since I wouldn't have compared it to so much . I'd take a pass
Tyler Perry misses the mark this time out	Tyler Perry's tale of four couples who go off every year to explore their relationships only to find that this year things are not as ducky as they seemed . Perry , a force Hollywood doesn't understand , is rapidly becoming a name to reckon with at the box office . Aside from his Daddy's little Girls , his films have all made money at the box office despite Hollywood pundits predictions they wouldn't . Here Perry again steps away from his Medea character to look at the lives of 8 friends . Like all of Perry's films the fact that the characters are black doesn't mean that the lives on screen aren't universal . Perry has a knack for fashioning very real people with very real problems . Except that in this film Perry has gone too far into the universal and into the cliché . From the set up you can tell how this is all going to play out and the film quickly deteriorates into a lesson about how people should be have rather than a drama exploring peoples lives . I don't know if its because Perry is busy with his TV show and other film projects , but this film doesn't have the sharpness in the writing of his other films . To be certain Perry has learned how to direct and act ( a problem that plagued the the Medea films he directed ) unfortunately he seems to have lost the craft of constructing a real life story line . I'm a fan of Perry's because he is very capable of turning out real and funny material , unfortunately this film just misses the mark and isn't really worth paying big bucks to see .
Why should we care ?	Having sat through the movie Wonderland I am at a loss to explain what its about . I think its about John Holmes ' involvement in the murders that occurred on a street called Wonderland , but I'm not sure . Actually thats exactly what its about , the problem is that the film is so convoluted with a bad Rashamon style of many people telling versions of the same story that you end up with no idea what really happened , and not caring that you don't . The film isn't bad , it just leaves you with a feeling that you have only slightly more information than you did prior to going in , and even then you're not to sure . Well , really there is one thing you're sure of , John Holmes was a jerk . I don't hate the film , I don't really like the film , I just sort of think its there and existing in a pointless place in the universe . There is no reason for this to exist simply because the film isn't clear what its about or whats going on and most importantly why we should care . This is a bunch of not nice people doing not nice things to each other and we are suppose to care . I think not . The one positive thing the movie did is get me interested in finding out what really happened . I have a need to get past the he said she said style of film making and to simply know what happened . If you're interested rent this but don't plunk down more than a rental fee for this film . Its not worth it .
Bland werewolf movie is more action film than monster movie and really should have gone straight to TV	( I'm going to pick on the movie - its an okay film that doesn't need to be seen on the big screen - wait for cable . I say this up front because I'm rather mean in what follows owing to the fact this should have been so much better ) Stan Winston produces a rather weak effects movie about werewolves , well I think there are werewolves . Honestly there's more shoot outs then there are wolf scenes , whats up with that ? Then again nothing in this film is even remotely as good looking as the poster ( even the naked wolf chick ) The plot has a bunch of werewolves looking for a kid who in a few days will turn thirteen and effectively change everything . This is a low budget de facto TV movie thats been bumped up on to the big screen . Its a typical been there and done that Us vs Them secret society tale ( ala Underworld ) that operates in the back woods of America . A woods thats pretty much missing any real people so that when the biker wolves come to town and a fire fight ensues no one thinks much of it . Shot in a style that looks great but which borrows so much from so many other movies ( the current vogue of jittery camera , the up close in your face style that eliminates any real sense of place and space , the occasional awesome mood shot that looks good but serves no purpose ) this is a film that pretty much will blend with the crowd of other similar movies and end up being forgotten . Its a shame that this is going to be forgotten because there are some really good characters , the people taking care of the kid deserve a better film since there is a movie about them waiting to be made , unfortunately this isn't it . ( and I will not go into the grand WTF ending which really does make you go WTF ) As much as I'm picking on it it is an okay movie , but asking 11 bucks for what is , as I said , a TV movie with some violence and one sex scene is asking too much . Had this been a Scifi original this would have played so much better . Then again all kidding aside , as much as I bust on this film , its better than the last couple of werewolf films like Blood and Chocolate , even if the wolves are less than spectacular in a Lon Chaney meet the Klingons sort of way .
Try to see the full performance of Monster , not this abbreviated version	Never having seen Dylan Moran perform live I had the misfortune of going to see a taping of Monster for BBC America . The taping was short confused and felt like the series of punchlines to longer jokes . Walking out of the taping with some friends we figured that there had to be some reason that Moran had a hit TV show and sold out concerts around the world , some reason we were missing . When the show finally aired on TV it was further cut down to fit in an hour time slot with commercials and comedy inserts . What aired was neither an accurate representation of Dylan Moran's scathing wit nor of his full piece Monster ( nor even what the show was like as taped ) . This is more a cut and toned down version of the full show seemingly pieced together in order to be a best of Moran with his longer better routines cut down into bite sized pieces . If this is the only way you can see Moran perform live then by all means watch this , however if you really want to see him in his full glory try to get your hands on the full performance of Monster ( which is available everywhere other than the US ) or his other show called Like , Totally .
Modern attempt at Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is an okay knowing comedy but where Plaid was mostly old footage , this is mostly new	I had a bit of hope for this hour long film made up of footage from old Poverty Row movies . Certainly it had the possibility to seem like more than a home video mass marketed to the world . Unfortunately while funny this movie still feels like a home movie , but with stock footage spliced in . The plot concerns the planned reading of a will on a liner at midnight somewhere in the tropics . The ship sinks and well . . . thats the movie . The film promises Karloff , Lugosi , Chaney and others being lifted from old movies to interact with new footage . We get that alright , but mostly we get lots of new video footage made to look like scratchy black and white film , in which new actors prance about . Old footage is inter-cut mostly to set the scene , but very little of the old and new actually matches so its clearly just a put on . Its not very convincing and is very disappointing for someone like me was looking for a better constructed film . Still if you know and love the old Poverty Row films , ( its very spoofy ) this might be worth a viewing . I would warn against buying this but it can be had for about five bucks , the price of a rental ) so the choice is yours ( Though if you can get away with not paying for it do so ) . Disappointing .
Points for being different , though for not much else	In the wilds of Canada about the goings on in a small town near a mine . Its a tale of two groups living uneasily and the poor dumb kids who want to marry and the Dukabor troublemaker who has a hold over the boys father and much of the town . Its a messy affair that really doesn't make a great deal of sense . Its not a unwatchable film , its just different enough from the typical dramas you run across to make it worth a shot , unfortunately it isn't good enough that you'll be thrilled when you get to the end of its 80 odd minutes . Given the choice I'd take a pass , but if you get roped into viewing it you could do worse . ( Though the music in this film is completely and utterly wrong )
Foirgettable	big brother meets survivor as nine people are locked in a house and told only one will live to collect the five million dollar prize . This is a been there and done that in the extreme , with riffs from other better movies stolen . Whats worse then the fact that the film is so derivative is the fact that it changes the rules a couple of times . I hate when films do that since its a clear sign that the filmmakers were not clever enough to work out a clear plot . Clkealry they didn't trust themselves to come up with a fair way to the end . Flaws aside this is still watchable in an undemanding mood-though it is quite forgettable which is good since its not something you'll recommend
Uneven and not too bad kids film	On the English language DVD I saw this is called Impy's Wonderland . German made animated film isn't bad , nor is it very good . Its about a year old dragon ( or dinosaur with wings ) living on a island with other talking animals and people who is tempted away from his island by a millionaire who needs monsters for his amusement park . The animation is uneven with it hovering around TV quality material . The plot and such is too dull to amount to much . I don't know if its the English dub or if the original German was just as bland since th copy I saw only was dubbed . There is some connection to an earlier version of the characters on a German TV show , but I don't know anything about it other than the connections I can gather up from the IMDb listings . There are better ways to spend your cash then renting or seeing this , but if you do get stuck watching it you probably won't pluck your eyes out .
Funnier than usual send up of recent horror films	One of the funnier entries in the Scary Movie series has dead on spoofs of War of the Worlds , Japanese Horror films , the Village and other recent horror and non horror films . Amazingly most of the jokes work , something that couldn't be said about the first three films . The problem here is that each joke seems to have too long a set up . Clearly the fact that the movie has a plot gets in the way as the movie has to build to each joke . Its not bad but I don't think that I should have to pay ten bucks for a movie thats half jokes and half set up . Still if you like these things what I say isn't going to change your mind . AT some point someone should just cut all of the jokes from all of the movie together and then we'd have something worth paying for .
Not Quite but Almost	This is the story of one man stranded in an airline terminal when his country goes through political upheaval while he was in transit . I'm told its based on a true story , but any connection between this movie and reality is a mistake . Steven Spielberg is a good filmmaker . For years he's cranked out film classics . The problem is that many of them exist with in their own reality which isn't even remotely real . This is film suffers from this problem in spades . I never once felt that this film was even remotely real on any level what so ever . SPOILERS AHEAD You'll forgive me but I couldn't ever really accept anything in this film . For example , and in order , Why is Hanks the only one with this problem ? Why does person after person talk to Hanks but no one gets a interpreter ? Why is Hanks simply turned loose into the terminal when he can barely speak English ? How does Hanks pick up English so fast ? I could go on for almost every plot twist but I won't . END SPOILERSThis is a well made but completely unreal film . Since the situations were unreal I couldn't care what happen to anyone in the film since they seemed so unreal , Hanks first and foremost . His whole character was simply a bad Russian like accent . Its not bad , its just not anything you care about . Four out of Ten .
Disappointing remake / rethink of a 1960 semi-classic	Not quite as good tale of a girl granted visions of hell in the hopes that she will warn people into being good . Similar to the 1960 film Jigoku ( Hell ) this film shows us what happens to various bad people once they get to hell . Watch a cult leader kill hundreds , watch a child molester kill young girls then watch them tortured in hell , on and on with little variation . One of the problems with the film is its so matter of fact . It starts , we are put into the basic situation which is just repeated over and over again . Its so matter of fact that there is no emotional involvement , there is no connection . The effects are just middling with any effect in the viewer borders on laughter since they often are more silly rather than horrifying . If you compare this film to the original you see the opposite . You get an emotional involvement and a sense of horror , despite the quaint effects , because of it . For all its flaws the original is far superior to this film . Rental the original and skip this remake .
Old school monster on the loose tale is one of Willis O'Beiens worst efforts	The problem with High Def TVs and old films is perfectly shown by BEAST FROM HOLLOW MOUNTAIN , this was , I think , Willis O'Brien's last film . An old school movie that predates Harryhausen's Valley or Gwangi , its about a T-Rex loose in Mexico . Painfully dull until the monster begins the rampage ( I mean PAINFUL ) the film really isn't that good . The monster isn't much better than what O'Brien did in the Lost World or King Kong . Clearly his better days were past him as the effects , while serviceable look no better and no more realistic than what many amateur film makers cranked out ( look at the end of the monster in the swamp and be appalled . ) The problem is that in High Def the color photography goes wildly grainy when you get the process shots combining the animated monster and the real people . Its awful looking almost like a blizzard . I know the problem is that the film was made cheaply and was never meant to be seen that clearly , but this is awful . . . as is the movie . . . except for the rampage which is fun in truly bad sort of way
Despite an intriguing title character this is a confused comic based movie	I was drawn in by the sight of the title character in pictures . He's a tall bald guy with a snake on either shoulder ( or is it a two headed snake wrapped around his shoulders ? ) Sometimes I should just not be so curious . The plot has some people discovering a buried pyramid . A group of them go into explore . A woman in the group , off on her own sees something get out of a crypt and leave the pyramid . When the group investigates they find nothing , only bodies outside . Soon after this Zuma , the guy from the crypt and who is a tall bald green guy with really big snakes on his shoulders , comes across a camping couple . He sets poisonous snakes on the man and then rapes and makes a slave of the woman . Bodies begin to pile up as the woman and Zuma , sporting a trench coat and a very large straw hat begin to eat their way across the country side . Zuma is captured and the woman is thrown in to prison . The military not standing on ceremony locks the green man in a cage and then fires several hundred rounds from a machine gun at him . When that doesn't work , they blast him with cannon fire and end up burying him in an avalanche . Where most movies would fade out at that point Zuma is only getting started , its only been 35 minutes and there is still 90 more to go . Truly one of the wildest movies I've ever seen , this is is a long movie that never seems to end . Zuma returns , there's a child , years pass and we get to see one of the worst wigs in movie history . Its a dense , often talky movie that wears out its welcome after a short time . As I watched this I kept hoping that there would be a commercial or two to break up he monotony . I'm completely unfamiliar with the comic its based upon , but I'm forced to wonder if it was really necessary to compress the entire run into 125 minutes . Zuma has an interesting look . The snakes on his shoulders are clearly mechanical , however considering when and where tit was done its actually quite good . Over all this is not something you really want to waste your time on . If you run across it take a pass . If you really must see Zuma in action then see if you can find the trailer on line or if you can talk your way into borrowing it from some sucker who owns a copy . . Potentially interesting story rather dully told .
Tale of two girls , robbery and torture	Two young girls travel the country side and spend some time in a secluded and seemingly unoccupied house . When some people show up they get mixed up with some torture and stolen jewels . Odd film seems to be a porno film with the sex cut out . Reasonably well acted with a good looking cast this is an off beat little " thriller " that isn't really much of anything . its not bad , but it isn't really worth bothering with on its own ( I got this part of a 20 film DVD set and as part of that the film was worth trying but had I picked it up on its own I would have been rather upset ) . If you don't spend any money on it
Classic bad movie is still tough going	A new Planet is found and a rocket is sent off to investigate it . Once it arrives the planet is found to be full of giant animals and dinosaurs . El-cheapo production from Bert I Gordon is so full of stock footage one wonders why they bothered to shoot any new footage at all . Watching this again last night I was shocked to find that in the first ten minutes that there was maybe only four shots ( those of the stars ) that weren't taken from somewhere else . Its gets better after that , but at the same time the story doesn't . Here's proof that they don't make them like they used to any more , thank god . I doubt very much you could cut together this much stock footage and pass it off as a " new " movie and with out an audience screaming for its money back . The effects are regular critters on small sets superimposed behind our stars . Its par for the course for the day , but its unevenly handled , with the stuff lifted from One Million BC looking better than Gordon's new footage . This is a classic bad movie . My rating of is based upon viewing it as a bad movie . Those looking for jaw dropping inept film making need look no father . If one wanted to look at it as a normal movie then this would be hovering somewhere around zero .
You'll notice the artifice more than the art	Story of the life and times of Abel Edwards , or more to the point his clone . The original Edwards was a Walt Disney like film maker / business man who died on the eve of the opening of his Florida theme park . decades later , after mankind has moved into space when a deadly virus reduced human population by 90 % the Abel Edwards corporation is floundering . In an effort to get back on track they decide to clone their founder and so begins the life and times of the clone . We watch in flashback the life of the clone Edwards as his life is recounted at a probate hearing concerning his wealth and company . this off beat film with echoes of Disney and Citizen Kane was shot entirely on green screen sets . The fact that I'm recounting that first kind of tells you I'm not particularly fond of the film , since there isn't much to say beyond that . An okay film , that is almost bland . This is the life of a man who is not his own , it's an interesting concept but it never really amounts to much with the story kind or arcing in ways that you can kind of predict . It doesn't help that the green screen sets are unevenly handled and while their use clearly allowed for the film to be made cheaply , the effect is far from realistic . The effect is similar to several films released to DVD by Alpha Video under their New Cinema banner rather than things like Sky Captain , Immortal or any other film shot similarly , However you forgive cheapness in the Alpha titles since they somehow make it charming and here they really don't . Despite some occasionally beautiful black and white images this really doesn't have much to recommend it and given the choice I'd take a pass . ( I somehow think that with out Steven Soderbergh's name attached as a producer this film would have been buried )
More clever than funny , this movie is almost devoid of laughs despite some game tries by the cast	Shrek's father in-law dies and Shrek and Fiona are next in line . . Shrek , having been standing in for the king knows this is not the life for him so he goes off to find Artie , a kid also in line for the throne . If you've seen anything on this you've probably seen most of what passes for the jokes . This is not a funny movie , It is well plotted , but seemingly devoid of any laugh out loud humor . I sat there for the entire running time straight faced . I can admire the animation , I can admire the cleverness of " the jokes " and I can admire the too many " in " references , but I can't find it funny . ( well thats not true , the Shrek baby stuff at the end is funny ) If you want what I think is the perfect example of whats wrong with the film take the funeral for the king . The king has died and we hear Paul McCartney's live and Let Die ( you know the James Bond theme song ) . Why ? I have no clue . . . actually after what seems like an eternity fumbling around for a punch line we see a choir of frogs singing the song , Two minutes of screen time for a throw away joke about a short film that Paul McCartney produced that almost no one has seen in the US-Rupert and the Frog Song . The film is full of set ups to jokes that are so obscure that not even Jude would get them . ( see what I'm getting at Thomas ? ) The humor is either obvious slapstick or these obscure duds . Clearly this what happens when you get too many animators and lock them in a room with a predetermined release date . Whats worse this seems like a ( better ) version of the dreadful Happily N'ever After so that those of us who suffered through that piece of horse hockey , get to watch a chunk of the plot reused ( to better effect ) here . Shrek three can't win for losing . Wait for Cable
Stating the obvious in a scandalous manner	Forgive me but I find it well meaning trash . But it is trash . Of course I feel for everyone and yes its clear the health care system is broken but ultimately this movie is more manipulation than anything . Yes its nice and all but it doesn't do anything . Slanted to a fault ( how could it not be ) its Moore telling you something is wrong but not really offering any real solutions . ( Hi - your house is on fire and your neighbors isn't , you point is what ? ) I can see why its dying at the box office , there is nothing you haven't seen before or nothing that hasn't been discussed on TV . Fahrenheit 911 at least made you think and laid out why we were in the crappy situation , Sicko is just " This is bad " . Like his earlier Bowling for Columbine the film is very much a set up , especially in the second half where Moore's antics or at least his camera crew and presence result in some staged scenes-the whole Cuba thing . My reaction during most of it was " Yes and ? " Forgive me but I really didn't like the film much . I don't need a rich film maker telling me " You're doomed " for two hours and then offering no real solutions other than universal health care - which he knows will be difficult to get by congress . What can I say but it would be nice to be able to clip off a check for 12 grand to send it to some one who hates me so they can pay their medical bills . Its a well made manipulative film , but other than inducing anger and depression it doesn't enlighten or point away anywhere , well it does - anywhere but the US - then again it doesn't show you the downside of not being here . Is it worth seeing ? No , not really . I think you'll get more out of a discussion on a TV news program ( so long as its not on FOX )
For Milligan fans only	Dysfunctional family goes home for the holidays and murder and mayhem result . Violent sexy Milligan at his most home made . Little better than a home movie ( as much of Milligans films are ) this is a trip into depravity 1960's style . Notable for the copious nudity and sex this film is neither sexy nor gruesome , playing now more as quaint . ( though decidedly r rated ) . The film suffers from its uneven cast and from the cheapness of the production . ( No one was ever sure where the money went on his movies since he was always broke ) . Its a bad bad movie thats not worth seeing except as a Milligan completeist or because its got some good looking people fooling around .
This could have worked if it didn't seem like every other independent film out there	Independent urban drama about a guy wondering if there is more to life then hanging out with his friends in the gang . As an opportunity to advance comes along he has to decided which way to go since his girlfriend gives him an ultimatum . Well made independent film that looks like a hundred other independent films . Good enough to wish it didn't seem like so many other films . I'm all for the ability for people to make films on their own but what ever happened to the idea that independent films were fresh and original . The script and the actors are here but the direction and look of the film in utterly interchangeable with so many other films I've seen recently . Worth a look only if you don't watch a great deal of independent films .
Excellent pieces make a less than good thriller	In the house where Marie Latour , a woman supposedly a werewolf , once lived a museum dedicated to the occult is set up . Latour had disappeared years before after killing her husband who discovered her secret . Years later the daughter of Latour returns and takes steps to make sure that her mother's grave and the secret temple are not desecrated . Confused and confusing supernatural tale seems to be trying to do Cat People one better but actually ends up several worse . Honestly this film is a bit of a mess story-wise . Watching this on DVD I even watched some scenes twice and had no idea what was going on . I honestly had no real idea what was going on and what the point of it all was . The problem is not so much the individual scenes but the complete lack of an idea about what the film is about . Yes the film has plot branches , but it doesn't have a central trunk , or at least a strong one to support all of the ideas . I'm not sure the film is really worth seeing . Pieces are , the opening of the film with a tour of the museum is fantastic . ( Actually all of the bits are really good ) The trouble is it never amounts to much beyond the pieces .
Mickey Rooney gives a tour de force performance in a weird little horror film that is difficult to watch because he's so out there	Mickey Rooney lets loose in a strange little film . Rooney plays a deranged makeup man who kidnaps a young woman and then holds her in an old warehouse full of props , forcing her to act in his movie while he drifts in and out of reality . To say that this two person film is strange is an understatement . Its clear why Rooney agreed to do the film since it lets him do things that he never got to do with Judy Garland or as Andy Hardy . Whats not so clear is why we'd want to watch it since its 90 minutes trapped with a psycho . This isn't to knock Rooney's performance , rather its to praise it since this clearly isn't a guy we want to have over for dinner . I'm on the fence about this film . I can't really recommend it for any reason other than being able to see Mickey Rooney let go . However if you want to see what else Rooney could do beyond the typical see this movie . Everyone else stay away .
not very interesting story of kids behaving badly	Based on a true story movie is less interesting than the controversy surrounding it - the murder case is due to go to trial at any moment and people are afraid the movie would taint the jury pool . The ads say based on the story of the youngest person on the FBI most wanted list . Truth is its a lot of young guns behaving badly in the story of a drug dealer who killed the brother of someone who owed him money in order to make a point . Twenty minutes in its clear that these are a bunch of not very bright people doing not very interesting bad things . If there had been no controversy it would have been straight to DVD , where we could have forgotten it even faster .
Poor shot on video horror film	Shot on video tale of a member of a film crew taking a haunted object home from a shoot and having her life turned upside down . Poorly acted and adequately shot this is an on the cheap straight to video from Hong Kong thats like many films like this a bit too knowing for its own good . Certainly its not quite like a Troma film , but there is a sense of make believe that permeates these films that prevent you from ever believing a frame of it . . . . ( which is sad since the first film in the series is very good ) This is one of a growing number of shot on video cheapies that seem to flooding the Asian horror market ( and even the direct to video markets else where in the world ) . While I admire that we are getting some good films , I hate that we are getting too many films like this which are being made with little care and purely to make a buck , there by undercutting a decent cast trying to actually give performances .
The cast is there , the scenes work but it never comes together	Updating of the Clare Booth Luce play and the 1939 movie is a major disappointment . The cast of women is excellent , most of the individual scenes work but nothing hangs together . There is no connection from scene to scene almost as if the film was crafted in parts and then assembled in a vacuum . Granted the story of a woman dealing with her husband's infidelity and how she is helped and hindered by her friends is a less shocking one now in an age when divorce is so common , but at the same time its just as timely as ever , I just wish they could have managed to connect all of the pieces together because as it stands now you really don't feel pulled along by the plot . Wait for Cable .
Beautifully animated film is let down by a weak script	The plot of this film concerns the son of a janitor at Yankee Stadium named Yankee Irving , who has to go off to rescue the stolen bat of Babe Ruth . The bat was stolen by a pitcher on the Chicago Cubs who would only be allowed to pitch if he retrieved the bat so the Babe wouldn't be able to hit in the World Series . Its a weak story . The problem is that the story is trying very hard to have a point , that anyone can be a hero , that it loads itself up with clichés ( For example the hobos with hearts of gold ) and pat moments ( there is no racism ) that you never really fear for our hero or his quest . The plot completely falls apart at the end with a twist that is so dumb that it breaks believability ( guess who hits a home run in the world series ? ) . Its a disappointment . The sad thing is that this film does have some pluses . William Macy's villain is absolutely vile . He's one of the great bad guys in years . You really do hate this guy . He's a fantastic antagonist for our hero and in a better film he would have been dynamite , instead he's wasted in a series of cheap gags who's punchlines are telegraphed way in advance . Yet its because he's the perfect evil force to Yankee Irving's hero that you continue to watch , just so you can see him get his just desserts . The film also has a design that is beautiful to look at . Say what you will about the recent glut of computer animated films , this is possibly the most realistic of the lot . Its shot , for the most part like a live action film and it adds a nice dimension to the film . This is the first of the lot that really should have been made into 3D . I am in love with the idea of the train sequence in 3D . Ultimately its a miss fire . Its a film with some good stuff and some bad stuff , that some how manages to trip itself up . Wait for cable
Good cast and great photography are done in by a script that doesn't have enough action	Rene Ray is a young girl who goes to London to find a job . Unfortunately she runs into Robert Newton who is being hunted by a gang of gamblers he double crossed . Newton had been stabbed and dies in Ray's hotel room leading the police to think she killed him . Ray goes to find Newton's brother , played by John Mills , and he takes pity on her unaware at first that she is being sought for the killing of his brother . Moody crime film based on a Graham Greene story looks at times to be the the brother of another Green adaptation The Third Man . Shot with dark shadows that make London's poorer sections look like Harry Lime's stomping ground this is a great film to look at . Had it been made ten years later it would have fit very nicely into the Film Noir catalog . I really like the look and feel of this film a great deal . The problem with the film is that there are long stretches where not much happens . The plot of a wrongly accused woman is something that Hitchcock would have turned into a tightly wound thriller . Here its a meandering mood piece with the audience waiting to see what happens when John Mills finds out the lady he is falling for is accused of killing his brother . There are some nice action pieces , but mostly its a good deal of talk and emoting . Its not a bad film , its just not a particularly exciting one . I'd wait to see if this turns up on cable .
good if you like grade Z entertainment	Set in Coney Island this is the story of a psycho killing people on the midway . I'll leave the actual plot for you to work out when you see this . This is one of those so bad its good movies , one where your jaw hangs open in disbelief at whats going on . Take for example the music . Its folk music . Why ? I have no idea . I don't think anyone who had a brain cell couldn't see that the music chosen has nothing to do with whats going on on screen . Its so opposite to what you are seeing it grates on you . Its occasionally acted and partially written which makes it somewhat watchable . Its a movie to get drunk and watch laugh at . Its interesting to watch the carnival scenes since its incredibly obvious that they are filming at an operating carnival since people are constantly looking at the actors in a puzzled manner . The crowd scenes after the opening decapitation are fall down funny . As is the response time of the police and medics to the crime scene , never has help arrived that fast in New York . If you're in the mood for grade Z entertainment I recommend the film for a nights rental .
Visually awesome this film will be little more than eye candy if you haven't played the game . I haven't played it and found it a painful experience	I'm bound to be disliked by the legion of of Final Fantasy fans who have rated this film highly but I have to disagree and say that the film , for anyone other than some one familiar with the games , is going to be a long dull haul . Let me go on record as saying that this is one of those eye popping jaw dropping visual experiences that makes me realize just how special movies are . There are sights in this movie that will impress even the most jaded of movie goers . Wow . If one is telling a story one generally needs more than pure visuals . Sure great visuals can cover plot holes but at the end of the day you need something , characters people can relate to and a plot that has a beginning , middle and end . Here the story is a continuation of a video game . There is some attempt at bringing viewers up to speed , but for the most part the film assumes you know whats gone before and what the previous relationships are , if you don't its too bad for you . Or Me . I never played the game and was ultimately lost fifteen minutes in . I had no idea why anything was happening since all motivation happened prior to the movie I was watching . I went from " Oh Wow " about the visuals to yawning because I became so lost I didn't care . Sure the visuals occasionally carried the day , but most of the time they ended up wasted on a film that will only mean something to a small select group of game fans . I was so disappointed because with out a plot even the visuals began to lose their appeal ( or at least look like the video game that they sprang from ) . Can I recommend this visually impressive film thats short on plot ? That depends . If you want to see some sparkling visuals and don't mind the lack of plot , do see this since it will knock your socks off ( Try for the best possible conditions - big TV and great sound ) . If you are a fan of the game see this film since it will mean something to you . If you need a plot , if you need more than visuals , then the choice is yours as to whether you see it since odds are you'll be snoozing . .
Some really clever bits are done in by an annoying Jack Black and limited vocabulary	The story of how Tenacious D came together . This is a movie I can admire more than I can like . I like the fact its got whole passages that are sung , I like the weird trips it takes , I like the craft of the film . In its way its a bastard sibling of Idlewild and its go for broke atmosphere . Unfortunately what its trying to do and what it does in spurts doesn't amount to add up to much . Jack Black plays Jack Black in his real annoying mode and while this does count for something some times , mostly I wanted to slap him and say grow up . The use of oral sex related terms is easily to be counted as way too obsessive . The words are not the sort of things that bleed into the background , and while I'm no prude , I wonder how a movie that is often as visually stunning and as clever as this one is can have such a limited vocabulary when it comes to dialog . The effect is to lessen everything else . That said its not a bad movie but its not as good as it should have been , nor is it one thats going to bear repeat viewings .
Gothic drama set in post WW2 England tries too hard to me more than what it is and ends up seeming a bit too snobbish	When a mine collapses destroying the homes built on top of it , the three sisters of the the family that owned the mine promise to rebuild the homes . This doesn't sit well with their brother who now lives in the city and is the real source of money for the family . Returning home in order to straighten out the situation , he soon finds that all is not well in the old homestead , and his life is in grave danger . A post war-Gothic tale with a great deal on its mind this is a movie that never really works . Graced with a script that was written in part by Dylan Thomas the dialog is often very literate in a way that real people never talk . The writing does provide for some very wicked exchanges between the characters but it never really comes to life . Some of the miners are just a bit too poetic about the tragedy that has befallen their small town . Thematically the film is about the clash of the old and the stayed with the new and the modern . I mention this because the film seems much more interested in ideas than it is in any real action . We have the three sisters who never left home and want to rebuild things the way they were battling their brother and his secretary who have come from the outside and want live in the present and deal with the situation as it is . Its a battle that forms the basis , in one way or another , for almost every scene often to the detriment of the drama . Everything seems to be arranged to have some deep meaning from the aliments of the sisters to the crumbling nature of the manor house . I wasn't watching a movie so much as a dramatized argument for the modern ; there aren't people on the screen rather they are ideas . I applaud the filmmakers for wanting to make a movie that is more than a Gothic drama , but they went the wrong way and forgot the drama . Honestly this is a tough movie to get through , its 80 minutes long and feels like twice that in the lecture hall . As good as the basic plot line is the execution makes this a film I doubt I'll ever watch again . Worth a shot if you don't mind seeing a literate drama that tries too hard and just misses being something special
Unpleasant fact based tale of a life cut short in a most horrifying manner	Told in mostly in flashback this film is about the police investigation into the remains that are found in an apartment , and more to the point a Hello Kitty Mermaid which has been optically censored out of the film because Sanrio was unhappy . ( This is based on a true story and parts of the woman really were found in the Hello Kitty doll . ) What we find out is that the victim was a girl who made a wrong turn and life and the downward spiral lead to prostitution and worse . It all ends after she steals some money and she's brutalized to the point of death . The killers then dispose of the body in the title manner . This is a really unpleasant film . Its low budget adds a grittiness to to it . With in its limited budget its not a bad looking film which adds to the nastiness . The trouble is that the script is a meandering mess going from unpleasant person to unpleasant situation . We get to see more than we ever wanted about the lives of everyone involved . The only one you really feel for is Maggie , but even then you grow weary waiting for the inevitable . On some level I feel that the director's desire to do something with the story clashed with budget concerns and a need to make an exploitive film that would return its cost and so they ended up with a film thats neither socially relevant nor good exploitation . I don't like this movie much . Granted it gets points for provoking a reaction of horror and disgust , but at the same time it shouldn't be coupled with the question " Why are you watching this then ? " . What bothers me about the film is that I'm intrigued with it as close representation of what really happened . Its ghoulish , but it won't allow me to totally dismiss the film even though I really should . I can't recommend it since it is a really ugly movie , but its there if you want to try it , although you'll probably question why you're watching it . Rated because I'm so conflicted about the movie even though it should probably be lower .
The sort of thing you'll watch once and never need to see again	Film that is for ever in the dollar rack has aged badly , I remember this playing so much better back in 1982 . James Earl Jones stars in a monster tale set in and around Greece . It has to do with an ancient monster lurking around and eating virgins . its the sort of thing you've seen a dozen times before both better and worse . Its not bad movie as such but there is way too much talk and nowhere near enough monster . The film taken for what it is isn't bad but it promises way more than it delivers . Actually it delivers little , but it does keep you watching . If you're stuck watching it it won't kill you . Its also the sort of thing that once you watch it you can use the DVD as a coaster .
Enjoyment of this film will depend on how you take to Walter Connolly's titled character , I found him slighting annoying	Walter Connolly plays GK Chesterton's classic character is an okay adaptation of the stories . Following the basic plot used in the better Alec Guiness film Father Brown is attempting to stop the thief Flambeau ( Paul Lukas ) from stealing a diamond encrusted cross that is in the possession of his Parrish . Actually Brown doesn't care so much about saving the cross as saving Flambeau . Amusing at times with some great discussions between Flambeau and Brown , enjoyment of the film will hinge on whether Connolly's Brown clicks with you or not . I found him okay , but often grating , the result of his trying too hard to be something approximating the character . For me it boiled down to there being more than a few times when he was a collection of ticks and gestures and such that never really jelled as if he felt he had to do X , Y or Z to be the character instead of just being ( which he did do in many scenes at which time the film worked ) . Ultimately its not a bad film , its one that just sort of misses and its easy to see why this isn't as well known as the Guiness film . Worth a look if you run across it , but not worth searching out . between 5 and
Neither the mystery nor the expose promised by either of the films titles .	A young rich woman named Martha , , who's mother died while she was off partying in Europe , is trying desperately to contact her mother on the other side . She is loved by a reporter who's chances with her are ruined when an editor turns a friendly puff piece on the girl into something more sinister . Martha meanwhile has become acquainted with a mystic , the Great LaGagge , who promises to put the woman in contact with her mom , however he really wants her money . When woman dies at LaGagge's temple he is forced to flee , however before he does he arranges for Martha to go off on a around the world trip to mystic places , Egypt and India where he will guide her into giving over her money to him . The reporter not one to give up easily gives chase . Odd mix of mystery and expose of the medium racket ultimately falls between the too posts being neither revealing ( very little is actually exposed ) nor very mysterious ( of the two deaths only one is murder and we know who did that ) . Its not a bad movie and it does work as a drama , but it'd not something that works as advertised . I don't know what else to say beyond that .
Unremarkable comic adaptation is good but ultimately forgettable time killer	I've read the manga and seen the anime . I've now seen the live action film and like the earlier versions of the story I was entertained but not overly so . The plot of the movie has a girl witnessing the assassin known as the Crying Freeman killing several targets . ( He's so named because he sheds a tear for each person he kills ) . She flees the scene of the crimes , and then waits for him to find and kill her . He does find her , but he does not kill her . They end up together . This turn of events along with a power void at he top of yakuza brings about a series of bloody clashes . A workman like production , this is a good little thriller that's not particularly special . It plays in many ways like a supped up TV movie , having the feel of a production that was made with an eye on every market in the world . Its a movie that will entertain you but won't stay with you very long after you've seen it . Honestly this version of the story made the least impression of all on me and I had to sit and think a while to try to remember , if indeed I really saw this movie or not . Certainly not a bad movie , its more middle of the pack . Its the type of thing that will entertain you while its on but won't really hang around in your head for very long after you've finished watching it . If you run across it on TV its worth trying . To be honest the worst thing that I can say about it is even though the actor playing our hero has no presence its still an enjoyable time waster .
Legendary road accident of a film is interesting in the " I can't believe this was actually made " sort of way	Odds are you have never seen The Phynx and for good reason . This is the deformed beast of a child that Hollywood wants to keep locked up in the attic . Its the hell-spawn of the youth movement and the old embalmed generation coming together to make . . . something . The basic plot concerns the SSA ( Super Secret Agency ) attempting to rescue the icons of American culture that have been kidnapped and brought to Albania . Who are the great icons ? George Jessel , Rudy Vallee , Edgar Bergan , Huntz Hall , Leo Gorcey , Joe Louis , Col . Sanders , Xavier Cugat and probably a dozen others ( all I can say is I hope they were paid a lot ) . SSA decides that the best way to get them out is top form a rock band ( think Monkees and Beatles singing songs by Lieber and Stoller ) and have them invited into the country . They then kidnap Two white guys an Indian and a black guy and force them to be spies and a rock group thus allowing for some surreal bits as other stars show up to train the band ( Richard Pryor , Dick Clark , James Brown among others ) . My jaw dropped and stayed down for a good portion of the films running time . I'm not sure how to rate this film . Its occasionally funny , has some good songs and proves that not everyone needs drugs to have their brain smashed like an egg . This is a clear warning about who and who should not be mating . Clearly its a movie that wants to appeal to the youth market while at the same time doing everything it can to attack and make fun of the same market . Its as if your stuffed shirt of an uncle made your choices in current popular culture , clearly you wouldn't want to see his choices . At the same time the film is clearly about youth and what was then current culture so it wouldn't appeal to the old folks . Its a movie that will appeal to no one . Actually not no one , bad movie lovers , fans of surrealism , those who must see every movie made by their favorite star , masochists , mental patients and those who want a unique ( but not necessarily good ) viewing experience will want to check the film out . I've given it a because there is some good and some bad mixed in with the " I don't believe this " material so its the fairest rating I could come up with . Your reaction will be your own and with a movie like this I don't even want to guess what that is going to be . Take this review as either and invitation or a warning , its your choice .
Dull story in a technically well animated tale	This is a story set in Feudal Japan . Kintoki flees her uncle into the mountains and is rescued by Lord Raiko and his men who raise her to be a warrior . However her past comes calling . . . This is told with computer animation that mixed flat with 3D . The coloring is very deliberate and makes you swear that something is wrong with your TV set , its not , it , like the design of the film is made to look of the art of the period the story takes place in . It looks good if really odd . If you like Japanese art then you are going to really enjoy the film purely on a visual level . The plotting is such that , well , let me put it this way , The DVD I was watching was damaged and wouldn't play past the middle of the movie and I didn't care . I could have returned it for something else instead I just went on to another movie . It wasn't bad , its just that what was happening on screen was not living up to the visuals . Honestly is worth a rental but its not worth a purchase unless you are interested in the art of the time period , or the different styles used in different types of animation . Interesting Technically , but not emotionally
Visual Masterpiece - Messy Story	This film looks fantastic . Its one of the most spectacular films I've ever seen . It seems as though Tsui Hark and crew suddenly were given away to truly unleash their imaginations for the first time with computer graphics and the went for it . This film is simply wonderful to look at . The problem is that the film feels like its starting in the middle and assumes you'll pick it up as you go along . Thats fine but its at least 25 minutes before we start to get anything like character development and by that time I was hopeless unconnected to anything except the visuals . The plot has something to do with the battle of good and evil in the sacred mountains of Zu in China . The story starts hundreds of years ago and then jumps forward once then twice in what becomes a story of lovers reunited over time while battling a great evil called , I kid you not , Insomnia . This is a remake / sequel / rethinking of the earlier Hong Kong film Zu Warriors of the Magic Mountain also by Tsui Hark . The earlier film looks less impressive compared to this one but it pushed the limits of what you could do with martial arts films and fantasy and set the stage for many classics that followed . The " original " film has a slightly tighter narrative thread , that film at least had a place to step on before things got jumbled . This is a great film to look at and I'm certain that should it ever get a US release this will play better on the big screen than it does on TV , simply because you'll get a sense of scale to the spectacle . Visuals are . The story telling is a two . Split the difference over all .
animated re-imagining of the bible and history as an alien intervention story	The premise of this film is that GD , his son Red and a space ship load of other people end up on earth after they can no longer go home . GD had stocked the ship with genetic information in order to save his dying world and he now uses it to manipulate the creatures on earth for his own benefit . All the while he's challenged by his son , who thinks that his dad should leave well enough alone . Spinning out the biblical tales as a scifi battle between father and son this is at times very clever take on mankind's origins . Dealing with allusions of everything from the Garden of Eden , Moses , Christ , Darwin's theory of evolution , the fall of Satan , modern history , this movie has a wealth of clever ideas . The problem is that some ideas are glossed over while others go on way too long . There is no balance and the film races in fits in starts to its ending . This is a film you love because of its ideas more than its execution , which at times is a bit ragged , Personally I like the film as an idea , however as it been put forth on the screen I think its a scatter shot affair with much of the humor falling flat . This is the type of thing you could try if you run across it but its not something you need search out .
Atmospheric little film that won't win any awards but is perfect as part of a horror fest on a dark and stormy night	Vampiresque tale of a madman loose in a small village in the middle of the 19th century . Someone is tearing the throats out of villagers after dark . Who could it be and how does it relate to the events years earlier when a shipwrecked pregnant woman was bitten on the neck by a vampire bat ? Well made melodrama with horrific overtones take many horror conventions and breathes just a bit of new life in them , Give this movie a good many points for daring to be different in its supernatural tinged tale . Add to it a great cast headed by Frank Morgan and Misha Auer ( as a hunchback ) and you get a fine little lost film . Sure it won't win any awards but as a movie to watch on a dark and stormy night with the lights on low its gangbusters Worth seeing , especially if you program a night of moldy oldie horror films .
Good , but awkward comedy mystery thriller	A milquetoast of a man is caught climbing out of a cemetery late one night . Its transpires that he had left 1000 dollars on a grave , in response to a letter sent to him warning of death if did not do so . When he and the copes return to the grave the money is gone . The cops haul the man in to the precinct for trespass and other charges . It transpires that the note is one of many that has been sent to a group of people in the hopes of extorting cash . Murder and mayhem follow . Low budget PRC special is an odd mix of comedy and mystery . Its a mix that doesn't fully work since the comedy tends to over power the mystery at the most in opportune times . Part of the problem is that the very good Byron Foulger , a supporting stalwart has been pushed to the fore as our milquetoast lead . There is nothing wrong with Foulger in the lead , its just that decades of playing similar roles , usually for comic effect undercuts some of the tension . ( I'm guessing this may play better on a second viewing when the flaws might be forgiven or at lest accepted ) . I know the film was also hurt for me by the cheapness of the sets which included numerous rear screen projections which result in a couple of screens where people just seem to be standing in front of a wall instead of being somewhere . Worth a look in an undemanding mood .
Bad movie lovers rejoice , you've found another lost treasure	A young boy runs his dad over with a bulldozer , which then manages to run over his arm . The kid then goes off to the mental hospital for many years . When he gets out he find his mother has remarried and he kills his step dad . When mom objects he kills her too before heading off on the road to continue his murder spree while being haunted by his mother's face . ( that , my friends is the first fifteen minutes or so . It gets weirder from there ) This movie is laughably bad . Its one of those movies you keep bursting out in uncontrolled laughter during because you can't believe what you are seeing . The film looks like a standard drive-in film from the time it was made with some good effects thrown in . The problem is the script and the acting are so loopy that its impossible to be frightened by anything going on . How did our " hero " ever get out with out killing everyone with in 500 miles ? Why aren't the cops all over his behind from the get go ? How did people feel when they paid good money to see this ? Get your friends . Get some drinks . Get some popcorn . Get a copy of this movie and have a party riffing on its jaw dropping badness . Its a lost treasure of bad movie-dom .
spectacular footage mixes with a story you won't care about	Film about Charles Bedaux who came to the US from France and changed the way factories produced their products . In the process he became one of the wealthiest men in the world only to see it all begin to slip away as he fought to maintain ties with the axis powers during the Second World War and as the workers of the world fought against his methods . The film intercuts footage from an expedition he took across the Canadian Rockies with his life story , the result is a mish mash of a tale who's purpose I'm still trying to sort out . Blame it on the director . there is the nuggets of a good story in this mess but I can't find it . I know little more about Bedaux after the film then when I went in . His was the only side and so long as his family friends and business were safe he didn't care what he he did . Unfortunately the American government did , especially during war time . Its on odd film about an odd man and its interesting up to a point , but somewhere about half way in I realized I had no idea why I was watching this or why I should care . I made it to the end , but can't really say it was worth the slog - even if the footage from the Rockies trip is often spectacular . I'd take a pass
Just okay remake of a good thriller removes all of the thrills for gags and an obvious solution .	Remake of the Linoel Atwill thriller the Sphinx has been rethought so its now a jokey romance between an Assistant District Attorney and a reporter . Its not bad , but where the original was a creepy thriller , this is too light to be truly gripping , especially if you've seen the original . The plot has ADA Dick Purcell investigating the murder of a wealthy individual . The one suspect , a known deaf mute played by John Hamilton was seen to talk by a janitor ( Montan Moreland ) at the crime scene , while he was seen by dozens of witnesses , including the reporter , at a dedication ceremony . The solution here is so clumsy as to be obvious well before its revealed making the film unexciting . The result is we're left with the not a great deal to hold our interest , and the feeling that once again a very good original should not have been remade .
Mostly of interest for its director	A group of young men break into an old deserted castle and find some uniforms and become soldiers . On the soundtrack the narrator speaks of the history of the building and eventually talks of the necessity of war . Clever look at how boys playing war may end up taking it too far . Its a bit one note and is probably a couple of minutes too long , however there are some intriguing moments such as the change that happens as the uniforms are put on or how the military mind is ultimately operating in an us or them mode . Its not the sort of thing that one need watch more than once , but its an okay time passer . Mostly its real interest lies with anyone who's a fan of director Werner Herzog . All others may not feel the need to see it .
Better than it should be , its still full of plastic rich people trying to be humble	Prepackaged and completely fake big screen version of the hit TV series is a good film if you like the series or can stomach the plastic fakeness of it all . I mean that both as a slap and as praise since the film is much better than I thought it would be but at the same time I can't believe how incredibly fake it all was ( kids actually buy into this ? ) . To be fair I have to say that I didn't make it to the end , I ended up moving on to 17 Again after about half this films running time simply because my brain was full and my ability to deal with a bunch of insincere rich people trying to get in touch with what matters struck me as a hollow effort even if its well done . If you're a fan of the show give it a shot , otherwise you're on your own depending upon your tolerance for entertainment brought to you by the Stepford Wives .
Okay mystery	Nick Tryane is hired by a family to locate the missing patriarch , a rich banker . The banker suddenly turns up but seemingly in a fog with a " paralyzed brain " . With the missing man returned the question becomes who did this and whether he's responsible for the murder that happens in the garden . Enjoyment of this film will depend on whether you like the star James Dunn or not . Dunn who plays Trayne our hero made a lot of B-movies in the in the 30's and 40's . As a second banana or in a supporting role Dunn was always very good . The problem for me was that in a lead role he never amounted to very much . I'm not sure if it was because he wasn't a good lead or because he was working for the Poverty Row studios and so didn't have good enough material . Here he always seems to be waiting for someone to step in and carry on with what ever he's doing . It makes the film less then what it could have been . The script is interesting and it has some nice twists to it . It has witty exchanges and only really falters when in the second half it becomes a series of interviews between Dunn and the suspects . Over all its not bad , but its not all that great either . Worth a look if you have a second film on tap for the evening , or if you come across this at 2am on some TV station that still runs old movie all night long .
Cinematic Dream Time or One of the Strangest Films Ever Made	Its taken several goes to get all the way through this film , but after two or three years I've finally done it . Granted the pace is slow , but this thing is so odd it hard to watch . The device that gets things moving is that Nemo , , his parents having gone off to the opera , asks his butler to tell him a story with all a great many unrelated characters . Before the story is told , Nemo , dressed like Winsor McKay's creation , wanders into to the story . The plot has Nemo , take an elevator to a beach somewhere . There the Nautilus ( Captain Nemo ) has been beached , a teen boy runs about with a white gorilla ( his toy ) . Alice ( from Wonderland ) washes ashore and Zorro shows up . Aliens land . Nemo grows into Jason Connery so he can woo Alice . . . And I'm forgetting a ton of stuff . The sets and effects are cheap and the performances uneven , but where else do you get to see Harvey Keitel as Zorro ? I have no idea how to describe , never mind rate this film . Its slow and dull at times , but its so off the wall and dream like in its plotting that you continue to watch . Some of it is profound , some of it is stupid . If you like cinema obscurities search this bad boy out since its never played in the US to the best of knowledge , and other than the bootleg market it probably never will . , although you'll really be on your own .
Fantasy romance is a good introduction to Indonesian film	This is the story of the snake queen who is worshiped by many people . If you make sacrifices to her she may aid you in you endeavors . However she is very fickle and will often require that you sacrifice a loved one to her . One man has given over his wife and son in the name of wealth . The Queen has demanded that he also give up his daughter . This is too much and he asks for another way . She says that he may give up one member of the household who has enjoyed his wealth for one year . To that end the man seeks to marry off his daughter so that he can sacrifice the son in law . Things become complicated when the snake queen , in disguise falls in love with the young man creating a very odd love triangle . This is a well loved film in some circles . In my living room its liked but not loved . I think on some level I need to see it again , for what ever reason this film just doesn't do it for me . I don't know why . Its certainly beautiful and well done ( though the dubbing on my print can be awful-especially the narration ) . The visual effects are quite remarkable for a film from Indonesia in 1980 . The half snake half woman shots are amazing even today . But I don't know . There is something about the story that doesn't fully connect to me . Its a wonderful fantastical romance but it just misses for me . Certainly this is a movie for some one wanting to get their feet wet with the films of Indonesia , especially if one doesn't want to deal with the blood and guts that flow through many of the horror and action films more available titles . Worth a try if you want a darkly tinged ( there is some blood and gore ) romantic fantasy . Forgive me this film eludes me and it really bothers me that I feel I'm missing something . . . .
Read the book , it'll take you just as long and is better all around	Shopgirl Steve Martin adapts his short novel about a shop girl who's wooed by an older rich man and an aimless young man . What worked on the page doesn't work on screen as we watch what amounts to the dull lives of three dull people . Martin is fine as the older man as is Jason Schwartzman as the younger suitor . The problem is Claire Danes in the central role . She comes across as rather bland and uninteresting , something she manages to cause the movie to become . I really didn't care for her or her character , or rather did only when the narration gave me something to grab on to . Actually the best thing in this film is the narration which appears to have been lifted from the novel intact . Given the brevity of the novel you might be better off reading that instead of seeing this movie which is one of the biggest nothings of the year .
One of the weirdest movies I've come across - but not in a good way	( This comment may not make sense - but then again neither does the movie ) Su-hyeon Kim the star of Old Boy directs a very strange , very disjointed movie about people living in a tenement . Centering around a father and his sons , who have names the S @ # $head , Dognose and So-So . This movie rambles from one bit to the next on a trajectory thats not quite aimed at the broadside of a barn . I wish I could tell you more about what this movie is but I have no real clue . Its just strange , really really strange . One son brings home an old girl friend for his father to have , another son has just gotten out of prison and likes to stab people , a third rides a motorcycle and makes deliveries . There are gangsters , and children , a guy who makes love charms . . . . . . and its brilliantly filmed and acted to such a degree that I was transfixed by the technical aspects and the greatness of the pieces as the film as a whole slid slowly into the surreal . As a series of unconnected moments , or as a calling card of a film maker who's got a future , its something to see . The problem is that each brief piece never really connects to the next and after two hours you're worn down by the disjointed nature and lack of a narrative whole . It just doesn't work , which is sad because so much of this is really good , just not when you place the pieces together . Despite my middle of the road rating ( for the pieces and certainly not the whole ) I can't recommend it except for those who are truly adventurous film fans , or for those who want to see something weird for weirds sake . Then again maybe I should just say stay away , since this really isn't something you'd want to see .
much ado about the obvious	Morgan Spurlock decides to see what would happen if he ate nothing but fast food for a month . The results are predictable , he gains weight . I was truly amazed when the film came out and people fell all over themselves about how wonderful it was . To be certain the film is amusing and enjoyable , but its not really revealing . One would have to be living under a rock not to see that eating nothing but fast food is going to cause a weight gain and other problems . Granted the film isn't just him eating fast food the film does look into the problem of obesity in America , but the revelations aren't anything new , even if they are presented amusingly . Admittedly part of my problem is Spurlock himself who I find to be an amusing guy but at the same time I feel that the film was never meant to inform anyone about anything other than to make Spurlock a household name . Ultimately its an okay film , but its really little more than someone pointing out the obvious .
Good and bad , and sort of neither	The story of what happens when Fat Albert and his gang cross into the real world is a mixed bag . Some of it works , some of it doesn't and some of it just sort of lays there and does nothing . Part of the problem is that Bill Cosby was allowed to write the script . Bill is a very funny man , is wonderful here playing himself , but he can and often does climb up on a high horse and moralize about life and behavior . This moralizing , lesson teaching , and need to be a " family film " hobbles the movie since everything has to have a point or to need to have a message . Its not bad , but it takes away from what could have been a funnier comedy . Is it worth seeing ? Yes , especially if love the old series . But wait to rent it or see on TV since it plays very much like a TV movie anyway .
Mildly amusing sequel is better than what went before and perfect if you want something that won't tax you in anyway	This is the sequel to Private Snuffy Smith and is better than what went before . The story picks up with Snuffy still in the army and in a shooting contest with Sgt Gatling . Gatling wins because Snuffy isn't allowed to use his squirrel gun . Gatling is then ordered to take Snuffy and some other men to the backwoods in order to protect the prototype of a new rocket that will help in the war effort . Once there Snuffy meets his cousin Barney Google who has a stake in the invention . Things get complicated when spies arrive to destroy the invention and steal the plans . Based on the once popular comic strip the movie is step up from the previous film . Instead of several loosely connected parts ( a real problem in the first movie ) the film has one story from beginning to end , so it has time to actually build up situations and characters that can produce laughs . By no means a great film , this film is amusing and by the end does manage to produce a few laughs , and while they are not belly laughs they are laughs none the less ( something Private Snuffy Smith never managed ) . The humor and the plot are pretty much by the book and you'll know where its going well before the characters do but if you're in a really forgiving mood it won't matter much . I'm on the fence about recommending this film . Its okay - just okay . Certainly there are better ways of spending your time and money , but if you stumble across it and want something that won't clog the recesses of your brain with anything what so ever I'd give it a try , especially if you like hillbilly humor .
The actors are better than the material	Daniel Craig commands the screen in a cliché story about an actor on the way down who gets word that a childhood friend has died , which of course spins him off into remembering what used to be . Its a cliché tale thats been done before in one way or another . The film is a very well made and extremely well acted especially by Daniel Craig who proves yet again he's probably the best of any actor who's played James Bond . The problem here is the script which takes way too long to get going . Its almost a full half hour before we begin the hour long center section of the film that explains , in part why things are they way they are . As well done as it is it isn't anything we haven't seen before , and once we returned to the present I kind of had a feeling how bits of the last half hour would play out . Its not a bad film , but it is yet again another one thats good enough to make you wish that it was better .
See it for the performances against type rather then the unremarkable plot .	Four interlocking stories about Passion , Love , sorrow and happiness . Its a tangled criminal web . I know why the cast took the parts since in many cases it allows them to be atypical in their roles . Its nice to see the actors in this film stretch but I really wish that the films central story was better ( perhaps the casting was to make the film seem more than it is ) . Yes its all one story told in fragmented parts , but I'm not sure that the choice to break it up was done because thats the way it works best or because by telling it in pieces people would take it more seriously since they would have to work to get answers . Personally as a film its a mixed bag that doesn't really work since it all seems rather pretentious .
Beautiful but dull	Based on a Thai legend this is the story of a man who returns to his wife and child unaware that they are long dead . Its considered a great story of ever lasting love , I call it dull . Call me cultural heathen but this movie bored me . Certainly this is one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen , the portrait of life on the river and in the jungle is breath taking . If I could simply watch the visuals I would be very happy , unfortunately the story of love undiminished by death gets in the way , or rather the way its told . The way its told is very soapy . Its overwrought and gaspy with wonderful declarations of love that are repeated so frequently you'll want to scream . Its a bad romance novel come to life . I hate to be negative since I wanted to like this but I was too busy snoozing to care . Revised : The films visuals still haunt me several weeks after writing that review . A second viewing , sparked after a discussion with a friend who loves the film , made me more appreciative of the film , and while I am still no fan of the film , I can recommend it for adventurous viewers . I still find it slow but find that its worth a shot for those who want to try something decidedly non American in flavor .
Only 45 minutes of new material	The first TV movie of Ju-on is one of the creepiest movies I've I've seen . This is considerably less so . This film begins with a half an hour of material from the first film . While its good , it slows the forward momentum of this film especially if you watched the previous film in close order . When the new material comes it picks up literally where the first leaves off and follows it to a new end . Some of this is good , but much , like the end , is good looking but rather confused and far from scary . Worse , the now linear story is too literal and doesn't leave enough to the mind . If you need to know what happens after the first film ends , then by all means pick this up for viewing , however if it were up to me I'd just leave the first film be and forget this as a well intentioned mistake .
Fans Only Need Watch Or If You Don't Know Dick Now , You Still Won't	Rambling chatter about Philip K Dick , best known for the novels that became Minority Report , Blade Runner and Screamers . The chatter is loosely grouped together by subject but it drifts back and forth through many subjects . Its interesting to listen to but a bit tough to watch . The trouble is that this is nothing more than interviews with people who knew Dick talking , inter-cut with some audio interview footage spiced up with cartoon of Dick at the typewriter . There is almost nothing other than the interviews themselves , no photos , some fleeting shots of printed material and of the outside of Dick's house . There is no narration , no attempt to explain any of the works he wrote or of his life , its simply remembrances that will mean nothing to anyone who has never read any of his books or , more importantly , never heard any of the stories of the man . My Dad who watched this with me was totally bewildered because he didn't know about Dick's life . If you want an introduction to Philip K Dick and his work go somewhere else , this will put you off him forever . If you already know the man you may want to rent this , and then do something else while listening to it since its a dull thing to watch , but an interesting thing to listen to since the stories told are quite funny assuming you have some context to understand the craziness of them .
Depraved Experiment Goes Horribly Wrong	A teen scientist spikes the medicine his mother is testing on young woman and the result is gruesome death , for the drug turns pain into the highest pleasure and it doesn't take a clever mind what happens next . This is a slow movie that takes a while to get going . The drug takes a while to react , and the once it does the women infected by it self-mutilate horribly . Even though the effects are not the best at times this is a profoundly disturbing film with several images that will haunt you long after the film . Despite the gore , there appears to be a point about medicine and research and pain and pleasure , but the slowness and the grossness over whelm the film . In a twisted way I'm glad I saw it , but I don't need to see it again . - - - - but if you can't stand blood stay miles away from this film .
Its all there except the script	Giancarlo Esposito directs and co stars in the story of a town with racial strife in its past thanks to the killing of a civil rights leader decades before . As the ghosts of the past are woken up and a new corporate threat comes to town the people in the town are forced to make some choices . Well made and well acted tale wants to hit one out of the box in examinations of race and community , but is mired with a script that never completely shakes off its well worn cloak . We've been here before and while much of the film works , it still relies on cliché ( there is something about Julia Stiles character that just doesn't ring true ) . I think perhaps the film is trying to do too much , there are a good number of characters and all are given a certain amount of time . I liked it , but I didn't love it . Of course the DVD cover made it look like a thriller or mystery , which while it has elements isn't what it really is .
Good but not great crime drama	Woman who's husband runs a successful trucking company , which seemingly is untouched by a recent rash of hijackings plaguing his competitors , ends up on the run when the police show up on her door looking for two hijackers . Fleeing with her husband and his men she must work to get herself out of murder rap caused by the death of an cop in a shoot out . Good but not great B crime drama hits all of the typical notes as the woman rapidly finds that she is in way over her head and now must fight to keep herself out of jail . This is the sort of thing I used to stumble upon on late night TV and got hooked on , staying to the end , usually with out ever finding out what you saw . It the sort of thing that keeps you interested as to whats going to happen next ( probably the highest recommendation I can give ) . The cast is very good , including a young Reed Hadley as a romantic possibility for our heroine . If there is anything that works against the films success its that the script , its a bit too melodramatic at times ( The expectant wife of the shot officer ) and when the film is done you really don't want to see it again ( nor do you really remember the previous hour ) . Still its worth a shot if you're in the mood for a non taxing thriller .
Okay remake . Given the choice , see the original for real fright .	This remake of the Wes Craven classic is nowhere near as good . Certainly it has some great moments and visual images and the idea of a " modern " family having to fight off a family of savages is a frightening one , but some where along the way it lost its teeth . Certainly the fact that the studio asked that some of the more subversive touches of the original ( baby for dinner anyone ? ) be trimmed doesn't help . It also doesn't help that this film has inspired countless remakes an homages over the last 30 years . Worse , I don't know how many retreads I saw in the last year . Why remake a film if you're going to de-claw it and then take the same path as every other film maker . Its pointless . Worse its about 20 minutes longer than the original film and as a result this film tends to stagger about for a good while before it seems to get its focus . Its not bad , but the remake is better and more out there . Given the choice , see the original .
Amusing dialog and great performances lift up a mess of a movie that's mostly stitched together from pieces seemingly stolen from other movies	The Reef ( aka Shark-bait ) is a ( n occasionally watchable ) mess of a movie . The plot of the film has Pi , a fish from Boston Harbor fleeing south to " The Reef " to find his aunt after his parents are scooped up in a fishing net . Once on the reef he falls for the most beautiful girl in the area and runs a foul of a shark . The film doesn't so much plagiarize Finding Nemo ( which is sort of reversed here ) and the other animated films from the last few years as rip them apart and stitches them together into a movie so unoriginal you'll swear you've seen it before . It's a jaw dropping in its unoriginality . There's a drinking game in this movie where you take a drink every time you spot a riff from some other movie . I'd love to see someone take the film and annotate it so that there is a list of steals . The character designs run the gamut from really good to what were they thinking . The look of the girl fish for example is quite lovely , the design for Pi's " psychic " aunt is amusing , while the look of the three eyed friend of Pi's parents back in Boston is clichéd but very funny . On the other hand characters like the shark and the old timers are blocky and awful . The backgrounds are an odd mix . Some are fantastically detailed settings like Pi's aunt's home or the pirate ship which look great ; on the other hand there is the nothingness of the open ocean ( and I do mean nothingness ) , with the characters seeming to hang all alone in a world that's just the blank sea . ( while I understand that's probably what it would look like in the ocean , its really dull to look at on the big screen ) . The some of the animation is lacking any sort of finished quality appearing as what looks like a half step up from test footage . Its as if they had an incomplete staff of animators so they could only really finish bits of the animation . Oddly the dialog seems much better than the Frankenstein like plot . To be certain many of the jokes have been lifted from elsewhere and you will find yourself saying the punchlines before the characters do , but there's a good chance that you'll still be amused thanks to the work of people like Fran Drescher , John Rhys-Davies and R Lee Ermey who take their stock characters and turn them into something more than a wooden prop . Its oddly amusing at times in a weird sort of way , but I can't recommend you actually pay to see this movie . To be certain this is the sort of movie you'll watch a couple of times on cable but that doesn't mean its worth your hard earned money . Its one of those bad movies that you find yourself enjoying on TV simply because its not as bad as your other choices and because its not really costing you anything . Trust me this is a cable movie . . . .
Overlong comedy about three men and a baby	Latest Jackie Chan film is a wildly overly long ( well over 2 hours ) comedy action film about a trio of safe crackers who use the loot to fuel their addictions . When things take a turn for the worst the trio kidnaps a baby , the same one that they had saved earlier in the film . When one of the trio is hurt and thrown in jail after the getaway , the remaining two , Jackie Chan and Louis Koo must care for the kid . Of course they bond with the kid and of course circumstance provides for some death defying action sequences . I really didn't care for this film . Sure its nice to see Jackie playing a semi-not so nice guy , but on the whole this is the sort of thing we've seen a dozen or so times before , and I'm not talking action . For me much of the film was past formulaic and into the cliché rut . How many films have their been about grown men with no baby experience taking care of infants ? How many of them have gags stolen by this film ? As for the action sequences they take a bit of a back seat to the comedy and the baby . Sure there are some nice bits , Jackie walking down the air conditioners and the car chase / crash are good little sequences but they too ring of things that have gone before . It could be argued that Jackie is getting up there , he's 52 , but its not that what he's doing is bad its just that its a bit lifeless and repetitive when compared to his earlier films . It also doesn't help that the film is paced so , leisurely that we feel every one of its 130 plus minutes . This is a movie in need of some real trimming . A miss . Wait for cable . 4 . , for IMDb purposes
Wild anything goes film-making	Parody / homage / pastiche / ( take your pick ) film thats a send up of romance movies and Italian westerns . so over the top you'll wonder if there ever was a top , this is one wild ride , even by Thai movie standards . With blood and gore and painted backgrounds mixing with real locations and a very deliberate sense of reality this film is either going to strike you as a master piece or a piece of cow flop . I'm somewhere in the middle-leaning towards the dislike camp . The problem for me its so artificial I that I was watching the wheels and gears whir instead of watching the story unfold . I also am not really in love with the idea that this is almost two hours long . Overwhelmed with the artifice I turned it off a good clip in . The reaction is not really unexpected since I have a real love hate relations hip with the Thai film industry where I find I either lover or hate the films , there is no rhyme or reason other than I dislike most Thai horror films I stumble upon on my own . Is Black Tiger worth seeing ( or should that be trying ? ) ? Hell yea . There is nothing like it for shaking the dust from the notion of all movies are the same . There is nothing like this I've ever seen in the west and very few in the east .
Okay movie may make you nod off	Jess Franco madness about Dracula , Frankenstein and a wolfman . Dracula is staked in his Coffin and left for dead . Frankenstein with the monster in tow shows up and brings both the monster and the vampire back to life . Somewhere in there a werewolf is brought in to help stop the two monsters . This is a good looking film ( though the Frankenstein monster is a golden throw back to a high school production with scars and such clear drawn on with grease paint ) . Decidedly retro with beautiful women thrown in , this is one of Franco's mid-range movies . Its not as bad as some of the stuff he's turned out and its nowhere near as good as other stuff ( Give the man credit he's directed at least 189 movies ) . The retro style of handling the classic monsters unfortunately kind of wears thin , especially since the monster looks so silly . There are also the typical long passages where no one says anything and people wander about . Its a movie that just sort of is . Its also a movie that more likely to help you nod off .
engaging enough to keep you watching even though the story makes no sense is pretty dumb	Nic Cage is a magician who can see two minutes into the future . After he stops a robbery at a casino the Feds zero in on his odd ability . They want to know his trick and if it can be pushed beyond two minutes because a nuclear bomb is somewhere in LA . Not very good chase film has its gee whiz moments as Cage steps through trouble , but the plot doesn't make a whole lot of sense and if you stop to think about it you'll have way too many questions . The film moves along with just enough speed to keep you watching in a " This isn't very good but I'm curious how it comes out " sort of way . I'm sure thats a ringing endorsement somewhere , but for my money and ten bucks a head at the local theater I'd wait to stumble on this on cable . I have to beat on the cast before I end this post . Cage isn't all that good , he wears the same expression for the entire film . He's not bad , but he's probably not the one who should have starred in this mess . Julianne Moore is completely wrong in a role thats seems to have been lifted from sequences in other movies . Jessica Beil looks good but has nothing to do . The rest of the cast , that actually have speaking parts , are fine and actually seem to be real characters , something that the three leads fail to do
If you can get past the annoying Zasu Pitts this is an okay mystery with a neat solution	Rich slimeball Folsom refuses to marry his mistress because he is married . He refuses to divorce his wife because that would mean he had to marry his mistress . Not long after a complicated confrontation in his apartment with the wife , the bodyguard and the mistress ( who I think kills herself ) Folsom is killed . It then becomes a question of who did it and why . Creaky murder mystery is okay once it gets going . Its a typical talky early sound mystery that seems a bit too ripe for its own good . Really working against the film is Zasu Pitts as a phone operator in the building where the action takes place . She is a shrill Greek chorus of sorts commenting on the events . If you can get past the shrillness the mystery is good with its solution worth taking the hour to watch this . To be honest I wasn't loving it , more liking it , until I got to the end at which point I was like , " Oh that was cool " . Its something you'll watch once , but worth the look if you get past the Pitts .
Like watching a river flow	This documentary on the temporary art work Andy Goldsworthy is like watching one of the rivers he builds near , sometimes it enthralls you and other times it bores you depending on your mood . I've tried this film two or three times now and I can not get into it . While I find the film extremely beautiful and well made , its wandering nature dulls my senses to the point of sleep and I find that just about the time we go home with him I turn off the DVD and swear I'll pick it up again later , though I never do . The problem for me is that for a good portion of the first part of the film , the part I've watched repeatedly , we don't really get to see anything other than Andy creating . This is all well and good , but it doesn't explain why anyone would commission this guy to go onto the shores of Nova Scotia and build things no one will ever see since time and tide will destroy them . I know the answers come later and I know that much of what comes later is quite beautiful , having jumped ahead , but the pacing seems completely off and twenty minutes in I'm ready for a nap . I'm probably no judge of this , but I think its worth a try , even if I'm not sure that I really have gotten anything out of this film . Ah well , maybe next time .
It will become invisible in your mind after you see it	High school kid goes missing . What no one knows is that he's hovering between worlds a victim of mistaken identity . Can he get someone to hear him before he dies ? Okay thriller is a bit too " teeny " for my taste . This has some good moments but it somehow never really comes together . The cast is really good , but unfortunately they haven't been given a real plot to do anything with . This would have been better as part of an hour long horror anthology show like Twilight Zone or Outer Limits . Worth a shot on cable or DVD this is probably a movie thats going to end up like its title in the the minds of most people .
Just okay version of often filmed story seems to be missing something	One of , if not the first version of the novel L'ATLANTIDE , concerns the story of two French Legionnaires who stumble upon the remains of Atlantis under the Sahara desert . There they meet various people including the Queen , played here by Bridgette Helm ( Maria in Metropolis ) . There have been at least six versions of the story brought to the screen and this is the second version I've seen . ( The first on I saw was Siren of Atlantis and its pretty awful ) . Clearly filmed on location on the desert this movie is interesting to watch for a while , however once the pair ends up underground the film seems to get lost . I don't know if its because the print I saw is some 10 minutes shorter than the official running time on IMDb , or if there is something missing from the novel , either way the movie just sort of stops and runs in circles while I tried desperately to figure out what I was seeing . While it never gets really bad , it does get discouraging since its clear that there is a story here that would draw film makers back again and again , unfortunately what ever that quality is is missing . Running some 78 minutes this version feels twice as long . I can't really recommend this movie since it just sort of misses the target . However if you're interested in old fantasy movies or ones that have been filmed repeatedly I'd give it a shot , if nothing else Bridgette Helm is easy on the eyes . .
Some laughs but its trying to be too many things lessens the effect	Three life long friends are rocked when a fourth member of the crew is killed in an accident . Moved by the dead friends fearless lifestyle the trio sets off to find the treasure of DB Cooper . Some laughs ensue . What is this film trying to be ? A comedy ? An early mid-life crisis film ? a buddy movie ? What ? Spoof of Deliverance ? Actually its all of them and a few more . Sadly while I can report it's much better than some of the reviews , I have to go on record saying that its over reaching nature diminishes the entire effect . This movie could have worked better but there is to much in the mix . Granted the clichés thin the mix a good deal but thats balanced by things like Burt Reynolds funny turn as a mountain man . I don't know . I wanted to like this more . But its too much of some stuff so its too little in others . Worth a go on DVD or cable , but not for 9 bucks in the theater . .
Not my cup of tea	A collection of vapid 20 somethings and 30 somethings find that their whole world and self definition in relationships with other people . Well done but so not in the place I'm in film about romance ( a vile thing if there ever was one ) that I had to give up on it a half way in or so . I just can't relate to the notion of looking for Miss or Mister Right being the be all and end all of life , or rather that the relationship is the be all and end all . Oh can you tell I'm long out of practice and the product of alien DNA . If you're into romantic comedies about relationships or feel that your self definition is based on whom you are with give it ago
Good movie thriller ruined by a need to throw in a cliché twist every ten minutes	I'm not sure how to write about this movie without talking about spoilers , so I'm just going to plow ahead and mention that THIS REVIEW IS FULL OF SPOILERS , so if you don't want to to know , don't read any further . This movie is the story of a group of friends who decide to go exploring caves . One of their number has suffered a terrible tragedy in the form of a car crash that killed her husband and daughter . ( The accident is simply one of the most jarring moments in movie history and is as big a punch in the face as anything that happens in the rest of the movie ) . Once the group gets to the cave everything begins to go wrong . Worse still is that it isn't long before they find out that there is something terrible in the cave with them . I have to say at the outset this is a well made and well acted film . Any problems I have with the film , and I have many , are do to the story line . This is one of those movies that should have been better . HEAVY SPOILERS FROM HERE ON OUT I dislike the plot twists in this movie a great deal , its not that they are in and of themselves bad , rather they are of the sort that are so incredibly clichéd or designed to keep the plot moving . First they don't go to the cave they were suppose to because their leader considers it a tourist trap , worse they never told anyone where they went ; They never take the guide book on the caves of the area ; they seem to lose what ever it is they need moments before they need it . Most amazing of all is the one that shows up about an hour into the movie . Even though its alluded to earlier , the creators of this little thriller have added a race of blind goblins to the mix , in away that seems completely out of left field . Here's a taut movie about a bunch of friends trapped underground upon which they've added some creatures from the road company of The Lord of The Rings . At that point I just threw up my hands and gave up . Its not bad , its just not in line with everything else . I don't know what to say . This is one of those movies where things would move along on a logical path , except the writer keeps throwing twists at the characters for no good reason other than it movies the plot in the direction he wants it to go . I wouldn't care , but its always when the twist would do the most damage . I also wouldn't care if it wasn't every ten or fifteen minutes , once I could buy , maybe twice , but three or four or five times ? It ruins the genuine suspense and feeling that movie naturally creates . Try this on video or cable . Just don't be rushing out to see it since you may end up disappointed , like I was , at having to watch a good little thriller hobbled by dumb plot twists .
Bland and dull	I think the plot goes something like this , though I can't be sure since its really not that involving : Archaeologists go to Thailand to look for some artifacts . When they get to the village where they are going to do their work they run into the beautiful daughter of the head of the town who takes a fancy to one of them . A jealous townie , and son of a local priest asks his dad to help him get rid of his rivals . And then . . . then I woke up a few hours later . This is a bland snoozer . Its not a bad movie as such , but its just unremarkable in every way . The effects are okay , the performances are okay , the direction is competent and the script is also okay , unless you've seen similar stories before in which case its simply a by the numbers exercise . The problem is that the film plays like a knock off of hundreds of other horror films , some which are better and some of which are worse . If you're a fan of Asian horror films and have seen similar plotted films then there is nothing to see here . If you've not overdosed on films of this sort you might want to give it a try .
Graphic violence remains shocking in a less than shocking film about CIA misdeeds	This film is a recreation of the trouble the CIA has caused over the years around the world . Its done in a mondo style with recreations for most of the first hour before settling on the insanity on Central and South America . I'm not what to think of this film . Certainly its graphic in its violence and tough to take as a catalog of violence . But this film aspires to be more than just being an exploitation film . It wants to be an anti American tract on the evils of the CIA . The problem is that the CIA's dirty laundry has been aired so many times in the last 30 years that the film's revelations are far from shocking . With the shock of the " laundry " gone we're left with just the plot of the freedom fighters in Central America , and the film falls rather flat . Its not bad , its just unremarkable and we're it not for the violence and torture there really wouldn't be any reason to see this . In an exploitive mood this film isn't bad , but I wish I could have seen this 30 years ago when its revelations and graphic violence would have rocked my world . Now its just sort of there . If you're looking for an exploitation film with a little meat give it a try . Otherwise this is a film that can probably give this a pass .
If you can get through the slow stretches this is a good little western	John Wayne rides into a saloon and finds the player piano running and everyone in the place dead . The safe has been broken into as well . As Wayne investigates the scene the sheriff and posse arrive and promptly arrest Wayne vowing to get his gang as well . Breaking out of the jail with the help of the saloon owner because she knows he didn't do it Wayne is off to find out who did . Though held by many as a classic , I'm not too sure of its status . Its certainly got some good moments and at least one classic moment in it , but its not really a classic sort of film . The opening of the film where John Wayne walks into the saloon and finds everyone dead is one of the creepiest sequences I've ever seen in any sort of film . There is something unsettling about the whole affair that really gets under your skin . Its the type of thing that makes you sit up and pay attention , I just wish the rest of the film was on on par with that one scene . Unfortunately this 53 minute film also has a great deal of filler . There are frequent stretches were people just ride between locations . This doesn't include the chases which seem to spring up every five minutes or so . Its deadly and it kills the pace of the film which would be a taut 30 or 35 minute with out them . Worth a look for that one scene if nothing else .
Long , slow western set in a man's mind is one of the most beautiful films in years even if it ' s almost dramatically inert	This is an odd duck of a movie . I became interested since I'm a fan of Eddie Izzard who plays a mad Prussian lusting for gold . I knew it would be intriguing since its based on a Moebius comic strip , but I wasn't really expecting what I got . The movie tells the story of Mike Blueberry , a US Marshall in the old west . As he lays " dying " we drift back through his life , stopping at about the point the crazed Prussian is getting everyone hot with gold fever and an old enemy returns to haunt him . Add to the mix shaman , bounty hunters , spirits , double crosses and peyote ( for the crew as well as the cast ) and you have a unique western . Its a weird film with portents and visions criss crossing with hypnotic cinematography . This is a movie that looks great . There is a first rate cast , although I do have to say that I found some of the accents , Izzard's and star Vincent Cassel's a bit out of place . Pretty much everything works except the screenplay which seems intent on being oblique for the hell of it . There is a heavy dose of Indian mysticism that seems to have been put there just to make things seem like they have a deep meaning ( I think there was too much peyote behind the scenes ) . I'm not sure they do . The obliqueness and constant mystic reference slow the movie down to a crawl . After a while I stopped caring and started to look for the DVD remote . ( Even worse is the fact that you have to pay attention to this movie or you're going to end up lost , so once I found the remote I had to back it up to see what I missed . ) This is not a bad film , its just a rather dull and confused one . I'm sure in the right frame of mind this plays wonderfully , but I haven't determined what that is . I've rated it because of the parts . The parts are interesting even if the whole is often a crashing bore . For fans of the cast , rabid western fans and those looking for head trip films only .
Jokey tone makes this a film thats going to play better if you haven't seen the story before	Sixth or seven go round for the " classic " tale from the pen of the creator of Charlie Chan about a writer who goes to a deserted inn to write a story in 24 hours ( on a bet ) only to have interruption after interruption as people show up , guns are fired , secret doors open and bodies fall . It was a creaky tale ( George M Cohan was doing a stage version in 1913 ) when this film was made which may explain the slightly jokey tone , personified by the leads knowing nod and a wink way of acting . I like the story and I've seen a couple of other versions of the tale , and I find that when its done right you forget that you know what's going on and lose yourself in the telling . Unfortunately here the ability to lose myself was diminished by direction that didn't seem to want to really play up the mystery elements , despite great sets and a lead that signaled he knew what was going on . There was no way I was going to forget I knew how this was all coming out . Its not a bad film , but unless you've never seen any version of the story before you're more than likely to be extremely unimpressed . Worth a look , more so for those who don't know the tale ( if you know it wait until you're in a high tolerance mood )
It left me feeling sad	) Documentary on a role playing universe called Darkon . Think Dungeon and Dragons but in the real world . The people go away for a weekend and and live an alternate feudal life where anything they can imagine is possible . The film examines the game and the people who play . I found the film to be very good at portraying the people and the game , but at the same time I found it very sad and troubling since its clear that many of the players have invested a great deal of themselves into this world and the game , more than is probably healthy . Too many people relate how they are nothing in the real world but in Darkon they are great warriors , princes , princesses or what ever they have chosen to be . They exist for the few moments where they can pretend to be something other than what they are . My heart breaks for these people since in many cases they are living for the weekend . For me its way too familiar a feeling . I have known too many people in my life who have given themselves over to a game and lost all touch with reality . ( of course they may understand too well the pain of life ) . Granted this is no different than any other mania we come across from sports to cars to Barbies to fish , but at the same time rarely is the separation between worlds as clear as with Darkon players , there is this world and that , not one unified place . Its on IFC so you may want to try it if you're so inclined , but be warned you may be struck with a severe case of melancholia , I was
Almost a good movie , yet not really a bad one .	Matt LeBlanc leads a commando squad into Nazi Germany to steal a copy of the enigma machine . Co-starring Eddie " I'm an action transvestite " Izzard this was a long time coming to the US . I have no idea if it ever got a theatrical release , but I'm sure it it did it lost money . this isn't to say the movie is bad , its not really , its just too run of the mill , guys in dresses aside . What can I say this is a situation ripe with comedy that doesn't really hit enough comedic moments . To be sure the action is fine and the film making is good , the problem is its so by the numbers that I could wander in and out while it was on and not feel I was missing something . Its like Matt LeBlanc's character who almost completes every mission he's on , its almost a good movie , thats almost funny . Put downs aside its worth a look if you like World War 2 movies , especially ones that are more than a bit off beat ( even while remaining completely run of the mill ) . That should confuse you completely .
Updating and complicating of the Herchell Gordon Lewis film kind of works thanks to its style	Updating and complicating of the Herschel Gordon Lewis gore classic about Montag the Magnificent a magician who performs gory stage tricks on young women . The women later turn up dead in the same manner of the tricks on stage . It was in Lewis's hand an excuse for bad acting and some gory effects . Here the film has been expanded as a reporter chases after Montag and he soon finds himself in the middle of weird complications that eave him as a potential suspect for the murders and questioning his sanity . I'm not sure that all of additions work with the drugs , hallucinations , the weird Chong and other tidbits making a mix that is more confusing then horrifying . Frankly too many bits don't make sense or lead to nowhere . Its not a bad film . Its not a great film . Its an okay film who's hip style both helps and hurts the proceedings ( the story is told in flashback by the hipster reporter ) . I liked the film somewhat but can't recommend it to anyone who's not a horror fan . ( Hey any film that actually make good use of the weird Crispin Glover gets an extra point or two ) .
Not one of the best films	An explanation of why I don't think this is a great a film as some have said : Unremarkable film for people who don't have much imagination . Its well made and well acted but the script is not very good , either they explain too much or not enough and almost everything is geared to driving the plot . I felt like I was being force fed the story , which didn't seem to spin out organically . Characters exist purely to serve the plot with the sole exception of Michael Caine who is the only one with a real character . There is a sense of place , but also the sense that somewhere just off the screen there is something else , the film crew ( in Bladerunner we got a sense of a bigger world - the space stations of the replicants exists - here I'd be hard pressed to wonder if anything other than England does ) . Indeed much of the film's world makes no sense , scene after scene I felt was staged in the backgrounds and not real . You have scenes where everything is chaos and others where there is some form of order , but it sees to be two separate films . Also in a world of declining population there seems to be way way too many cops . The best " new world " film exist and don't have to explain things to you . In the best you learn stuff " accidentally " on the way . In say Reign of Fire the world's rules are given to you in ways that are natural , as part of conversations , glimpses at headlines . In the worst they either explain too much or so little that nothing makes sense . Here we get endless droning from the TV and on on the signs . But ts almost too much information that only rehashes what we already know . There are these statements from the terrorists when Julianne Moore kidnaps Clive Owen that are meaningless dramatically since Owen would know it already , but which are fed in to inform us . We shouldn't be told in essentially declarative statements about things . Look at Bladerunner , we're dropped in this world and we don't get an explanation of anything , the world is . Owens story is potentially a prequel to Dekers so its odd that the world here is not as complete . And the plot goes on and on and on with out any real character development . There are few if any real characters , mostly its just odd people wandering in and out with no real sense of who these people are . It would be okay if there was something for them to do , but there isn't , they just move the plot along . What is it between Julianne Moore and Owen ? Who are these other people ? I don't know . there are huge streams of back story that are hinted at but never touched , which can be gotten away with if you have characters and not cut outs . It would also help if you had a writer who wasn't interested in just moving the plot , who could with a line say volumes , thats not the case . The words are constructed to move things along not build character and situations . I know part of the problem is changes from the book ( which I haven't read ) Julianne Moore's character is actually two characters combined , and there are other changes that probably didn't help . Again its not bad , its just not one of the best films of the year , technically maybe , and certainly Michael Caine should be up for an Oscar , but the story as told on screen doesn't amount to much .
Big bloated and somewhat funny	Talk about over done . . . . Every comedian in the world , or so it seems , criss-crosses through this story of greed and unpleasant people . The plot is simple - when a man dies in an auto accident he tells of a buried fortune which those that stopped to help him go off and try to find . Its broad comedy of the slapstick kind that you will either find funny or painfully overdone . I find it over done and over long . There is no need to have this unspool as long as it does , especially when whole sections of it fall flat . Still if the mood strikes you you may be one of the legion of fans who think this is the funniest movie ever made . I don't and try to avoid it when I can .
Unremarkable	Story of what happens in the aftermath of a hit and run as the family of the boy killed looks for closure and the man who hit him tries to see if he can live with himself . Well acted and good looking , I was disappointed in that its very much by the numbers . To be certain there are a couple of twists in the story but mostly it speeds along to its appointed conclusion at a good pace . Its not bad but not really remarkable . Even the good performances can really make something out of this nothing . I'd wait for cable since odds are its going to end up being forgotten not long after you turn it off . ( )
weird patchwork film is interesting to lovers of the strange	What do you get if you take a black and white Filipino caveman film and add new color scenes explaining that the caveman stuff is actually on a far off planet ? You get this movie a wild and weird scifi film about vampires from space . Another patchwork job by Al Adamson for Sam Sherman , this film kind of works in its own twisted sort of a way . To be certain the new earth bound material of vampires here on earth doesn't really work , but the cavemen stuff which explains the source of the infection ( okay I'm going out on a limb here ) is interesting in a " so bad its good " meets " so weird its compelling " sort of way . I've actually gone back to see this film willingly several times over the years because its just so damn odd . I have no idea if thats a recommendation , hell I don't know if I even really like the film , but it is sort of a one of a kind movie . Worth a look for the truly adventurous .
Absolutely beautiful vampire movie is a mess of confused tones and pretensions	This a weird retelling of the Dracula story reconfigured as to be some sort of anti-fascist film . Its a beautiful film to look at but more than a bit strange in execution . The plot , if I picked it up correctly , has to do with a town that has been held in the grip of a band of vampires who all dress in what reminds one of fascist uniforms . Their leader bears more than a passing resemblance to Hitler , but with out the mustache . Deciding that they have had enough of the terror they form a plan to drive all of the vampires into the ocean . In order to get better information on the vampires they send in one of their own to the vampires castle . What transpires after that is both interesting and very pretentious , unfortunately the pretentiousness wins out . You have speeches and discussions that are less than veiled discussions of politics and completely ruin any normal sense of horror . You have a group of young girls who appear in many scenes of the vampires performing odd ballet or synchronized moves and in so doing distract you from the main action of the scene . It wouldn't be so bad except that much of the film can't make up its mind as to what its about , is it a horror film or a political film ? I don't think it fully knows . The result of the confusion is a film that often comes off as being very funny , the problem is I can't be sure how much of it is suppose to be funny . The best part of this film is the look of it . This is one of those movies that amazes you with every shot . No matter what is going on , silly or serious , it all looks great . It sucks you in simply because you want to see the images that pass before your eyes . This film has tracking shots and haunting images that will stay with me forever ( Two high points that come to mind are the first time we go to the vampires castle and travel among all of them ; and the final sequence on the beach which has some haunting imagery . ) Can I recommend this film ? Truthfully , not to anyone who isn't a vampire completest or a film nut who loves to see beautifully shot films since the cinematography is what makes this work despite its pretentious flaws ,
Over produced	This comic adaption has some great things in it . Max von Sydow for example , some of the photography in some sequences , but it has too much wrong with it to be anything other than okay . Stallone of over the top , Rob Schneider is too silly , a misreading of the characters and a bloatedness that only too much money can buy . The problems with the movie are best summed up by the main street set which is huge . It looks great , it looks wonderful . It is shown repeatedly from only one angle . You never really move off this one street , and you never change perspective , it always the same shots from the same angles probably because they couldn't shoot it any other way . Its not as bad as you've heard , but its not good . My suggestion is a big tub of popcorn , some friends in a bitchy mood and this movie for a fine roast fest of Hollywood excess .
By the numbers feel good movie is a bit too by the numbers	Well made , well intentioned movie about a man who gets custody of his son as his life implodes and he takes an unpaid internship in the hope that it leads to something greater . So sweet it hurts . So manipulative you get whip lash . So obvious you wonder why you're watching . Its a good movie but I felt manipulated . This is the uplifting tale of a man who pulled himself up by his bootstraps to become a success , and it hits all the numbers in a way that seems more like a self empowerment seminar rather than a real movie . Whether this has to do with the fact that the real life counterpart of Will Smith's character does just that I don't know , but it doesn't make for completely gripping viewing since odds are you know how its going to come out . I don't hate the movie , its not bad , but jeeze give me a chance to connect on my own with out flipping the cliché switches ( how many clichés can a real life story have ? . )
Big on atmosphere , low on plot , your interest may wane before the plot really kicks in	Good looking but rather dull and nonsensical story of a man taking his daughter to a village near a deserted castle in the hopes of curing her nightmares . She is of course the spitting image of the Countess who disappeared years before , and of course there is a one eyed hunchback killing anyone who goes the castle proper . I really liked the look of this film , its beautifully shot in black and white and fills the proceedings with a real sense of dread . The problem is that the plot kind of wanders around for a good bit with details only popping up sporadically for the first half while we're treated to very atmospheric sequences that don't really mean anything . Its interesting for a while as you try to grasp what is going on , but finally you'll loose interest before things really start to come together . Odds are you'll either fall asleep or turn the channel before the end , if not you'll probably start puttering about .
If it wasn't for the 3D this wouldn't have been released to theaters	The movie is about three flies that hitch a ride to the moon with Apollo 11 . Its a thirty to forty five minute idea thats stretched to ninety . We get side trips about gramps birthday , Russian flies trying to ruin the mission and one or two other brief asides . Its amusing in fits in starts but it mostly just sort of lays there . Frankly if the film wasn't in 3D I doubt it would have gotten any sort of theatrical release ( I had to go into another county on the other side of Long Island to see it ) . Its not bad but its not much better than okay . On a technical level it does have some really nice 3D effects with a nice sensation of motion as we bob and weave through the grass around the NASA space center .
Beautifully made mess of a film thats only for those willing to put up with its intentional strangeness	I'm not sure what this film is really about . I'm not sure I want to know . I think its got something to do with being an examination of the relation ship between Jackie Kennedy , John Kennedy and Marilyn Monroe , but set somewhere else . I think it begins with John and Jackie going to Mexico and then it sort of lost me as we get , what seemed like a series of connected , but not entirely clear , yet somehow intriguing scenes of the various characters interacting . I know thats as clear as mud , but I have no idea how to describe this film , other than its weird . The film looks good , often has some wonderful dialog , and is frequently very sexy but the film is trying too hard to be weird and off beat ( a guy dances down a Mexican street in a bizarre fashion ; there is a transsexual hooker with a unique way of answering the phone ; a clown cop keeps appearing ; and I won't get in to this films preoccupation with urination ) . Frankly this film really annoys the hell out of me since its clear that the people who made this film have enough talent to burn , unfortunately they have fashioned a film that will mean very little to anyone other than those involved in it . There are some great looking and great sounding pieces in this movie unfortunately its so off beat that most people won't be willing to sit through it to the end . Why couldn't they have made something that hung together better ? ( rating of 5 is do to my annoyance ) . For adventurous film goers only .
Bad 80's Animation Disney Style	Still several years from the second golden age of Disney animation of Little Mermaid , Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin this is a movie from the transition period , from the first time before Disney animation was barely alive . Listing nine people to retell the story of Oliver Twist this is a movie in need of a clue . It's gritty and ugly and much like the New York its set in before Rudy turned it around . Accurately portraying the city in which it's set is not really a plus here since the gritty style is in contrast to the Disney sweetness that keeps popping up . The songs are merely okay late 80's pop crap from a variety of writers that makes for no unity in the score . This is a film with too many cooks on every level and it shows . Its a perfect example of movie by blender . Its not wholly awful , actually its not bad , but it can be very abrasive to the point you don't want to keep watch it . ( I give it ) Whats worse its all sub-Disney in animation to the point it looks like half a dozen bargain animation houses of the period . Let this film be a warning to all of the perils of cartoons by committee and what happens when its done just for the money .
Great visuals almost hide a a lack of story and connection to reality	Wildly historically inaccurate story of the battle of Thermopylae , I'll let other people pick on it for its tenuous connection to reality . How is it as a movie ? Its tough to say accurately . Bear with me this is hard to explain . The film is for the most part hysterically funny with its over the top , over cooked dialog . Its a real scream , with every sentence a pronouncement , or seeming pronouncement of some grand sort or another . The performances are pretty much on par with the over done dialog , some of which is lifted from Frank Miller's graphic novel ( which ultimately is just as laughable as this movie ) . The way things unfold are so . . . well actually at a certain point things stop unfolding and it just becomes a battle , an hour long battle with a rhino and some elephants and a monster out of a B-horror movie and a hunchback . None of it is connected to reality , but it looks good . Yes this movie is pure eye candy . Almost every shot is visually stunning . There are shots which will be on posters for decades to come . Its certain to get technical Oscar noms-and probably wins - for photography and art direction . The visuals are the reason to see this film . Then again after about fifteen minutes of this eye candy overload you realize that there isn't much , if anything beyond it . Lets face it they've gutted the story and reduced it down to Spartans vs the Persians ( with no real context as to the events ) and made most characters likable cardboard cutouts , leaving you nothing to do but watch the pretty pictures . Its enjoyable , but pretty empty , like a a ride on the best looking amusement park ride you've ever seen - only its a minute long ride after a three hour wait , or finding out your date for the evening has the IQ of a gnat and is incapable of any sort of intelligent speech . Over and over , especially towards the end I had to keep asking , is that all there is ? It is watchable . Its just not very satisfying ( especially if you know the real story , which is oh so much more harrowing and heartbreaking ) . I saw it , great , can I see something else now ?
I'm not sure what I think	One of this years 8 Films to Die For concerns a woman who sees herself driving by on a city street and goes to investigate . What transpires after that point is what makes up the movie . Despite being reminiscent of I don't know how many other films I kept having a sense that I've seen this film before r at least part of it since the first third really struck a bell . After that its anyone's guess because the film's plot is somewhat unhinged and not very clear . I replayed a couple of sections more than once and I'm certain that the filmmakers were going for effect rather than narrative clarity . Built more for slow building fear and suspense the film is rather free of gore and blood , there is some in appropriate moments , but considering how gory and shocky films are these days its nice to have one that takes a different approach . I wish I could say that the film worked , but I can't . As a collection of sequences and moods the film is quite good . As something that hangs together I'm less impressed . Its questioning of reality and repeating of events is done a couple of times too many . Its clever for a while but eventually it drains much of the life out of it . This could have been a great film instead of an okay one . For what its worth I'm considering giving it another go to see if I like it better , but in all honesty I don't expect to .
We're all basically bad aren't we ?	Great looking , but ultimately rambling story of two thugs and a prostitute who get out of prison an continue their wanton ways , while taking revenge on , and repeatedly crossing paths with , the people who put them there . Playing like a Japanese Breathless or Rebel Without a Cause , this is wonderful looking movie . The film was clearly shot on real locations so it has a sense of place that few films I've seen can match . Luscious black and white photography is arresting to see . I'm guessing the cities and country sides never looked this good . The cast is very good and keep you watching even when the plot seems to be going nowhere for a good chunk of the first half . Thats the rub , the plot . This hip and happening tale of young Japan rambles around for a good chunk of it going nowhere . Its not that its bad , its just it took a long time to get where it was going , or at least feel like it was heading somewhere . The point of the film is to contrast the three antiheroes with the pair who sent them away , and who are seen , in the end to be just as awful as those they despise . Once that happens the first time we're only left with a repetition of the point the two or three more times it happens . Sprinkled with profanity , rape , robbery and abortion this would have gotten banned in many communities had it showed up in the US at the time of release in Japan . Even today its more than likely liable to get a rise out of most audience . Its a walk on a dark side that rattles you with its matter of factness . Is it worth seeing ? On most levels yes . Its a wonderful antidote for what was being done elsewhere in the world at the same time ( its also more real than many similar Hollywood films ) . The music is great and the hip , often nihilistic attitude almost saves it all . On the other hand odds are that this is probably not going to be a film you watch a second time , there's nothing wrong with it , its just not as meaty as it thinks it is or we hoped it would be . Ultimately its a movie I admire more than I like .
Magnificent central performance is the reason to see this disturbing film about a man looking for family	( Possible spoilers ahead ) It begins with William Keane frantically searching the Port Authority Bus terminal for his lost daughter and then becomes as in your face look at a man on the edge as your likely to see . Keane isn't a well man . There is something wrong with him . It quickly becomes apparent that there may not ever have been a daughter . Keane eventually bonds with a mother and a young girl living in the same flop house as himself . . . I used the term in your face , the movie is that literally . Most of the scenes are single take single shots of Keane up close and personal . As the film unfolds you'll desperately want to look away or have the camera look away , it rarely does . Even the rare cut away shots are menacing . Keane is on edge and so we are on edge . This is 90 minutes trapped with someone on the edge of not right . Complicating matters is the fact that just as Keane is unsure of himself , so we are unsure of him , we never really know what his motives and desires are ( beyond some form of human contact ) . Most of the movie is the camera staring at his face while is ticks and mumblings and odd behaviors pass before us often with little clue as to what it all means . Its frightening , especially since his much behavior can be seen as harmless or in a different light terrifying . We know he can explode and we know he can be calm , but we can never be sure which we're looking at until something happens or doesn't . Damian Lewis as Keane gives a stand out performance . If it has to be to hold your attention for the entire 90 minutes . I don't think its a performance as an inhabitation , William Keane lived with in Lewis during the film . Its amazing . Which isn't to short change the rest of the cast who are just as good . Is the film worth seeing ? I don't know . Its an extremely unsettling film , which would be fine , but I'm still not sure it adds up to very much . As good as a performances are the story , or the time with the characters doesn't seem to add up to very much for me . Keane is clearly off base , one of the first things we see him do is to ask a ticket seller if he remembers his daughter from a year earlier , the search in Port Authority is not a search for recently missing girl but one a year gone ( listen for it and it will alter how you see the character from the get go ) . While I can see how the story is about some quest for family and human contact , I'm not sure it fully succeeds on all the levels and points its trying to cover . What is the film about really ? I don't know and in some ways I don't care . I think in some ways I think director Lodge Kerrigan is being transgressive and off center simply to be so . While it may make for disturbing experience it doesn't make it a fulfilling one . ( Included on the DVD is an alternate cut by Steven Soderbergh . It reorders the footage and shades the story very differently . Less disturbing and more clear cut this version of the film plays almost like a different movie . While better in someways it does posses flaws of its own which make for an interesting companion piece to the official film . )
Okay but I don't need to see it again	Some boys are caught robbing a sporting goods store for basketball equipment . They were stealing because none of the gyms near them would let them play . Sponsored on probation by a newspaper editor they form a team and slowly begin to change their lives , however the bad guys won't let them go and they being to lean on some of the kids for their own means . Good but not great juvenile delinquent story made at a time when there was a great deal of hope . Based on the Big Town radio show this is in its way an odd duck film with the story of the kids folded into the story of the paper . It's a good film but not something I need see again .
Its just sort of there	Legend says a Lorelei lives in a cave near a river . Every full moon she takes the shape of a monster and comes out to kill , removing the hearts from her victims . Fearing her girls might be next a schoolmaster hires a hunter to keep her girls safe . Rubber suited monster movie from the director of the Blind Dead films . Enjoyment of this film will depend on your tolerance for monster that is clearly a rubber suit under a hooded cloak , and your mood . I normally would eat this sort of nonsense up , but for whatever reason I came into the film all wrong . Don't get me wrong its a well made film as these Euro-horrors go , but its so run of the mill and connect the dot plot-wise that you're going to be disappointed . Some people have claimed that this is a lost classic , but I don't think so . Certainly its better than a good number of similar horror films since it has a decent cast , good special effects ( though silly monster ) and some well filmed sequences , but at the same time the by the numbers nature of the plot collapses the whole thing in on itself since its all too clear from the start where its going . I've seen better and worse , and this is one I wish was better . Forgive me for not saying more but the film just doesn't elicit a better response , it's just sort of there . ( I really should point out that I will be visiting this film again when the right mood strikes me )
Mexican Wrestler takes on spiders from space in a much too talky wrestling sci-fi film	I'm not a huge Mexican wrestler movie fan I've seen several Santo movies that were badly dubbed into English as well as titles that sported other wrestlers as leads . Most were over the top time killers that scored on the inventiveness scale if nothing else . Here the hero is the Blue Demon and he takes on evil spiders from space . High on the cheese scale of " I don't believe what I'm seeing " this is movie that has a good beginning , good ending , and a middle with too much talk and wrestling . The plot has the spiders trying to take over the world while stopping the Blue Demon the only person who has caught on to their plan . The spiders both transform into humans , the wrestler with the spider hand is way cool , and hypnotize people into doing their bidding . The spiders also have a neat death ray that turn people to bones ( The film It Came From Hollywood used the clip of the alien coming up out of the flying saucer and turning a dog into a skeleton as Dan Akroyd says " You throw a dog a bone not turn him into one ) . The film does have moments but not enough to suffer through the whole thing for . Ideally this is a movie to watch for 20 minutes then walk away from until the final 15 since that way you see the good stuff with out the bad . for some great psychotronic images . Fans of cheap sci-fi / horror films will enjoy , all others are on their own .
You'll remember the photography more then the plot	Beautiful silent film set in a wilderness logging camp . I really wish that I had seen this on a big screen in a good print instead of on video with a lousy video source . The title comes from a man who gets a transfusion of wolf blood and begins to think he's a wolf . Its not a wolf man story despite what the material on the DVD box says . The rest ( most ) of the plot has to do with a new owner for the logging company and what happens when a young woman ends up in the woods and in the middle of a romantic triangle . Its not a bad film , but its nothing spectacular . What I'm going to remember is the outdoor photography which is absolutely stunning . I'm in awe of how silent films have such great cinema verite shots of life that were often dropped into films . I know that the disappearance of the real life shot disappeared with the coming of sound because of the sound equipment was too bulky , but at the same time documentary filming like that was never the same . Worth a look for the photography . The plot is just okay .
Dead middle section ruins an otherwise enjoyable mindless guilty pleasure film	The movie starts off with a bang , as Bo and Luke are delivering moonshine , and end up getting chased for Luke's amorous side trip . Its light , its breezy and you hate yourself for laughing . There's also a road rally coming up which Bo hopes to win , even though the home town favorite , now turned pro racer , has returned to reclaim some glory . Things turn darker as the Duke farm is seized for moonshining and the boys are forced to take trip to Atlanta to see what Boss Hogg is up to . Thats the basic plot to the movie , which is the basic plot of almost every episode of the TV series . The difference this time is that things are just a tad darker since Burt Reynolds is far from a complete fool . His presence alone gives the movie a weight the TV series never had . However even with Burt , this movie is a still as light and mindless as the series ( which is better than the movie ) . Sue me , I liked this movie . I don't know if I needed to see it on the big screen , but its definitely worth a bag of popcorn and a soda . Its so wonderfully mindless and vegetative that it makes the worries of the world go away for its 100 minute running time . My one problem with the film , and its a big one , is that the central section of the movie concerning the trip to Atlanta is dull compared to the rest of the movie . This is a movie that begins with chases and action and ends with chases and action , unfortunately the middle section is mostly jokes and plot development with no action . Its like dropping a brick wall in front of the General Lee when its going 90 miles an hour , it stop the proceeding pretty completely . Still this movie is worth seeing especially if you're even remotely inclined toward really low brow southern flavored humor . It won't erase the series from the mind but it will make you laugh . ( One question why so much hard rock in a " country " film ? )
A very mixed affair thats more curiosity than anything else	Big budget movie concerning Jimmy Durante throwing a party so that Baron Munchhausen will let him use his killer lions in an up coming entry in his Schnarzan series . Various stars show up and sing and dance . Scatter-shot - and I do mean scatter-shot musical comedy showcasing many of MGM's lesser stars . Its a good segment followed by a poor , a great throw away line followed by a poor one . Huge production numbers are done to mediocre songs . Its an odd ball affair that I picked up on a used VHS tape because its the only film I know that has both Laurel and Hardy and the Three Stooges ( who were still working with Ted Healy ) . Stan and Ollie , who's pictures are on the sleeve of the tape don't show up until about 55 minutes into the film . They are very good , but no match for Lupe Valez who runs over them and everyone else she comes in contact with . She is the best human in the film . ( She was a great actress with the right part ) . The Stooges show up about 35 minutes in and play autograph hounds trying to get signatures . they are good but their bit is simply too short to really work . Of real interest ( and the best thing besides Velez ) is the appearance of Mickey Mouse . This is a cantankerous Mickey who gets into a fight with Durante before singing a song which leads into an animated segment called Hot Chocolate Soldiers . This is a light song about a chocolate soldier army going to war against gingerbread people . The images are rather dark and nasty and had I been a kid the whole thing might have given me nightmares . ( or not since the darkness comes from knowing what war is , which as a child I wouldn't have understood as well . ) Its an strange piece that like much of the film doesn't fit with anything else . ( It also seems more like a Fleischer or Van Buren cartoon as opposed to a Disney one . Worth a look on TV , but not as something to search out , odds are anyone loving old movies or cartoons will find something to like ( even as they find much to dislike ) . for the good and the bad .
A unfinished treasure that should have remained unfinished	The idea of Disney and Dali working together seems as weird as one of Dali's paintings . A play off Broadway several seasons ago imagined Dali's effect on the Disney Studio and Alice in Wonderland which was in production at the same time and was quite funny . The reality of situation was something else and ended after lots of sketches and paintings had been done ( many later stolen ) but for all the work only several seconds of film had actually been animated . For 50 years there was always a feeling of " what if it all had worked out " to the project . Now 50 Years later Roy Disney picks up where Uncle Walt left off and completed the project . The result was better in the realm of " what if " . There is nothing really wrong with the film , except its not really interesting . I saw it as part of a children's film festival and most of the kids seemed puzzled . Most of the adults just took the odd images in stride . It was well animated but nothing special to look at , its really more a collection of paintings that move than an actual film . Yes there is a romance of sorts with a surrealist twist , but its nothing compelling . The film was nominated for best animated short , but having actually watched the entire film I think it was more a favor to Roy Disney than to any Oscar quality of the film . If you get the chance see it , but its not worth going out of your way to see . Nor do I think it will be worth the price of Disney's proposed DVD release featuring a documentary on the making of and the film itself . If they charge anything over ten bucks they truly will have be as mad as Dali himself .
Okay exploitation film who's time has come and gone is still amusing in the right frame of mind	1930's exploitation film about the evils of a prostitution ring . The plot concerns how the failed attempt at kidnapping a girl off the street for a prostitution ring ends up leading to the rings down fall . Made on the cheap with a little bit of talent this would be a complete over done pot boiler were it not for some okay performances , some touches that only an exploitation film of this film dared do ( women in their frillies and some smart ass dialog ) not to mention the passage of time that has twisted some moments into unintentional howlers . Don't get me wrong this movie is trash but its a sincere trash that is mildly entertaining . Not one to look for but if you catch it you might want to watch it for the giggle factor of a once " sincere " warning ,
Strange Swedish children's film may be cherished by some and bend the minds of others	I have no idea what to say about this film except that it struck me as really strange . Dunderklumpen , a lonely hobo breaks into a families home and brings several toys to life then carries them off so he won't be alone . The young boy of the house pursues the animated Klumpen into the wilds of Sweden . His father sees the boy running off and pursues his son . Surreal ( and potentially mind-bending ) adventures follow . Nothing like laying in bed not feeling well and watching a twisted children's film . A live action film with animated characters this is one of the most bizarre films I've seen in a while . I'm not sure if its the English dub or because I'm not a kid but this film comes off as really weird , and I'm not sure its in a good way ( this is definitely not Disney material ) . There is something about the odd mix of animation and reality that doesn't mesh for me , with some of the exploits of the characters ( breaking into the house , setting the fire ) seeming to be more dangerous than humorous . It reminds me of the bad " good for you " children's films that I avoided like the plague when I was growing up . Forgive me there is just something off about this film that I can't put my finger on . Maybe its because I'm not from Sweden or its of a time or a bad dub , but this film gave me the willies more than the sillies . It does have some really good animation which makes me wish it was in a better film . If you want a surreal children's film or some really good animation give it a try . Beyond that you're on your own .
Awkward Herzog short film	Werner Herzog short film about how there is no bad kids only bad parents . The premise of the film is that a young boy is kept segregated by the rest of his classmates who refuse to have anything to do with them . One day he ends up making friends with a girl in his class and we see what was behind all of the dislike of the boy . Awkward short film that doesn't quite work completely . Certainly its short nature seems to indicate that Herzog had an idea that he went for and that seems to be the problem it's a little too straight forward . Worth a look if you run across it but not something to search out unless you're a Herzog completeist .
Gove it points for trying something different , but take some away for a well worn plot and over length	Ex-cop , now drug dealer and addict tries to redeem himself by finding a missing kid with the aid of a hooker . Low budget film that strives to be more than a run of the mill story of a man reaching for redemption . Shot in a variety of different color schemes and styles the film makes the effort to be more than it well worn plot would lead you to believe it is . Peter Facinelli in the lead is merely adequate in a role that requires him to be stoned much of the time . I don't think the film really succeeds in what its trying to do , but I will give the filmmakers points for at last trying to spice things up . I think that one of the problems with the film is that its way too long at around two hours since its slender clichéd thread of a plot doesn't really have the strength to support the tale . I can't recommend it unless you're someone like me who is tired of seeing these ultra-low budget direct to video films that all look and sound the same .
yes it is	Just over an hour long documentary on stupidity , how to define it and why we are it . Amusing to a point , but ultimately pointless film prattles on for its running time not saying much . To be certain its nice to know that idiot , imbecile and moron are all readings from the IQ test ( Idiot is an IQ of 0-25 or a mental age of up to 3 ; Imbecile is an IQ of 25 to 50 with a mental age of 3 to 6 and a moron is an IQ of 50 to 75 ) but at the same time how can you really like a film that repeatedly makes the point that the rapid fire editing style of TV and its parade of idiocy is helping to dumb us down when the film uses the same rapid fire editing and parade of stupid human tricks to keep us interested . Though not as clever as it thinks it is , the opening warning that the film was made by a bunch of idiots proves painfully to be true . Watch on cable only .
Epic story is reduced to showing big battles and simply using dialog to link them	Andy Lau stars as a general who started as a foot soldier and worked his way up through the ranks after several acts of heroism . Thirty years on he's forced to fight one last battle against the daughter of an old enemy . Apparently based on the same source material ( The Romance of the Three Kingdoms ) that John Woo is using for his 3 hour Red Cliffs ( due for release later this year ) Here the " epic " story is reduced to around 100 minutes of marching armies and battles . Any sense of plot is cast aside for the fighting and deep pronouncements . To be fair the DVD I watched had barely coherent subtitles , but at the same time they were coherent enough to know that they really didn't have a great deal to translate . The plot lurches from thing to thing with very little explanation - or rather only explanation to carry the emotion . We're told things rather than shown things . The performances of Lau and Sammo Hung provide a great deal of emotion that isn't in the script . The bond between the two men and the emotion that they impart are the reason you watch the film , not for anything else . . . . . . okay maybe the action . As a film of epic action scenes its quite good . its not great but it is is good in a retro old school style . Its pretty pictures of armies fighting and it is entertaining , if rarely engaging ( something the films scant dialog and character building prevents from ever happening ) . Never mind that coming as it does on the heels of the Jet Li masterpiece Warlords the film has a great deal to live up to since that earlier film had real characters and real action , two things this film never manages to achieve . Add to the mix the over use of slow motion and the film really isn't worth the trouble . Actually its worth looking at if you want to see the fighting and a couple of good performances .
A Beautiful Vanity Project	This is one of the best looking anime features I've run across . The animation is glorious , the design and the world created are rich in images and wonders to see . The trouble is that the movie is a snail paced retelling of Pinocchio that even at two hours and sixteen minutes doesn't tell the whole story , there are gaps between sequences that leave you puzzling how we got from A to B . The film is suppose to be a very personal project by the director who worked on it for ten years , but there is such a thing as being too close to a project and in this case he was much too close . I can see how the lack of complete explanation might appeal to some people but for me it was more bewildering than intriguing , the film didn't make a lot of sense and took forever not making it . ( Visuals are a , the rest is up to you , I give it a five over all simply because the visuals are so fantastic it makes watching it interesting at least for a majority of it )
Why was this movie set to theaters , its just a TV episode	Thoughts from after I saw this in the theaters after its original release : In all the talk about why the Powerpuff Girls Movie failed , they have mentioned almost every excuse from too many animated films to the fact most theatres were not showing it past dinner time , to over saturation of the market , to the " fact TV spin offs usually don't work while the show is still on TV . What I find curious is that with all the talk no one at any point mentioned the fact is that the movie isn't all that wonderful . Don't get me wrong its not bad , its just not all that great . I went to see this when the movie was on the verge of disappearing from theaters going to the only one in literally 25 miles that was showing the movie . It was packed with kids and their parents , mostly kids under 7 , which isn't a bad thing especially when you have a three or four year old repeating every line of Buttercup's , and the whole thing takes on a surreal Rocky Horror sort of feel . The movie is essentially the story of how the girls and Mojo Jo Jo were created . In the early going things weren't bad . It was like a good TV episode on the big screen . However once the second act hits - where the girls are shunned after a game of tag goes horribly wrong - the whole thing grinds to a halt . Yes , it has it moments but it tends to just go on and on . Then the movie shifts gears again once the third act hits and Mojo is revealed to be the villain and all of the other monkeys attempt to take over the world . Everything is rapid fire and I know I missed several of the references and jokes that litter the screen . ( I didn't catch the words spelled out in the girls color trails until they were fading from the screen . ) Where act two was too slow act three is too fast and I couldn't help the feeling that this was taking the term throw away gag to a new level , so much was happening that it was all lost . Its not bad mind you its just that its an extended TV episode with no real reason to be on the big screen . Hell I bet you there isn't a sharp eyed viewer who won't be able to pick out every place a commercial will appear when Cartoon runs it next spring or summer . Yes I laughed . No , I don't hate it . But in a year where animated cartoons are coming into their own , with Ice Age , Lilo , Metropolis , Escaflowne , Spirit , Jimmy Neutron and Monsters Inc , in less than 12 months ( plus Cowboy Bebop , Spirited Away and Treasure Planet before years end ) I really can't see the point of putting out a movie thats just the TV show only bigger . ( Is it any wonder Hey Arnold also tanked ? ) Frankly I'm glad is bombing at the box office since I can not see any reason that this movie exists other than to cash in on the Powerpuff Girls bandwagon . This was a movie that was released for the sake of greed ( and to have Baboon Butt Bombs ) and no other reason . This was not a story that needed to be told on the big screen since they do nothing with it . Frankly other than a louder ( " mommy my ears hurt " ) soundtrack and " funky " hip movie like freeze frames and shots there is nothing that says to me there was any thought put into how make it a movie , it was simply was and is more of the same . Even the 5 . 75 bargain matinée was too much to ask . I look forward to seeing the DVD . I want to hear the commentary and go back and see what I missed - I want to know the in jokes which I sense are there . But beyond that . . . Who knows .
its okay	Female reporter investigates odd goings on in Montreal . Convoluted plot line about deaths that are really murder , suicide that is made to look like murder and numerous other twists and turns require a great deal of attention to help unknot it . I tried to watch this the night before last must too late at night and began to nod off . I tried again while I made it to the end I don't know how I really felt because where some things need to be followed its clear who the villain is from the start . That is not in and of itself a bad thing , when done right , its just that the film seems to treat it as a big secret when its not . As I said I really don't know what I felt about the film . If you want to see Montreal in the winter I'd give the film a shot , beyond that its your own choice . ( Leave a comment )
Okay horror story left me feeling used and abused	This is more a record of my feeling than a review . Based on a case in Germany Emily Rose tells the story of a priest charged with the death of a young girl during a exorcism . Its well acted and has some genuinely creepy moments . Unfortunately the film made me feel used and abused by the end . There is something about this film that made it an unpleasant experience for me . From the first frame this movie seemed to reach out and grab me with the intention of making me feel afraid . It didn't welcome me in it grabbed me by the scruff of the neck and forced me to see creepy images with a zeal that seemed somehow misplaced or as if it were an excited child that has just discovered some great secret and won't leave you alone until you agree . I felt it was saying " see . See . This is creepy . Feel frightened . You have to be scared because this is creepy stuff " It went on like this for the whole movie with the film insisting on making me feel frightened instead of allowing me to become that way on my own . I felt abused by the film . Its an okay film but way too insistent for my taste .
Better then most girl in a bikini killing zombies movies you're likely to see	Girl in a cowboy hat , knee boots bikini and a feathered boa who is armed with two samurai swords tries to reverse a plague of zombies . Over the top action film is better than the similar films I've seen - the Swimteam VS the Undead one for example , but it some how has limited spark and zest with most of the effects seeming to be CGI . The film kind of works but the cliché plot of an evil corporation being behind it all adds to the been there and done this flavor . Granted it does go beyond the idea of a girl in a bikini with a sword killing zombies , but it doesn't go far enough to make it a truly great ride . Worth a look if you like this sort of thing . . . . others stay away .
Just okay update of the classic TV series	First off I am not a fan of the original TV series . I never liked it when I was a kid and I was never a fan as an adult . If I run across the show I tend to change the channel . The fact I dislike the series so much makes it rather odd that I would watch the big screen update willingly , but stranger things have happened . This update of the show seems mostly right on target , which means that I didn't care for it all that much . No its not one of the worst films of all time , but its not really one of the best . I think the problem with the movie lies in two things . First stripped of the original cast the antics of Ralph and Norton play very differently . They are not really lovable any more so much as abrasive . you could see why the couples were paired , something that isn't really apparent here . The best example of this is that the film opens with Ralph meeting Alice . Its a sweet moment that gave me hope for the film . Then once the film switches to now , and Ralph is essentially the loud mouth we know from the series it collapses in on itself . Why are Ralph and ALice together ? Worse how did the funny guy of the opening become this big jerk ? It doesn't work , and it only shows how much Gleason brought to the role . The other problem is that the film is opened up . For whatever reason , seeing these characters in the real world somehow makes them cartoons . Stripped of their natural habitat they have become unreal aliens in a strange land . Their behavior which would be fine in their world seems harsh and wrong in ours . The problem is not so much that the film makers failed to make them real , its simply , that maybe , just maybe , the characters can't exist in world outside their own . Over all I don't hate the film , but at the same time I don't like it very much . It has moments but little else . This is not something to see in the theaters or to rent . But I'd try it on cable where you can just change the channel and find the original if the new and improved one doesn't tickle your fancy .
Early musical is an okay film thats better in parts than as a whole .	Wheeler and Woolsey musical comedy set in the pre-Civil War South is a mixed bag . The comedy duo are not the " stars " of the picture , rather that is Bebe Daniels . Wheeler and Woolsey are instead the comic relief and they do a good job of creating laughs . The plot concerns the pair attempting to make sure that the wedding of their sister goes off with out a hitch . Its a big scale musical of the kind they don't make any more . The film is based on a Broadway show and while it is suitably spectacular at times it suffers from the problem many films of the time suffered from and that is an uncertainty of camera usage . Because of the sound equipment was noisy and large directors and studios were still struggling with how to shoot scenes or move a camera , here the camera is either moving nicely or painfully nailed down . Its a tough slog . Then again the film's operetta style music is really not my cup of tea . If you like musicals its worth a try , especially if you're interested in the history of movie musicals . ( I do have to say that rarely have I ever felt a movie recreated a bygone era as well as this film does . Hollywood flourishes aside this film really does feel as if you're watching something from long ago in the deep south )
Not bad , slightly atypical mix of culture horror comedy is fine for a night when you want something not taxing	Chinese doctor has his car break down in England . he wanders into a castle where vampires congregate . After having sex with a Chinese vampire he leaves , however his blood is so sweet the Chinese vampire is sent to Hong Kong bring him back . While in Hong Kong he begins to show signs of vampirism and his friends have to try to save him . Weird horror comedy thats an odd mixture of comedy horror and martial arts . Wandering all over the place with way too many ideas in its head this is a diverting little film that has just a few twists and touches ( the vampire laser eyes ) to keep you watching . Far from perfect it isn't a bad choice for those nights you want nothing taxing .
Mannered dress up tale of a crumbling marriage didn't work for me	Sam Mendes is back in crumbling family territory with this adaptation of a Richard Yates novel about the implosion of a family in early 1960's American suburbia . Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet play the Wheelers . We see how they meet at a party and then we flash forward to Kate performing in a not very good local theater production which leads into a heated argument on the way home . From there we watch as the pair try to navigate their life together and in the suburban wasteland around them . I'm not going to lie I found this a tough slog . I never really clicked with the material for a variety of reasons and so found myself squirming in my seat . The main problem for me is that the film seemed more like a dress up affair rather then real people . Everything is spotless in the way that suburbia is always pictured to be , but never really was except when some people were having guests . Everything in the entire film is picture perfect and artificial . It could be argued that this is the way the characters see the world , but when it extended to Leo's office where there was nary a sign of any work on anyones desk I had to throw up my hands . Mendes maybe making a point but at the same time I found it all terribly obvious . The performances are good with the exception of Kathy Bates who is so loud and obnoxious as to unbalance the rest of the film . I know that in some way she is a form of Greek Chorus but at the same time one had wished that she was a little less noisy . ( Though it makes the final image more understandable from both the context of the scene it self and the film as a whole . ) Give it a shot if you like the stars or like dress up tragedy .
Just bad enough to be good	Milligan period piece about murders for an inheritance . Shot in that tight Milligan style where people seem to hug each other so they remain in frame ( due to his camera being beyond poor ) . This is a dreadful movie that has a certain amount of brain dead charm . Its a bad movie in the I can't believe they actually released this sort of way . Again as with most Milligan films , little more than a home movie ( stuff I shot looked like this and I couldn't release it ) this is the sort of thing only masochists and bad movie lovers dare watch . Certainly better than Seeds of Sin , the color and the period nature some how defuses the desire to put this on the unredeemable list . Come on how can one not enjoy-as with most Milligan period films - the desire to see the errors in continuity with objects from different eras mingling as if there was nothing wrong . There's a drinking game ( and alcohol helps these films ) in spot the error .
Wait for a rerun	Four stories of varying quality concerning four dinosaurs and their struggles to survive . Because its a Discovery Channel Production , the place where the landmark series Walking with Dinosaurs played in the US and because Discovery played up the similarities one will have to make a comparison . In my eyes Walking With Dinosaurs is the clear winner , thats not to say that Dinosaur Planet is bad , its not , its just much too long for what it is . Where Walking was a semi documentary ( but mostly a best guess ) on how dinosaurs lived . Here we have hour long stories about the fights for survival of four different animals . We follow them as they try to survive in the various locations they live in with each animal getting name in the narration . Its a dinosaur version of Wild Kingdom . The problem is that each story goes on for an hour . Thats all fine and all but there isn't enough story to hold the attention for an hour for each of the characters , especially since the eat and be eaten theme gets a bit too over played . I liked it at first , and probably would have enjoyed it more in small bits instead of the four hour marathon I saw it in . Worth a shot on cable , especially if you love dinosaurs . Not sure about a rental and certainly see it before you buy it .
Okay film about a boy who awakens a river spirit is at times in need of some editing as sequences go on much too long	A young boy finds a strange rock near a river . After he takes it home and washes it off he finds the water has awakened a small Gappa , or river spirit , named Coo , who moves in with the family . After a couple of adventures they realize that Coo can't stay with the family , and after trip to find a place for him to stay , the media finds out and a circus ensues . Five year labor of love for the director is an uneven and much too long story of friendship , family , media and a few other things ( the film runs almost two and a half hours ) . Often lovingly animated this film the film has a couple of beautiful sequences , ( the dragon , coo and the dog and Coo and his friend swimming ) , but at other times its in love with itself with sequences that go on and on and on , usually anything involving the running or driving or chasing . It all becomes just too much , even when it's working . By the half way point I was ready to call it a night with the result the second part shift between the boy and his friend to the media made me feel as if I was watching the sequel to the first . To be honest its not bad but the film really should have been better . If only I didn't end the film mostly a desire to trim it down . A word of warning for parents , there is a rather violent and bloody sequence at the start ( with severed limbs ) . Its an intense sequence that sets events in motion .
Slow pacing is the draw back to this journey to stop wild animal attacks in the Indian jungle	With her father out of the country receiving medical treatments , the daughter of a rajah returns home to handle a crisis in he country . It seems that some form of wild animals are destroying villages . Hooking up with a great white hunter who was the only survivor of a hunting party sent to end the menace , the princess and a large group of soldiers head into the jungle to put a stop to the attacks . Add to the mix political intrigue , revenge and romance you have the makings for a perilous journey . This is an okay little scifi adventure film that suffers from a leisurely pacing . Shot in India much of the film is the journey into the jungle , which means that their is a great deal of travelogue footage . We see the landscape of India as well as several animal on animal attacks , not to mention a troop of traveling performers . Its interesting viewing because its not the sort of thing we've seen before , but at the same time it slows everything down . On the plus side this film doesn't really look and feel like most other movies . Its a weird mix of Western and Indian films , the result of much of the crew being natives to India . I especially like the non Western music which includes several songs naturally integrated into the film as either entertainment numbers or sung by the soldiers traveling through the jungle . Worth a look for those who want to see a run of the mill story told with a different sort of style .
Great action is the draw in an okay comic book adaptation	Comic book based martial arts film about two brothers who reunite and with the help of a friend battle evil in a city . Spectacular but over the top wire work sequences are the main draw in what is a purely by the book affair . Certainly for fans the action is all that is needed here but its comic book over the topness coupled with a wafer thin story line make it less than enthralling . I'm sure this would have played better had I read the comic , unfortunately I didn't so I felt more than just a little lost . Worth a look for action fans and martial arts mavens all others should decided based upon their mood .
Preachy and heavy handed look at the trials of the Nazi leaders	Soviet produced look at the trials that followed the fall of Germany . Deadly serious , this film is almost too somber to be taken with a straight face since the narration often comes across as rather preachy and purple . Its pure propaganda in the " we were right to try these people " sort of way and is clearly biased against the defendants who had just set Europe aflame . The take is rather odd and unlike any thing that I've run across in American or in Western European films on the same subject . It seems to be trying to over explain why the leaders of Germany were tried , which in retrospect is painfully obvious . Its clear from the lean toward the Soviet take of events and of its lingering on the speeches by the Soviet prosecutors who was behind the film . Its not bad but the heavy handedness of the presentation becomes wearing after a while . If you keep in mind when the film was made its an intriguing look at how the events were viewed during their own historical period . However its probably too long at an hour , with its ponderous preaching taking away from any value the film might have had .
Better than the 1976 remake of King Kong	This gender bent spoof of King Kong was hard to see until the advent of DVD . Thats a shame because its better than the film that producers of the remake of King Kong unleashed on the unsuspecting world . Having not pretense at being anything other than a send up this film lets it all go in what is mostly a good but really dumb comedy . The problem with the film is that even at a running time of around 80 minutes this movie is way too long . There is only enough material to sustain a 20 minute short and its stretched to fill a feature . The lack of material leaves many dead spots and allows for some really bad material to creep in . Had this been shorter it would have been better ( say as a sketch on SNL ) , but as it stands now its a very interesting side note to the debacle that was the 1976 King Kong remake .
Dull	I'm a Nick Cage fan . I'm A fan of the Pang Brothers . I fell asleep on this English remake of their first / second ( depends upon which brother ) film . The film has Cage as a hit-man known as Joe go to Bangkok for one last hit , or rather series of hits , there are four targets all in Bangkok which will allow for a large payday for a little movement . He gets hooked up with a street hustler for an aide and guide , whom he intends to kill when the job is done . He also meets a deaf mute pharmacist . . . . zzzzzzzzzzz . What sorry was I sleeping ? Slow brooding film is too slow and brooding . It put me right out . Which isn't normal for the Pangs who create films that make you want to watch to the end even if the material isn't very good . Despite not really caring what happened , I'll try it again when it hits home video .
What am I watching ?	I've only watched a couple of Takashi Miike's films and I'm not sure what to make of them . They are technically well made but rather haphazard in most other areas . I tend to walk out wondering what it was all about . Ichi is about a missing crime boss and the money that went with him . The story centers on the search for him by a man who will do anything to find him . While I can admire what I was watching on a technical level , I can't really say that I really cared about anything that was going on . I think my attitude is best explained by my admiring all of the pieces , but not caring about the whole . I liked the look of things , say the unique way they have for questioning a rival gang boss , but I can't really say that the sequence really served any purpose , well not in the way it seemed to degenerate into an exercise in , some what funny , cruelty . The film is nasty and graphic and funny , often in the " should I be laughing at this ? " sort of way . Its far from for all tastes , but I would hope that people are not coming upon this unaware . .
Too much money was spent for too few laughs	I'm not a Steve Carell fan . He's okay but nothing special . Completely unremarkable tale of Carell going off to congress and being asked to build an ark by God . Its okay , but 200 million bucks on this ? WHY ? The animals and one big effects sequence doesn't justify it , there are too few laughs . the only real reason to see this is Morgan Freeman as God . His scenes have that nice warm and fuzzy feeling that many people are looking for in religion , though to be honest most of it is just common sense . Still it nice to know that our common sense is perhaps , the way to salvation Worth a shot as a rental or on cable .
Your mileage may vary	Its big . . . Its opulent . . . Its high camp . I found this version of the classic story of the Phantom of the Opera to be very silly . Big and beautiful and so over done that I came very close to laughing at it . Don't get me wrong its not bad , its just so over blown , over the top , over done that its very hard to take it seriously . Many people I know who saw it loved it , I just can't get past the silliness of it all . Should you see it ? Oh yes , simply because they don't make movies that look like this any more , if they ever really did . Will you like it ? Hey , thats up to you . If you hate the stage musical stay away . Beyond that you're on your own .
A life of pain and cruelty	( There are spoilers ) Robert Bresson's meditation of life and Christianity as seen in the life of a donkey and one of his owners a young girl named Marie . This film was recommended to me by a good friend I figured I would give the film a try since respect him and his opinion . What hooked me into trying the film was his confession that the end of the film reduced him to tears ( a reaction that many fans of the film have . ) Another reaction that the film , and the work of Bresson in general , engenders is coma . Some people simply find the film dull and fall asleep . My reaction is somewhere between the two . I don't love the film , certainly . I also don't fall into the sleep camp either . For me this story , for all its lyric beauty , is one of the most painful and cruel I've ever encountered . Life is pain and suffering is to be endured until we end up in gods flock . The film made me profoundly uncomfortable and unnerved . First we have Balthazar who goes through life as a beast of burden , abused by pretty much everyone other than Marie , whom we meet as a young girl . As the donkey and the girl grows we watch as Marie endures her father's decent into pride and her life being abused by one of the boys in the neighborhood . This guy is a supreme turd and takes every opportunity to perform a cruel act , from putting oil on the road so cars crash , to robbery , smuggling and the repeated rape of Marie . This is a film that spells out very clearly how the mortification of the flesh is necessary for salvation . Death is a release . Which is understandable if your life was a terrible as both Balthazar's and Marie's . What am I to take away from this ? Certainly I don't deny that life is as cruel as ugly as this , but I also see why it has to be . Should I feel lucky that my life isn't as bad as this ? I don't know . I know part of my problem with the film is that I refuse to see the path to salvation through suffering . I know many people who take comfort in their pain since they feel it brings them closer to God , and thats fine , but thats not something I'm ready to accept . I like that the the film poses some challenges to how I think . I don't like how it makes me feel . How is the movie ? Worth a shot . It may work for you , just don't expect a happy Disney film , and expect a film that moves at its own pace . You're .
Too Much Pancake Make-up	Tex Ritter tries to solve the mystery of a band of hooded horsemen running roughshod over the country side around the Four Star Mine . The movie is okay . The plot sort wanders about for the required running time before coming to an end with a chase and a shoot out . Those wishing to learn how not to film a movie chase scene should be required to watch this as good guys and bads guys come from every side of the screen without rhyme or reason . There are a few too many songs that prevent the plot from ever being fully fleshed out . Actually the plot here is more a sketch or a rough idea than an actual story . Its completely forgettable and unremarkable . Its not bad but its something you'll have forgotten five minutes after you watch it . A Final Note : Whoever was Tex Ritter's make-up man should be shot , I spent a great deal of the movie wondering when all of the flour on his face was going to turn into a cake . Its awful and makes Ritter look like a dead refugee from the silent era .
Great action scenes are joined by a cliché filled plot and a lack of intensity in direction . Worth trying , but I'd wait for cable	Movie based on a video game series . Here Agent 47 , a hit man for a secret organization finds that a change in a hit has left him a target . Wanting to know why , and how his target is still alive he begins to search for answers while Interpol and the Russian police pursue him . The action sequences are good but the rest of the film never really works . there is a lack of intensity and almost no suspense as 47 chases after his answers and is chased himself . It doesn't help that the plot is pure cliché from top to bottom and other then the Russian setting you've seen this all before . It also doesn't help that there is a lack of caring in the direction that makes what we are watching outside of the action scenes bland . Its a disappointing film . Its not bad , and it is worth a look , though I'd really wait for cable , but this should have been better . This should have been a neat little film instead of a bland retread . 5 .
Quirky tale of a civilian astronaut is too quirky for its own good , but still delivers a few good moments .	Billy Bob Thorton is a once upon a time astronaut who had to leave the program to work on his family farm . Never having lost his desire to go into space he builds his own rocket , much to the dismay of the government . Off beat story is good but never quite pulls it together . Its a little too forcibly off beat signaled by the opening as Thorton rides around his farm on horseback in a space suit . Its almost like an annoying indie film that thinks being quirky means its a good film , with a bigger budget and bigger stars . Despite some great characters and some great exchanges ( I love Thorton dealing with the government people who want to shut him down ) this never adds up to the moon shot it was hoping for . this could have been something , but it just missed Worth a shot , but I'd wait for cable
Over rated love letter to the noir of old	This is less a review than a personal statement I've seen Chinatown several times and I have yet to see what people rave about . Don't get me wrong , its far from a bad movie , however I don't think its anything classic . The movie is a very glossy version of the noir films of the late 1940's and early 1950's . In some ways its closer to the 1940's noir where we have a detective attempting to unravel a mystery thats sure to end badly ( as the trend went on the detective began to fade in favor of " regular Joe's " ) . Without a doubt this movie would have fit in during noirs hay day , except that it has adult language , violence and sexuality . Certainly one of the big twists in the plot never have flown in the glory days of old ( now , in the context of the film or parodies its a joke ) . Its a well made film but its not a classic , its a modern version of a B-movie done in an " adult " style . However you look at it its still a movie , well made and dressed up , but still a B .
A good primer on some of the questions concerning , but its really much too short to provide any meat .	This film is essentially 11 questions answered by various people who refuse ( rightly ) to accept all of the Bush Administrations pat answers concerning what happened on . The film takes questions like " Could this have been foreseen ? " , " Did the Government have any clue this was due to occur ? " and " Are there connections to the Government to the terrorists ? " and answers them in bite sized pieces . The answers aren't too detailed but enough is revealed to want you to know more ( especially when some of them are frightening , like the fact the multiple plane hijack had been done 31 years earlier to the day and ended up with the planes being blown up in Jordan ) . From a place to start investigating this is a good film since it lays out a number of key issues quickly . If however you want more meat this film is lacking since many of the questions and answers could use more than the cursory explanation . ( The recent DVD release adds some extended interview footage and a condensed panel discussion which are interesting but not as detailed as they could have been ) . Over all worth renting or catching on TV ( if anyone is bold enough to play it ) but not worth purchasing .
Despite a good cast and great scenery the story never comes together	Norman Reedus plays a computer hacker who is brought from New York to Moscow by a Russian gangster in a plot involving 40 million dollars . Stand out performances and great location photography almost make up for a poorly written script . There is something about the plot that never rings true , which is a shame since the cast seems to go the extra mile to try sell the silliness of it all . I'm of two or three minds about the film in that I really liked bits of it but other bits left me cold , so cold that it over shadows the good stuff . Some how I with that whom ever wrote this had some idea of reality . That said I did like the end , and in a weird way would say give the film a go if you run across it on cable . ( But what is Andrei Konchalovsky doing as a writer and producer of this film ? Clearly his Tango and Cash are showing )
After a good start the film waders off and never really amounts to much , but its worth seeing late at night curled up on the couch	After a gallery robbery the crooks wait in a warehouse for the man who hired them to show up and pay them . The location was once used to make films of an unsettling nature . As the night wears on the ghosts of the past , a rat in the ranks and a hostage they grabbed all conspire to to dwindle the numbers of thieves . Okay caper horror film starts off good and then begins to wobble as logic comes and goes beginning with why do they kidnap the woman who's car they carjack ? ( Other than to get a woman into the mix . ) Taken on its own terms its an okay little movie , unremarkable and somewhat forgettable , but haunted by the feeling that the film should have been better . As it stands now its something I'd wait to stumble over on cable .
You'll hate yourself for doing it but complications of the plot keep you watching an other wise dull movie	This isn't the clearest story ever plotted . I know what happens , but tying to explain it with out giving away too much is going to be rather difficult . Basically a woman takes a " vacation " from the radio program on which she is the star . Its not explained why , though her overly emoted good bye to her would be boyfriend suggests that there is an ominous reason . At some point she is killed and an innocent woman is blamed . Will the real killer ever be caught ? What was the secret that forced the dead woman from the radio ? Will we remain awake long enough to find out ? Simple this is not . This is a complicated tale of murder thats interesting despite the fact its very talky , over emoted and just a tad loopy . Its the type of movie that keeps your interest simply because you want to know whats going on not because its very good . Actually it was so dull and talky that it was putting me to sleep , however I had to fight it because I had to know what was going on . If you want to see a movie that makes you stay with it to the end because you have to see whats going on give it a try . If you want to see a film that actually good try something else .
Once you click into the vibe you can pretty much guess the plot line and punchlines	Clever but not that well done animated film from Jerry Seinfeld . The premise is that Jerry is a bee who on his first day at work end up being saved by Renee Zellweger . Wanting to be polite he does what a bee should never do , he talks to her to say thank you . They become friends . When he sees jars of honey in the store he sues humankind in order to get it back . Well animated , this is essentially a 90 minute Seinfeld routine that is all puns on bees . Its amusing , with some hysterical gags , but mostly its all obvious once the story gets going . Its a sketch stretched out almost to the breaking point . I didn't hate it , but after 15 minutes I was ready to get up and move to another theater . ( Had I had a TV remote the channel would have changed ) . What really irked me was the way some of the voice cast was put into the film . The lines of say Ray Liotta seem to have been lifted from other sources and then dropped into the film . Other characters seem to have been recorded alone ( which they probably were ) and then spliced badly with the other voices so that everyone seems to be speaking all alone . There are odd gaps between lines of dialog as if robots with no sense of how conversations go together put it together . Its not bad but I paid 11 bucks and spent 90 minutes seeing this ? Wait for cable
Good pieces never come together	When a probe is sucked through a worm hole in space to an alien planet three chimps are sent to see what happened to it . In order to sell the mission to the public the grandson of Ham , the first chimp , now a circus performer , in space is sent as one of the astronauts . Wittily written , decently animated and reasonably acted film that is just okay instead of great . What went wrong ? This should have worked . The pieces and the individual scenes all work nicely and are more often then not funny and clever . It's clear that the filmmakers were playing to both to the adults as well as the kids . Come on the reference the video for Addicted to Love . I saw some of this as clips at New York Comicon and was really looking forward to it . All of the pieces are there for a better movie . . . it just doesn't work as a whole . The pieces never fully come together . Its like looking at a puzzle where the pieces come together to for a picture but its not complete because the pieces never quite touch . I think part of the problem is that they never had a complete idea or story . the earth stuff works , but from the very first alien scene its clear that those scenes are often half formed . Its as if they went before the cameras with a bunch of place holders still in place . Its great in most of the parts but disappointing over all . ( A second viewing may change my mind but as bits this has some of the best writing of the year . The problem its not a satisfying whole . ) Worth a look on DVD or cable . - not for the ten bucks a head in theaters .
Reaistic , disturbing to be sure ; but I'm not really sure why I was watching it	Well made and realistic portrait of a group of psychos terrorizing a couple who come home from a friends wedding . Thats as basic a plot as you can get without going into details . I'm not sure what I make of the whole affair . While its realism is a plus I really don't see the point . What do we get from seeing a story such as this ? I don't know . To be certain this could mirror what may happen in a sadistic home invasion , but at the same time did I really need to see this compressed to 90 minutes . I think that the presence of Liv Tyler both helped the film get a release , but also makes you wonder if the film actually is up to something more . I'm not sure and find that it kind of dances close to the torture porn line . And yes its well made and yes it has frightening images but I don't know if its " good " ( I think it plods on too much ) . Its this amorphous something that is neither fish not fowl , much like the claims its based on a true incident yet having the disclaimer in the credits thats its really just fiction . ( And no its not based on the French film they since it was in production before that film was made )
Voodoo horror story that is okay but doesn't amount to much	Robert Alda plays a man haunted the vision of a beautiful blonde he sees in his dreams . He is restless and quits his job which put him in a bad way with his girlfriend . One night while out walking he finds a doll that is the image of the girl in his dreams . When he returns the next day with his girlfriend not only does the shop keeper ( Neil " Commissioner Gordon " Hamilton ) tell him he commissioned the doll , but he shows the couple one that looks like the girlfriend . It soon transpires that the dolls are voodoo dolls and Alda is in the clutches of a voodoo cult run by Hamilton . Its weird seeing Commissioner Gordon from TV's Batman as an evil villain but here it is . The movie itself is an okay little film thriller . Clearly done on the cheap the film is fine on its own terms but isn't anything really special . Its not really scary but more creepy . Unfortunately it never adds up to much . Its like watching an extended episode of a horror anthology TV series . Actually the film reminded me of the erotic thrillers that populate some of the late night cable stations since its clear that the Alda and the blonde are sleeping together and she is always two steps from being undressed , it probably would have been better if there had been some sex . Worth seeing if you run across it but not something to search out .
odd mix of the Bard and the Modern doesn't fully come together	Geoffrey Wright , who did Romper Stomper and brought Russell Crowe to the attention of the world , brings Shakespeare's Scottish play up to date by setting it in the under world of Melbourne ( or is it Sydney ? ) . the speeches are there and so is the flashy trash of Silk Stalkings or one of the other cable ( before cable was cool ) series that surfaced in the wake of Miami Vice . Its an odd mix of guns and iambic pentameter , which works as well as that description . Not " bad " as such , the mix just doesn't work and the result is more grating then ingratiating . Part of the problem is the need to fit the plot into a new surroundings while retaining the language . the result is some odd sequences with no dialog and music that are suppose to get things across the dialog really can't because it doesn't pertain to now . The longish opening sequence before Macbeth meets the witches ( Goth School girls in Catholic School Girl Uniforms ) sets up the scenario which is changed from battling lords to battling crime families . This leads into the awkward meeting in an empty disco where Macbeth is holding a hostage . Turning on the lights and fog machine - for no real reason , Macbeth finds the girls coming out of the fog . My interest began to wane almost immediately and the scene where Macbeth's friend tells the drug lord of Macbeth's heroics kind of sealed the deal and I stopped watching and instead began to listen rather than watch ( or were the scenes reversed , I don't know I don't care ) . despite its awards down under the film just doesn't really work especially when the idea isn't a new one with earlier films like Joe Macbeth and Men of Respect floating around . If you must see it it wait for cable .
Thai Horror comedy is okay despite being not really funny or scary	After several gruesome deaths at another school the members of the " daredevil's club " wonder what happened to kill all the kids . When a student from the affected school transfers to their school they learn that the victims all called a certain phone number which would grant your wish then kill you . Partly out of curiosity and partly to get what they want , the kids begin calling the number , and dying . Not as bad as some recent Thai horror , nor as good as others , this film plays like Goonies-lite meets a gory horror film as the fun loving kids are killed in rather nasty ways . The mixing of the styles doesn't work since the film never seems to know what it wants to be . It doesn't help that you almost instantly know whats going on because the film doesn't really give you a chance to think anything else . Some people I know thought this was going to be the next big thing , unfortunately they were wrong and we're left with an unremarkable horror film that will probably be completely forgotten in another couple of years .
5 uneven Tales From the Crypt style stories done cheaply by master directors makes for just okay viewing	Tales from the Crypt like anthology of a group of people on a studio tour who get trapped in a " psycho " like house and tell ghost stories to escape . Of interest mainly for the directors involved-Joe Dante , Ken Russel , Sean Cunningham , Monte Hellman the film itself is a mixed bag . One story has to do with an actress getting her breasts done , another has to do with a Stanley Kubrick like director and an actor friend , Another has to do with a couple who go to Japan and discover a hanged man and the last has to do with a young woman and her twin . . or something . Three of the four stories aren't bad , if over long . One ( the girl and her twin ) is just fair . The problem is the films don't really add up to much , more so that the sting in each tale is left for the very end of the film where we are told what really happened . Its a weird way to do it , and it almost works , but not quite since any tension from the stories are long gone by the final revelations ( There is also a couple of lapses of internal logic as a result of the breaking apart . ) Worth a look on a slow Saturday on cable . I do have to say that the Ken Russell " Girl with the Golden Breasts " tale is very amusing and a vast improvement over his direct to video home movies . I especially loved his cameo .
Worth a look ( as a rental ) for fans of the directors others need not apply	Two half hour stories based on a Japanese anthology series . of interest because of who the director of the second story is-Mamoru Oshii . The show is sort of an animated Twilight Zone . The first story is called reflection . Its about a girl snorkeling on vacation who finds a camera . The camera appears to have been underwater a while . Curious about who it may belong to she has the film developed and finds one picture-that of herself with someone she's never met . It then becomes a quest to find out about the picture . . Its a slight story stretched to 30 minutes . The second story is called File 538 . Its about a detective watching a father and son and discovering some rather bizarre things . Told in a hard boiled style with minimal animation this is a head trip of a film with planes and koi taking a key role . What it all means I can speculate , but the gods know I'm going to have to see it again to try and make sense of it . While not as dense as Angel's egg , this is a trippy little film about the nature of perception , the universe and fish . Over all worth a look for Oshii fans - but as a rental simply because the amount of material is so minimal .
Hong Kong Milestone	This is a film that was the border of the old era in Hong Kong and the beginning of the new , effectively heralding Tsui Hark as the force of the future . The plot of a bunch of warriors taking on a great evil had been done before there was something about the way it was done here that made everyone sit up and take notice . Personally I'm underwhelmed by this film . It is a good film but taken out of its historical context it plays rather routine . Worse it suffers from Tsui Hark's habit of stressing form of content and the plot gets lost in the second half . Truthfully , by the time I actually saw this I was so hyped up that there was no way it could ever live up to what I was expecting . If you like martial arts film , or even action fantasies , try this , its not bad , its just not the be all and end all I know some people claim it is .
Don't even think about thinking since this film makes no sense . Take it as being just clever action scenes and remarks strung together and you'll have a good time	It begins with the search to prove that Nicholas Cage's great grandfather wasn't part of the plot to kill Lincoln and ends up a quest for a city of gold . In between there is lots of chases and action sequences . What can I say ? How can I accurately or critically comment on this film . ? I don't think its possible . Its a big wind up toy of a movie thats sound and fury signifying nothing . The plot is so silly and the plot points so unbelievable that it makes the first film look like deeply crafted Umberto Eco novel . I was constantly wondering how it was that no one had ever found the writing on the model of the statue of liberty or the hidden numbers on the desks or . . . must I go on ? Even I if I must I won't . Its a loud noisemaker of a film that you either give yourself over to or you go mad . Great if you want to take you brain out at the door and smash it with a large gold brick . The lines are witty and the motion pretty but its so vapid as to be beyond reason . In the right frame of mind its dynamite . simply because its a movie where your mileage will vary .
Just okay ventriloquist story sifts through most of the clichés and borrows some rifts from other horror films in a low rent and badly directed attempt at scares	Young couple finds a ventriloquist's dummy outside their door . When the man leaves to pick up dinner his wife is killed by the dummy . Investigating further he realizes that the dummy is connected to his past so the estranged son heads home to his fathers house where he hopes to unlock the secrets of what killed his wife . Dully directed this film runs through pretty much every ventriloquist cliché there is and then steals from a few other movies ( like Dead and Buried ) . Mostly unremarkable this is the sort of cheap movie ( there are almost no characters or logic all of the money going into some big sets ) that would have ended up on ScFi as a SciFi original , but since it has a connection to the people who made the Saw films got it a theatrical release . I think I would have liked this better on TV then shelling out 10 bucks a head to see this on the big screen . I'm guessing that once this hits cable or DVD it will develop a cult following of people who will feel that it under appreciated . What annoys me about this film is that it has moments , fleeting though they are , that show what the film could have been . There are creepy images of " monsters " and the like ( the image of our heroes dead wife ) that are truly scary , but these are the exception and hint at what the film might have been had the film had a better director . I didn't hate it , I just wish that I had seen it on cable for free where its poor direction and low rent nature would have been more acceptable than for ten bucks on the big screen .
A movie of the head but not the heart	Its been several days since I saw this film and find that it not only is receding from my memory but that I also am less in love with the film ; so much so that I dropped my rating down two points in the interim . When this tale of the Middle East , oil and the people who try to control both was done I felt that I had a great deal to say and I decided to wait until I found the words before I wrote up anything . The trouble is that days have passed and I find that the words have left me . I find that what I thought was an emotional response on my part was instead emptiness . While I was given much to think about , I find that I really don't feel passionately enough about the movie to explore the ideas presented . Hours after the film ended I no longer cared about it or its ideas . I find it sad that a film with so much important to say can erase any desire to go beyond the screen , or even revisit the movie . Don't get me wrong this is a well made movie , the problem is that when they filed it full of ideas they forgot to put in a heart . , a well made film of ideas that fails to engage your heart
Good mystery ruined by two unfunny cops	A killer known as the Black Ace is on the loose . The Ace leaves a calling card with the time of his victims death on it . The Ace has killed several prominent people and a rich friend of some of the victims , Winters , is looking to put a stop to it . Chester Morris plays a mystery writer putting together a book on the killer . He meets the daughter of Winters on a train on his way to offer what he knows in the hunt for the killer . Not long after that Winters receives a death threat and while in the middle of an air plane flight the flights flicker for a moment and he is killed . This is an okay film that is ruined by two bumbling cops Dugan and Clancy who push a witty and clever mystery into the realm of silly . Normally I like the work of Frank McHugh and Allen Jenkins but here they just come off as being bumbling fools . Its awful , or rather not funny . They take the desire to know more out of the mystery and the laughs out of the comedy . There is no real reason for them to exist except to kill time . If you can divorce them from the rest of the movie this is a good little mystery , something not easy to do . Worth seeing if you run across it . Not sure its a rental but on late night TV its worth trying .
Messily plotted horror film that should have been better	This film should have worked better but everything about it is just off . The cast is an international mish-mash none of whom seem related , the pacing seems to be random and there are plot points that seem to come from nowhere and go nowhere . Its unfortunate since the basic ideas in the movie are quite good and are the stuff that one could make a classic thriller out of . The plot has a family moving into a long abandoned house where strange things begin to happen . This we know is somehow tied into some child killings years earlier since those facts are given to us up front . The hows and the whys on paper sound good , but the execution is not . There are good points to this film and horror fans will want to at least give it a shot on home video or cable , but this is something that need not have been released to theaters at ten bucks a head .
Not very good adaptation of a not very good play	Walking out of the current ( October 2004 ) revival of the Craig Lucas play I overheard a couple talking about the film version of the play and it suddenly came back to me why it all seemed familiar , I saw it on TV several years ago . The story of how a woman who's husband can't take her any more and hires a hit man to kill her , only to send her away before he arrives is a very strange story . No one and nothing is who they seem to be . And the twists and turns seem rather random . The whole bit about visiting every Springfield in the country is just plain dumb . The dialog is clever at times but mostly it seems forced . Worse is the fact that this probably should never have been made into a film . The play which is full of whimsey and is stylized does not translate into a film well . The actors are okay but many are completely wrong for the roles . The Goldwyn / Farrow coupling doesn't quite work so the story isn't believable from the get go . If given the choice of play versus movie go for the play where the whimsey works better , however you would be better off renting or seeing pretty much anything else . for the bits that work . Side Note : Mary Louise Parker who plays Pootie and a couple other members of the cast of this film are in the current Broadway production . Obviously they are gluttons for punishment
Well made but its got a story you've seen a dozen or more times before	Late in the game film revisiting of the classic radio anthology series . Several years prior to this Universal released a series of films starring Lon Chaney Jr based on the series . In that series Chaney played a different character in each supernatural tinged story . Here there are no big stars . The story begins on a train where a strange man who seems to know the time with out a watch and knows the rain route having never been on it before , tells a fellow passenger the story of someone who got off a train when they were warned not to . The bulk of the film is the story told which concerns murder and attempts to cover it up with the clearly visible sting in the tail of how the story is a warning of future events . Its a good but unremarkable little film , one where you can pretty much guess whats going to happen ( which is the reason I'm sparse on details , if I tell you any more than I have you'll figure it all out in about ten minutes ) . Its worth a look but its far from memorable because its so easy to know whats going to happen .
Not great but , even after 20 years between viewings it stayed with me	One of the films in the Grindhouse Experience 2 is this Road Warrior wanna be rip off . Actually its one of many post apocalyptic action films made in the wake of Road Warrior . Its also a film I saw in the theaters when it came out . Okay , but unremarkable this is the story of a world where water is all but gone and one person holds the key . Various factions fight for control of the girl and it all comes to a head in a rather large scale battle . There's some good action , passable performances and a tribe of midgets . Its not particularly taxing and is perfect for a mindless Saturday night . Is it any good ? I hadn't really seen it in 20 something years and bits of it stayed with me which kind of says something .
Okay film suffers unfairly when compared to Tati's later Hulot films	First Jacques Tati feature film . The film concerns a festival in a small town and the colorful postman ( Tati ) who serves it . Originally shot in both color and black and white , with the black and white to be used if something happened to the untried color film . As fate would have it the film remained only viewable in black and white until recently because no lab would attempt to process the color film stock . Recently the color negative was processed and edited together by Tati's daughter . The result is a film that looks like a slightly faded color postcard from days gone by . I mention this because the film feel like an old snap shot of days gone by . The film is an okay film . Its funny and charming and very rough around the edges as befits a first feature . Its not a terrible film by an means but its not a great film . The film at times in fits and starts and there often seems to be long build ups to jokes that misfire , while some seeming throw away gags bring big laughs . Its a problem that plagued several of Tati's other films to a lesser extent , but here seems a bit more rampant because there doesn't seem to be the same rigid control Tati had in the Hulot comedies . Speaking of the Hulot films this film appears to have been raided if not for gags but for a certain visual style . I think every later film save Play Time has echoes in this one . I like this film , but I don't love it . Its not a film that I'm going to be putting on again any time soon . Yes I will watch it again , particularly once the memory of my recent marathon viewing of the Huolt films fades . If you're a Tati fan I'd give it a try . If you've never seen a Tati film you could try it but be warned better films followed this one .
Well acted story done in by so so film making	I saw this as Vendetta and was very disappointed . Its not that the acting or the story was bad , its just that the direction and everything about the film on a technical level comes across as unimaginative bad TV . Basically its the story of an Irish family in Boston where some end up as good guys and some as bad . Daniel Baldwin stars as the head of the Irish Mafia who is running into trouble . I really can't say much about this movie . I wanted so much to like it but was forced to keep repeating " This should be better , this should be better " over and over to prevent my frustration from harming the TV . Its not quite that bad , and it is worth seeing on cable . I just wish it was better .
Sex and Violence , lots of it	How do you review this objectively ? I don't think you can . You either enjoy this sort of thing or you don't . I've given the movie a 5 not because its either good or bad , it simply is and I can't try to rate it for that reason . After a soft-core photo shoot the photographers and the models go to a house in the mountains where kinky sex takes with occasional interruptions by a mud-covered demon / psycho who tears the men apart and has his way with the women . Plotwise thats about it , sex followed by violence followed by sex . . . I don't know what else to say beyond that . Certainly its well made with sex scenes that are quite steamy ( and kinky ) . I can't say that there really is a point beyond the melding of sex and horror . If its suppose to disturb it does that . If its suppose to titillate it does that too . I just don't know if you're suppose to feel both emotions at the same time . As I said you either enjoy this sort of thing or you don't . Whether you watch it is your own choice , just don't say you weren't warned .
Travolta's acting ruins any of the joy that this buoyant musical may have produced .	This is the film adaption of the musical based on the film by John Waters . I liked the Waters film but it was never more than a passing like . The musical never appealed to me , I never cared for the music so I never saw the show . Everyone in my office is raving about it and seeing it multiple times so I gave it a go . Its been said that love for the film will ultimately be gaged by how one reacts to John Travolta and his portrayal of Edna Turnblatt . Travolta is awful . I disliked him intensely and so had to give up the film despite a mostly excellent cast . With an vocal performance that changes from moment to moment and an accent that is , I don't know what the heck it is , this is one of the worst performances I've seen in ages , even when compared to some of Travolta's other recent goes at screen acting . Putting Travolta in a dress doesn't make him a woman , hell one need only think of J Edgar Hoover to know that a bear in a dress is still a bear . Travolta moves like a macho trucker on triple dose testosterone in a dress . He plays it like a guy who knows nothing about women . I don't know if its his choice or the directors but it just kills it for me . Its funny for all the wrong reasons . I know the part is suppose to be broad but this is pushing it . Other than that core mistake the film isn't that bad and those looking for a bouncing up beat film could do much worse .
Why has this attracted so much attention when ultimately it isn't that great	A French entry in the slasher genre , Haute Tension or High Tension , tells the story of friends who travel from Paris to the familial home . Once there a crazed man shows up and begins to slaughter everyone . I've been reading about this movie for a while and it seems that people either love it or hate it . The debate seemed to be so passionate on both sides that I put aside my dislike for slasher films and gave it a shot . Well made , this film looks good . It looks to be more than your run of the mill mad slasher film . The film is also very well acted . The actors and actresses actually turn in something more than the typical phone in performances of the genre and become real people . Frankly this film has a good deal going for it , and yet it ultimately remains a slightly better than normal slasher flick , but a normal slasher film none the less . Even with a hint of lesbianism and a few nice twists added to the mix , its not much different than many other films . This isn't to say that its a bad film , its not . Its a decent little thriller , but its not the be all and end all that some people have labeled it . While it maybe a step above the run of the mill , its promotion around the world leaves me bewildered since there are many other films more deserving . Still if you want to see a good slasher film try this . . ( Probably should be higher but I'm not a genre fan )
Last of the I Love a Mystery Films is more Southern Gothic drama than mystery	Last of the I Love a Mystery series is an odd duck film . In someways its the least of the series , yet in other ways the film has some great elements ripped from the pages of the radio show and so is closer to the series than the preceding Devil's Mask . The plot has Jack and Doc going to the Southern mansion with a young girl who is returning home to meet the family she never knew . Murder and mayhem follow as they arrive in time for the reading of a will and the family is not happy about interlopers . Its high Southern Gothic time as all sorts of misdeeds come to light . Odd film seems to be striving for something other then the typical mystery during the first third , which is all flashback during which we get the detailed set up for what is follows . Its good but it makes you wonder what any of it will do with the later mystery ( The sequence is hurt by all of the actors playing much younger versions of their age appropriate characters in the last two thirds ) . Jack and Doc wade in and do mix things up a bit but mostly this is their clients story and she commands more screen time . Its an okay film but it feels more like a film that might have been inspired by What Ever Happened to Baby Jane with the Gothic nature pumped up to almost sleazy levels ( certainly the portrayal of a well off Southern family in decline is almost offensive bordering on inbred ) . Give the film points for not following a clichéd path to its conclusion , or if it is , hiding in it in some nice dressing . As I said its an okay film , but it clear the series was rudderless and that with stories like this the studio didn't really care , so of course , neither did the audience . Worth a look for fans of the radio program , Southern Gothic or those who want a mystery that is far from your typical .
Good but not great story of a man saving children in time of war	Film version of the life of George Hogg . Hogg was a British national who went to China during the Rape of Nanking as a reporter and ended up taking care of a bunch of orphans in the face of Japanese barbarity on the Chinese people . The version I saw was dubbed completely in Chinese and had English subtitles . As it stands now its a good but rather standard film about a man who tried to do something in the face of war . The film stars Jonathan Rhys Meyers as Hogg . He's fine , but I don't think he's given much to do since much of the action seems to be reduced to cliché , even the romance with the broken Australian nurse has the feeling of been there . Chow Yun Fat and Michelle Yoeh have small but important roles ( respectively ) as a general who befriends Hogg and a black marketeer who helps him . I liked it but didn't love it ( its one of those films thats " almost . . " but isn't and falls between the cracks ) . Perhaps because of the possibly bad subtitles or more likely the clichéd script the under appreciated Roger Spottiswoode used just isn't great . This isn't to say there aren't a couple of great set pieces , there are , the attack on the train in particular , but its not enough to raise the film from the near great to the great , or from nearly very good to very good . It just sort of misses . The just sort of misses feeling was re-enforced after I read some pieces on line which gives more details on the real George Hogg ( He needs a miniseries about his life not two hour film ) 6ish out of 10
Retro regional horror is okay of taken on its own terms	Five people stay over night in Hanley House , a supposed Haunted Mansion that has been left sitting unoccupied since the Hanley's abruptly up and left years before , leaving all of their things behind . Good little horror film that was the sort of thing to play on the bottom of a drive-in multiple feature this is a movie that seems to have been about five to ten years out of date from when it was released-Its black and white and low on gore and monsters meaning it had nothing on the films that say Roger Corman was turning out , nor does it have the shock value of Night of the Living Dead . Clearly made on the cheap the film still manages to create some tension with its use of shadows and dry ice . The cast is game if uneven and all over the place . Its worth a look if you're in the mood for a retro-drive in night or want something more akin to the Haunting then something more graphic .
Off beat comedy is bit too cynical to be wholly enjoyable	A just fired girl chasing her paycheck meets a broke drunk millionaire on a bridge . He thinks shes going to jump , like he had been intending . She takes him home to his house where they get to talking . Its decided that he will get money together , teacher her to be a lady and then set her out to his rich friends to find a husband and then pay him finders fee . Odd ball romantic ( ? ) comedy drama is decidedly not your run of the mill Hollywood movie . Rarely has a " comedy " been so cynical . Love , even when you find it still is no match for money . The cast is excellent and keeps you watching even when you can't believe how mercenary everyone on screen is . The script is very good with lots of witty lines and exchanges ( the early cooking scene is excellent ) . the script also provides some really good characters that are not the usual assortment of people you find in films of this , or any other sort . If there is a down side its that perhaps the film is much too cynical . There is something about its tone that while amusing prevents you from completely connecting . Certainly its worth a look since odds are you'll not find a film with a similar attitude for 40 years . 6 or depending on your mood .
Good but not great	You either accept this movie as it is or you don't . This is a very silly movie about a group of brothers who form a soccer team and find self respect in doing so . Its basically a kung fu movie done as a soccer film . As I said , its very silly , for example the villain's soccer team is called Team Evil . The film is knowing and cute and sweet and funny . . . . . . and I didn't care for it . Don't get me wrong , I laughed and I smiled and I thought it was way too long and occasionally over done . Perhaps this plays better in the " short version " that Miramax was going to release in the US which was to be about 20 minutes shorter then its original , and apparently now restored running time . To me its an hour long story , not two . What boggles my mind is that the film is going to get any sort of real release here . Granted the release date has been changed several times , which has caused the director and star to be on TV shows promoting a film that was now months away . But I can't help but wonder if someone really likes the film or if they think the combo of soccer and kung fu is going to play well in Peoria or at least to Peroria's help . Frankly its not that good and no better than any of several dozen comedies that Hong Kong film makers have produced over the years . Then again I know this has been a big hit on the festival circuit and I've been reading about it for a while in articles by people who really like it , so what the hell do I know ? If you like silly try it . Who knows it may strike you as something wonderful , as for me I'm simply going to remain puzzled . No I'm going to watch Bend it Like Beckham again .
A bit too light hearted to be taken seriously	Richard Gere stars in the story of Clifford Irving and his attempt to sell the the Howard Hughes autobiography . This humorous telling of the tale either will work for you or it won't for me it just sort of missed . The problem for me was that the same story was told with the actual people in Orson Welles great film F is for Fake . Having that film in may head made the often silly presentation here , difficult to take . Its not bad but it not really believable as Marcia Gay Harden's accent make abundantly clear . Its dress up time more than anything else . If you can get past the artificial nature of the presentation then you're going to have a good time .
Its okay , but I'm not sure its Oscar material	This is the story of a priest trying to save the soul of a miserly gentleman by giving him a glimpse of the next life . From a technical aspect this is great film . The detail is wonderful , look at all of the nick knacks in the small cottage , the dreaminess of heaven , and watch how the car races down the road and around the corners with everything jangling about . Its a joy to see . The characters are wonderfully amusing and expressive and I can only imagine what say The Triplets of Belleville would have looked like in this style of animation . The problem is that the characters aren't given much to do . Its basically a long build up to an okay joke . I went searching for the film when it was nominated for an Oscar this morning . Its an amusing story that is good but not great . I can see how in the right frame of mind this is very funny . But it amused me more than it made me smile . I doubt that its going to stick in my memory .
Good set up wobbles and falls flat in the final reel	Willem Dafoe is a troubled detective who is now teaching at the police academy . Years earlier he helped solve a series of murders that were laid out like works of art . . . especially when seen from a specific location . When a frisky couple knock into a door in their building they unknowingly step into a crime scene that once again has echoes to the earlier case . Dafoe is called in to take a look and it soon becomes clear that the killer is intent on bringing him into his ghoulish works or art . I want to say this is Saw for the art set , but its not quite that . To be certain the murders are gruesome and very clever , but this film aspires to be more than a catalog of death and destruction . For the most part this is a good little thriller about a troubled man searching for a unique killer that he doesn't want to deal with since its opening too many doors he wants to keep closed ( Dafoe's character is an odd duck . Points to the filmmakers for giving us a very odd man for a central character ) . For most of its running time I really enjoyed the film . The problem for me was that the ending didn't really come together . The film ends but it isn't really resolved , which considering how it ends makes sense but left this viewer ( and my dad ) going , thats it ? It was a disappointment . The real question is is the film worth seeing ? Actually yes . The murders are unique and the film keeps Dafoe's character is worth seeing . I don't know if I had paid 11 bucks to see this on the big screen I would have been so forgiving , but on IFC in Theaters on cable it was worth the time . ( because of the flat ending )
Even though I cried like a baby I can't whole heartedly recommend this film adaptation	The film adaptation of Jonathan Larson's stage musical thats been playing for almost ten years on Broadway is the story of a group of friends who live in New York's Alphabet City over the course of a year . By now everyone's heard the tale of how Larson died before the show opened and how it went on to win all sorts of awards . For me the play always felt as though it was a draft or two from being perfect , however since the creator died suddenly before that could happen the play had to remain as it was . It is a good show , that for me was of a time past , even when I saw it a year after it opened . The play has been opened up and reset in a make believe New York that is just as unreal as the stage world it comes from . Songs have been rearranged and rethought . Most of the original cast as been tapped for the film . The results are decidedly mixed . The performances are uneven with Idina Menzel seeming to be in another movie altogether ( making you wonder why anyone would date her ) while Jesse L Martin blows down the house as Tom Collins and makes you wonder why he's not a superstar . ( I won't go into how everyone really is too old for their roles now ) The opening up of the film for me diminishes the whole affair and I'm not too sure about some of the some placements . Many of the songs are now people walking and singing or biking and singing and it seems like bad , or just okay music videos , but where videos run 3 or 4 minutes this goes on for over two hours . It mostly just misses ( and majorly backfires during I'll Cover You ) . This should have been directed by a better , more creative human being ( I liked the idea of the once attached Spike Lee ) What survives are the songs and the power of the music that at times had me crying like a baby . Larson wrote some kick ass songs and much of their power is retained despite Chris Columbus ' major mishandling of the material . These are songs about life and death , and their power and life shines through . To be honest the way to have made this film is clearly indicated by the movie itself - it should have been a film by Mark , the film maker in the story . The few times that we see what he's put together , especially at the end , I was struck by the notion that was how the film should have looked and behaved and moved . Someday , perhaps , maybe someone will make a film version that looks and behaves like that , and then we will have a rent thats worth paying for . 6 . . A Musical about a " year in the life " that has music and only flashes of life . Wait for video .
Good not great film is too faithful to be truly wonderful on its own terms	n an alternate 1985 , when Richard Nixon is working on his fifth term , someone throws former superhero The Comedian out of his high rise window . One of his former allies , a masked crusader name Rorschach smells a rat and he begins to contact his old cronies because he fears that some one is going after former superheroes . What Rorschach doesn't know is that what is going on is way beyond simple murder . Alan Moore and Dave Gibbon's classic comic story has finally come to the screen . This is a story , which along with Frank Miller's Dark Knight Returns changed not only comics but culture ( all culture ) forever . I remember reading the graphic novel version of the comic when it came out and being so floored that I went around giving people copies of the novel . The film is that its good but not great . It is too faithful and too artificial to truly be great . There are the seeds of a great film here and when they eventually remake it there will be a great film version . Zach Snyder is a transcriber here . He is far from the visionary director that the ads and some reviews have described . What he's done is essentially take Dave Gibbon's panels and put them on the screen . There is very little original to what he's put on the screen . Much of the dialog seems to be Moore's as well . On some level its almost as if he ripped the pages from the novel and put them on the screen . Yes Snyder and his collaborators have made cuts and changes , but for the most part what you see is the novel . The problem is that Snyder in being faithful to the comic has forgotten that with a comic the mind will connect the panels and that the mind will add life to material between " the lines " . Snyder in being faithful to the material never added the life to his tableaux . There is no life past the edges of the screen . I never really became engaged until about half way in when the power of Patrick Wilson's acting lifted the film despite the other short comings . Wilson brought a life to the proceedings that transcended the rest of the film . ( This isn't to sell the rest of the cast short . Jackie Earle Haley , Jeffrey Dean Morgan , Matt Frewer , and Stephen McHattie are Wilson's equals ) Snyder's faithfulness to the book has also caused another problem , it shows the limitations of the source novel . This is not to sell the novel short only to point out what works on the page doesn't work on the screen . ( I want to raise questions about plot points not being all that great but I'm not sure if the problem is Moore's or Snyder's so I'm going to reserve picking the plot apart until I see the directors cut and reread the novel - though I will say that some of the Mars material is silly ) Snyder is also too faithful in his shot choices . We don't need all of the shots that are exactly the same as the comic . Set up the situation , and let it play out in real space with out the need to match the comic panels . And while I'm bitching about being too close , we don't need the whole sex scene between Night Owl and Silk Spectre , nor do we need to see ever broken bone , every whack in the head with a meat clever . Less is more . We know the pair is having sex , we don't need a Leonard Cohen video . And didn't Snyder ever realize that when you want to have violence continue to have an effect you show the results once and then you have the audiences attention , since after the third time it becomes silly . I know it seems like I'm taking the film apart , and I am . I can't help not doing it because this film should have been better , this should have been so much better . I mean the moment when Patrick Wilson suits up for the first time in a long time was magical . but little else is . I blame director Snyder who either just is copying some one else's material or is falling back on tricks - say Slow Motion . to cover his limitations . I think if Snyder had used this script and this cast and had dared to be different in something other than the ending I think he would have made a great film . Lets face it the reason the novel is so popular is that its a great story and when thats allowed to shine , mostly in the second half the film is really good . I shouldn't be able to pull as much of this film apart as I am . I should have been more engaged and not thinking about what didn't work . Its a good film but its not a great one . And I know you probably want to know what about the ending . How is the end of the film as compared to the novel . I think its okay , it works . I don't know that its works as well as the original but it works . ( I should point out that I don't think the film as a bleak and dark as many people have said . I don't see the heroes in the film as any darker than any other hero in comics . They are heroes and anti heroes , and the only difference is that the damage they cause is " real " . What did people think would have happened when Batman kicked the snot out of someone ? The joke always was that Batman could beat someone into a coma but wouldn't cross the line to killing some one . . . here . . . things are less clear . )
Good but other than disturbing you I don't see the point	Dark film about a woman who becomes fascinated with her skin and self mutilation after an accident leaves her with a wound . Graphic and tough to sit through the film raises the spotlight on an extreme form of behavior that in milder forms can lead to people cutting themselves . What makes things more disturbing is the behavior isn't explained , it just is . I liked the film , as much as one can , however I was disappointed in that the film just sort of ended . Clearly its a character study more then a narrative , but at the same time I didn't get anything out of it , I just finished the film with a sense of " thats it ? " Recommended only for those with strong constitutions and those wishing to be disturbed
Poor plot almost does in some great action set pieces	( Spoiler alert-This comment has numerous spoilers ) If this were titled like the last one I'd say this was " Die Hard without a Plot " Disappointing go round for John McClane has good performances , spectacular action and a plot that makes no real sense . The plot has someone hacking into the US government computers . The feds suspect something is up and they try to bring in known hackers who could do this . At the same time some is killing off the same hackers . McClane is sent to pick up a hacker ( He's a NYC cop who's in NJ looking for his daughter-just don't ask ) and bring him Washington . Of course he gets there as the killers do so we have the first of many action sequences . McClane is tracked by the bad guys-please don't ask - and delivers the kid to the FBI . The kid is then sent off for questioning - but he recognizes the voice of the woman who hired him to write a code breaking program on the radio and we get another set piece . What follows is McClane and hacker trying to stay alive and stop a bunch of " terrorists " who want to shut down everything in a " fire sale " so named because everything must go-everything run by computer is to be shut down . Of course we think its terrorists , but no its for revenge - - - well maybe not maybe its for the money . ( Don't ask ) . The scale of whats going on is frightening except we don't really see that much of it , total chaos is reduced to some crowds and a few parked cars . Worse what the bad guys are doing makes no sense especially since its clear from some statements that they really didn't have to shut the whole country down . Even worse is the fact that for the most part all of the villains - Maggie Q excepted - are cartoon cut outs-they seem to be as McClane jokes , from 1-800 henchmen . Even the boss of bosses just sorts of wanders around a control room doing - - - nothing . He has no stature like Jeremy Irons or Alan Rickman or William Sadler . A challenge for McClane ? Oh please . Only in the last 20 minutes or so does he really begin to measure up - but then again he's pretty much put in his place by McClane's daughter ( he was beaten by a girl ? ) . This should have been a classic movie . Hell the action is there . The set pieces are spectacular with several scenes not in the trailers that make you go " WOW " . This is a movie that ups the action ante for all films to come . I just wish it had a solid plot instead of a piece of embalmed vermicelli to hang all of these excellent explosions on . If you are an action fan you will want to see this movie , though maybe not at 10 bucks a head in the movies .
Not for kids animated spoof is very good until the plot and the bathroom jokes overwhelm the fun	Robot Chicken like film that spoofs Armageddon and other big screen scifi and disaster films . Full of sex and violence and nudity and poop jokes this film had me in stitches for the first half of its running time as it played like Robot Chicken with a potty mouth . The problem is that just before the half hour mark the plot kicks in and they have to make do with the stupidity they've set in motion . On top of that the graphic bathroom jokes hit critical mass and the film begins to fall apart . Yea I laughed during the second half but not as much as the first . Considering I paid about 2 bucks for the DVD in a dump bin at Blockbuster I got my moneys worth out of it . The DVD contains a couple of short animated films by the same director , a Star trek spoof thats WAY too long at 8 minutes , two brief Forest Gump spoofs that are okay , and a truly twisted in a wrong sort of way as a mommy explains to her daughter why one of her Barbie like doll comes in a wheel chair . It should be stated none of the shorts or even the feature should be viewed by children .
Too many plot lines and too many characters	Columbia takes the Jules Verne classic and brings it to the big screen for the second time in a cliffhanging story that now includes aliens thrown into the American Civil War period tale . As 1950's Columbia serials go this is pretty good . The story , which in some ways is the closet to the novel isn't bad , dealing with trying to survive on the island as well as dealing with pirates , a mad man and the aliens , but it breaks down because by the end there are simply too many plot lines running through the story and there are too many characters to keep track of . It is enjoyable but at the same time to begins to circle back on itself about half way into the serial , which makes trying to watch this in a single sitting ( or two ) difficult . Worth a look , but keep it broken up over several nights .
I can't be objective	I'm at a loss here to be objective about this movie set in a persons mind simply because as good as it is , I can't get past reality . It begins on a railway platform with commuters waiting to go to work on Valentines Day 2004 , which would be nice , except it was a Saturday . While due to circumstances of the plot this could be okay , the problem is that the rest of the film was set in " real " places that I know , none of which seemed like the real place . I kept jumping out of the film despite excellent performances , to quibble about the reality of the film . That aside it wasn't a bad movie but more three stars rather than the four that most people are giving it .
With a villain named Zamboni it has to be good .	Short crime / newspaper story centered in Chinatown . The story concerns two warring Chinese families , the Lings and the Wongs . The daughter of one loves the son of the other . When a marriage is agreed upon a valuable jade necklace is to be passed to the couple as a means of sealing the new friendship . However when news of the wedding and the necklace is published villains plot to steal the necklace . After an intriguing first ten minutes or so set in Chinatown among the two families , where a large portion of the dialog is spoken in Chinese the focus shifts two two reporters who end up in Chinatown covering the wedding ( aided by a dog named Tarzan ) . From that point on the Chinese are pushed to the background as the Caucasians take center stage as heroes and villains . You'll forgive the lack of details but this film is so short and so breezy that I'd like to leave some mystery for anyone who sees this . Its not a " who done it " more a " when will they catch on " . There is murder and intrigue and of course a happy ending for everyone . This is a decent little movie thats worth watching . If it has any real flaws its that the movie seems to be made up of little sections that you can knock out and put together in variety of different ways . There's the Chinatown stuff , the newspaper stuff , the bad guy stuff , the dog stuff , and a few other plot threads which click together like a puzzle but don't really flow together like a natural story . Its not bad , but its not as good a it should have been . .
Good but not great look at the making of a New York Noir gem .	Expansion of a 1990 documentary about the making of Blast of Silence , a late in the game film noir thriller that was filmed on the streets of New York City to great effect . The original version was made after the film was rediscovered at a German film festival and a TV film crew went and followed director and star Allen Baron around the films locations while he talked about the film . This expansion includes that footage as well as 2006 interview with Baron . This is a good but not great look at the making of the film as well as the career of Baron . The problem is that the stories that Baron tells seem to be almost random and often spiral out in odd directions , for example he talks a great deal about a closed restaurant and how its was important to the New York theater community . Its not bad , its just not on point . When Baron is on point the stories are great . The film is also great in the way that it shows how the city has changed over the thirty years between when the film was made and Baron revisits the locations . ( I should also mention that on the Criterion DVD of Blast of Silence , where this film is included as an extra , there is also a series of stills that brings the changes of the locations up to 2008 . ) Baron also muses a great deal about the psychology of his character from the film . I'm not sure that its all that necessary since much of it seems pretty clear in the film itself . Overall I liked this look at the making of Blast , but I didn't love it . Its too unfocused to be wholly satisfying . Still I did enjoy the hour I spent watching it but I don't know if I would watch it again , not because its bad but I don't think I'd get much out of a second viewing . Worth a look if you've seen Blast of Silence . If you haven't seen Blast then don't even consider watching this partly because its full of spoilers but mostly what is discussed will mean nothing to you unless you've seen the film its about .
Good but unremarkable portrait of Amin fails to stand out from pretty much any other portrait of the dictator	Idealist young man becomes a doctor and instead of following in his dads footsteps goes to Uganda to do some good . His arrival coincides with the coup that placed Idi Amin in power . At first enthralled by the new President he slowly begins to realize that all is not well as he journeys from country doctor to physician to the man himself . Well made and well acted story is a bit unremarkable dramatically especially if you've seen any of the exploitation films on Amin or even Barbet Schroeder's Idi Amin Dada : A Self Portrait . Forrest Whitaker is excellent as Amin . I'm not sure his performance is really Oscar worthy since the only real difference between his performance and some of the other people who've played Amin-say Joseph Olita in Amin : The Rise and Fall , is that he has a better script to work with . Since its such a show offy role that its easy to take an excellent and rightfully praised performance , and make it seem like its " the best " of the year when its one of the best . Its a good but not great film . Add it to the long list of films that are Oscar winners for reasons that will escape you two years hence .
Its really all about Nigel	Similar to Madagascar but not the same this is the story of a zoo lion and his friends who race off to save the lion's son who has been shipped back to the wild . The movie is the race to find the son before he gets to the wild and what happens once they get there . I have to start by saying the voice cast is top notch here . Everyone does an excellent job . However I must single out Jim Belushi and Eddie Izzard as turning in classic animated performances . Belushi plays a street smart squirrel who is in love with a giraffe and he is a ball of fun . Its clear why he is the best friend of Keifer Sutherland's lion . He is a joy to behold . Even better is Eddie Izzard as Nigel , a koala who is totally crazed . Izzard is in constant motion and is constantly chattering about everyone and everything and he effectively turns a movie about a lion and his cub into a movie about a deluded koala with a tenuous grasp on reality . Izzard's Nigel will probably go down in history as one of the great cartoon characters of all time . This is a movie with fantastic animation . It all looks great . The director and some of his crew are from the effects team that made Terminator 2 and other big budget special effects movie look so great . The problem with this movie is that it was made by guys who until this film made their living making soulless special effects for soulless action films . The net effect is a soulless film . There is no pacing , there is little sense of danger . Worse the characters inhabit a world that isn't real . In this world , especially in the New York scenes , no one exists except the characters . They drive all through the city and encounter no one . There are no other cars on the street . To be frank there is no sign of life anywhere . Its terrible . It kills the film . Its sad but as alive the actors are their animated characters , while looking good , come across as dead constructs . Still the movie is worth seeing . Eddie Izzard , with an assist by Jim Belushi make it worth seeing . Clearly abandoned by Disney in theaters , you should make a run by this on home video or cable , where its less than the sum of its parts construction will be less annoying .
Prequel to a solid thriller is a formula for endless copying	Prequel tale about the men who ran the motel ( where they filmed the torture and rap of the guests ) in the first film and some of their first guests at a different motel . Better than it should be , but not as good as the first film which did what it did and knew when to get off . The problem is that any thing special in the first film is kind of wiped away but going too far into illogic ( There are too many guests for their plot to really work ) and descending into what no doubt could be a formula of hunt and kill . On its own its not a bad little thriller of the crazies on the prowl genre , but at the same time other than its setting and connection to the first film there really isn't much here , even if it it well done . Good . certainly , watchable . but nothing thats going to stick with you or be something you'll want to see again ( however if you ran across it on cable you might-if you like these sort of movies )
I liked it I didn't love it	Probable Oscar nominee didn't float my boat . Its a good film but I don't know whether too many people have told me how great it is or is it not that great and people are simply reacting to the exotic nature of the film , either way it didn't blow my skirt up . This is the story of Jamal who is on the verge of winning 20 million rupees in India's Who Wants to be a Millionaire . Certain this lower class kid must be cheating he's in the police station where some extreme methods are being employed to find out how he's cheating . Insisting that he is not cheating Jamal recounts his life's story with appropriate pauses to explain how he knows the answers . Far from what I expected , I didn't expect the level of violence , this is a good little film . Its the sort of thing where luck , or is it fate , allows you enough information to get ahead . Its the sort of thing designed to make you feel good . As I said I'm not in love with the film . I like it but I'm not in love with it . Perhaps its a little too cute at times ( The kid in the poop ) and it didn't help that the romance vital to much of the later part of the film didn't feel right to me . As an exercise in film-making its a masterful achievement blending a variety of styles into something uniquely its own . Danny Boyle is quite simply one of the best filmmakers working today one need only look at the last four films he's directed to see the range he has . Its a dizzying , great looking , great sounding film that makes even the squalor of India seem magical . I wish more directors had Boyle's abilities . That said the film didn't click with me . I respect the people who've fallen in love with the film enough to give the film a second go down the line . , but for now Its a good film that I don't think is one of the best of the year . ( For those , like me who didn't realize this was as violent as it it be warned - There are shootings , clubbings , torture , people set on fire , and nastiness to children . Its not a film for kids , though reviews I've seen made it seem so )
See one of the other two versions instead .	Weakest of the three versions of the story of the Scopes Trial this version suffers from shortening , rewriting and worst of all commercials . This isn't to say its bad , its not . The problem is that compared to the original Spencer Tracy film this film comes off as a good summer stock to the originals Broadway show case . The cast is game . Kirk Douglas is perhaps a bit odd at first as the William Jennings Bryan character , but after a few minutes he slips into the groove and all is fine . Jason Robards ' is excellent , unfortunately there is something about the way this was put together for TV that kills his momentum in the home stretch . Seeing this with out commercials doesn't help since the pauses still are there . If its on try it , but if you must see some version of this go for one of the other two .
Good but not great adaptation of an Osamu Tezuka comic . May play better once the sequels arrive	Film adaption of Osamu Tezuka's comic about a swordsman who's father sold 48 of his body parts to various demons for help in taking over the country and the world . As the swordsman kills the various demons he gets the parts back . He travels with a young thief named Dororo whom he picks up along the way . As the story progresses the pair encounters many demons and move ever closer to the revenge Hyakkimaru , the swordsman , desires . Its an okay adaption of the comic ( just now being published in the US ) , with several changes to the story ( Hyakkimaru's father is wounded in battle and angry at his Lord when he makes the deal with the demons not just desirous of power , the creation of Hyakkimaru's prosthetic body is something out of Frankenstein instead of carved from wood , the source of one of the swords that serve as arms has been changed and it appears that how and what our hero can see has changed ) , the film travels close to episodic nature of the comic in spirit if not in actuality . This presents a problem since much of the first half of the film is exposition , setting up back stories and who these characters are . Its okay but it doesn't allow for things to really take off until the second half ( which angles towards two promised sequels ) . There is also a weird shifting of tone from action to comedy to drama to horror in a way that doesn't quite work . ( It doesn't help that there is an over abundance of CGI that often makes things seem less real ) I like the film but I don't love it . Its not because I'm really enjoying the comic and the film doesn't match it , rather its just that the film is long winded and doesn't work for its own reasons . Frankly the almost two and a half running time is too much for a film that is too episodic to fully buildup momentum ( perhaps the next two films will play better with the need for set up removed ) . The look of the film is often breath taking and the action is quite good and over all the film is worth seeing if you are willing to allow for its flaws . I don't know if I'd pay to see this at 10 bucks a head ( a possibility since this has been popping in and out of theaters ) but I would rent it or wait for a cable appearance should a station actually purchase the broadcast rights . 6 . . - - - - - - - - - Addendum : I recently spoke with a representative from Vertical Publishing who is putting out the comic . He said that there will be no sequels because the Tezuka estate dislikes this film enough to stop production .
Too many characters sink the ship	Intersecting lives at the Ambassador Hotel on the day Bobby Kennedy was shot . Emilio Estevez has made an extremely well acted film which suffers from a weak script that tries too hard . It tries to get too many details right ( too many movie references and the time ) that the we notice the details but not the bigger story . Additionally this is a film with a large selection of characters . Its too many for the running time with the result that not enough of them are really fleshed out . I almost wish that we were allowed to just follow a couple of the characters instead of all of them ( it feels as though we're following everyone in the hotel ) since there are almost too many to keep track of . Its a shame since the film is otherwise extremely well made . An interesting misfire .
Reginald Denny plays detective in a good mystery	Reginald Denny stars a a detective who gets involved with the murder of an antique dealer . For the most part this is a by the book murder mystery with several interesting twists in it . The plot basically is that a wealthy antique dealer is suspicious that his wife is having an affair . People are watching the house and the husband appears to be involved in crooked dealings . The wife while out with her lover notices an old friend and semi famous detective at the bar . The lover leaves and the wife talks to the detective whom she talks into taking her home . Once there they find the husband dead and a very twisty , and not entirely fair , murder investigation is set in motion . Denny is as always a joy to behold and his interplay with his girl Friday is funny , if not rather cruel . Frankly if it wasn't clear they loved each other it would be abusive . A friend watched most of this with me and sat there in disbelief at the creakiness of it and of the bad acting . But this is an independent programmer that was made fast and cheap so that fact it is of any quality is usually a plus . Its not as bad as she made it out to be , and I don't think she hated it , she just enjoyed the camp value of it all . I liked it , but I didn't love it . Its a movie that sort of is unexceptional in anyway , and so just sort of is . Its a pleasant time killer and nothing more . In answer to Lucy's question , yes at some point I will watch this again , if only to see what I missed plot wise since the clues appear to all be there even if not clearly . . . .
Well made and well done-but I've seen this before	( This review will probably not help anyone ) The new Guy Richie movie is like Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels , Snatch and Layer Cake only more so . Its hip , its happening and very well made . For the life of me I couldn't tell you what happens in it or why you should care to see it other than its not bad for what it is . What it is is a knock off of the three earlier films by Richie and Matthew Vaughn that is certainly better then Revolver , but nothing special on its own , especially if you've seen the earlier films . I've been there and done that and didn't need to feel that I've wasted my time watching a tread . Is Guy Ritchie that limited of a talented filmmaker ? I'd wait for cable .
Some of the best animated madness is mixed with some of the blandest	Beautifully animated retelling of the Dr Suess tale of Horton the elephant finding the speck of dust where Whoville resides and then having to protect it from danger . As good as the film looks its an uneven affair . Brilliant set pieces ( anime homage ) and jokes ( monkeys stuffing bananas in their mouths ) are followed by exposition and bits that confuse humor with busy action . Despite or because of some of the best cartoon jokes in years the film still disappointed me - how could a film that is capable of such cleverness so often miss the mark ? Okay it doesn't miss the mark so much as be be dull ( or not live up to the mark the good stuff sets for itself ) . Half way in I was annoyed enough to want to leave . The one thing that doesn't disappoint is the voice cast with Jim Carrey fine and not too silly as Horton , Steve Carrell as the Mayor quite good , Carol Burnett evil as the Kangaroo and Charles Osgood wonderful as the narrator . Worth a look at some point . . . probably on DVD or cable .
Epic look tries to conceal a small scale story	Three friends from the sticks go to Shanghai and become gangsters in around the Paradise club . As time goes on and they climb up the ladder they find their relationships tested . Replace Shanghai with Chicago or New York and you'd have an Oscar nominated film for the art direction and costuming . This is a great looking 1930's gangster film moved to China and its a joy to behold . Its one of those movies you'd like to use as a moving piece of art on the wall . Unfortunately the script is really lacking . Dialog is sparse and not very colorful . Its almost bland retread dialog and it takes the edge off things . the characters are less then thrilling . The look the part but they don't have much beyond the look to carry them . Worse is the plot line which is a tad been there done that , but also really lacks any real action . yes there are some beatings and shootings but nothing really large scale until the final half hour , or rather the final shoot out . There is no real action to lift these characters up and put them into a a heroic or anti-heroic pantheon - there is nothing that makes them larger than life . It could be argued that the film that looks this good , opulent and often epic , but is ultimately a small scale story over inflated . had this been filmed less grandly it would have played differently-probably better-since we would not have been waiting for something epic to happen . This isn't to diminish the final shoot out which has a very high level of " Hong Kong Cool " its just that the 90 minutes that proceed it are undeserving of the pay off . Worth a look on cable or as a borrow , but not something I'd search out ( or watch again ) ( Just a question-how many Chinese films over the last decade or so all are called Blood Brothers in English ? )
Not a bad movie	Ursus is a farmer with a past that he won't tell his little brother . When a Princess he knows is attacked on the way to her wedding Ursus , with little brother in tow , head off to protect the fair maiden . Of course there are plots within plots so the simple drop off the princess trip becomes something else entirely . This is a very good swords and sandal movie that has a lot going for it . A reasonably complicated plot , good acting , and excellent action sequences that make it appear that the filmmakers at least understood the value of decent production values . This is one that's worth watching if you run across it . A Word of Warning : I've seen this film at least twice now and the prints , the Sinister Cinema print in particular , are extremely choppy , so much so that as much as ten minutes or more may have been lost to the bad nature of the prints .
Way too long and predictable	Superman is back . Its been almost 20 years in the real world , but its been five in the movie world . He's been off to find krypton and now he's returned just as Lex has set his evil plan in motion . Lois is engaged and has a son and . . . Long and predictable this film can be an endurance test . Its not a bad movie but for me this film was mostly a series of been there done that moments occasional with an scene of something new . I don't know if its because the film borrows so much from before or because the trailer pretty much laid out the whole movie , either way I was way ahead of everyone by the time all of the major players had been laid out . Which is bad when the movie runs two and a half hours . This movie just goes on and on and on talking over an hour and a half to set up everything . I just wanted them to get on with it because what was going on was not as clever as they thought it was . Worse still is the never ending commentary track of plot related questions that played in my head : Why does only five years pass while superman is gone when Jor-el and Einstein mention that the equivalent of thousands of years will pass ? Why did Superman have to wait for our astronomers to find the remains of Krypton when Jor-el's crystals should have known where the planet and its solar system once was-after all it came from there . Why does Lex keep trying the same ploy from movie to movie when it never works ? Why does lex employ morons ? Why , why why , why . . . almost every move made me question the choice that was made . I finally gave up , not only wasn't the movie going to answer me , but also there was no way to change it . This isn't to say there aren't good things : Lex taking on Superman on the Kryptonian island is great ; Superman saving Metropolis from the effects of said island is great ; Superman in flight is often great ; after Superman saves the plane asking everyone - and just Lois - if they are okay is one of the best moments in a Superman movie . The movie gets it right in small moments but blows the larger picture . Unless I had seen this as an IMAX 3D movie I would have been better off seeing it home on my home theater system . Its not bad its just not super .
a good Andy Milligan film	One of The better Milligan films that actually sort of works if you give it a a few allowances . One of Milligans English films , this movie actually is a good . . . okay . . . just . . . story of a vampires and such trying to get new blood into their family . ( that maybe giving too much away , or not since the movie doesn't wholly make sense . ) Technically competent which only has to survive the need to keep all of the actors in close huddle and some make up that would be too thick even on stage , this is a decent drama / thriller thats actually one of the few Milligan movies I can recommend on any level . Sure it dances the fine line around being a bad movie ( and crosses over into that territory a few times ) but its the sort of time killer you may actually watch to the end . Both better and worse than I'm making out this maybe the Milligan movie to start with if you have a yen so long as you understand what you're getting yourself into .
Great little mystery	Boris Karloff stars in a strange stage based mystery set on a military base that has to do with the death of a weapons researcher . The film is set in motion when a bunch of soldiers on leave pile into a boat and head back to the island base . One of the men is smuggling his new wife over in the hope of a nice quiet wedding night . In the process of finding a quiet place to consummate the marriage they stumble upon a dead body . The base is locked down and a sleuth is flown in . Weird mix of wedding night comedy ( which really doesn't work ) and fast paced mystery this is a rather schizophrenic film that would have been so much better had the comedy been left behind . The mystery is a dark and troubling tale with a great deal of violence and suspicion . The mystery is played for all its worth and it makes me wonder what the play the film is based on is like . The cast is mostly excellent , only Marie Pratt , as the only woman in the cast , is less than good . The real treat here is Boris Karloff as one of the suspects . He gets a real work out as an actor going through a great deal of emotion . It was always clear that he could do more than horror parts to anyone who really watched his performances , and this is a film that proves the point . Very short , it runs around 55 minutes , this movie moves like the wind and it never gets boring or too comedic . Absolutely worth a look if you run across it . The mystery is The comedy is ( thankfully its very brief ) over all
Good but clichéd telling of MIT students breaking Las Vegas	Story of an MIT student who needs quick cash who joins the legendary group of students and teachers who set about taking on the Vegas casinos . Well acted , with a showy performance by Kevin Spacey in a showy role . the cast shines in what is really a bunch of clichéd characters . Forgive me for saying it but Hollywood has taken a very good and exciting tale and made it into a cliché . Don't get me wrong its an exciting tale expertly if overly slickly told , but I never really bought it . I know it happened , I've seen a couple of specials on the History Channel on the group , but it wasn't quite like this . Its not bad , far from it , its very entertaining , its just not real . Its a very good movie , just not a great one .
Great story of a family dealing with a tragedy gets lost in a government cover-up	This review contains a potential spoiler . Paul Haggis's bloated tale about one man's search for his missing son , a soldier who'd just returned from Iraq . Well acted by Tommy Lee Jones and Susan Sarandon as the soldier's parents this is an occasionally touching film that makes the mistake of trying to be about something more . The film spins out of control and into territory covered by Missing some 25 years ago when the young man is found dead and the army begins to weave its own investigation . Haggis has an agenda unfortunately it makes for a confused story since the whole cover up , " what really happened " and why plot line gets in the way of the lovely and heart breaking tale of parents dealing with the death of their son . Sarandon's quiet internal destruction upon seeing her son's remains will haunt you . Regrettably the emotion in those scenes are drained as we loop around in yet another government is bad and is only out to protect its own ass at the cost of the truth tale . It doesn't ring true , even if it is , and the denouncements of the end seem to be contrived . I'm disappointed . Honestly better than I thought it would be , but not as good as it should have been . Worth a look on DVD or cable .
An okay kids movie that should have gone straight to cable	The newest addition to the Herbie the Love Bug series stars Lindsay Lohan as the new owner of the much traveled VW . The plot mostly concerns Lohan's rivalry with the evil Matt Dillon , a professional stock car racer who wants to know what make Herbie so special . Forgive me for not telling more of the plot but the film is rather straight forward and moves professionally from point to point on its way to the ending . Its workman like in its structure and its the sort of film that you'll three steps in front of . In its way it a perfect kids film . The problem is that this is another in a long line of recent movies that should have gone to cable instead of theaters . Sure the racing scenes and the special effects raise this up to something that looks good on the big screen , but at the same time you can't help but feel the Disney people working behind the scenes in such away so as to make this a DVD / cable hit . As enjoyable as this is , its not worth the cost of admission for your family to the movies plus popcorn . This is a movie to see on DVD where the kids can watch it over and over again and you can pause and rewind to see exactly how it was done .
A seventy minute movie	This is the story of a man who comes home from the army and finds his hometown not as he left it . Its been taken over by vice brought in by a rich boyhood friend who wants to get even richer . Eventually there's a new sheriff in town and it all comes to an action packed conclusion in roughly 70 minutes minus end credits . Movies should be as long as it takes to tell the story , be it three minutes , three hours or three days . Then again the shorter the movie the more screenings you get get in a day and the more money you can make . This brings me to the new version of Walking Tall , a movie I'm guessing was designed purely to make money . Its not that its a bad movie , its just that its about twenty minutes too short . Frankly this would be a good movie is the second half , er . . . second 35 minutes wasn't a blind race to the end where things stop making sense and action is cut short just to get to the next plot point . Either this was done to make money or because the second half was so terrible it had to be cut down . Personally I think its a money thing since the rest of movie is nicely paced . The Rock is quite good as the only one willing to fight back , and he's nicely paired with Johnny Knoxville as his ex con friend who becomes his deputy . Only the villains are a bit over the top , but then again its a cartoon of a movie so its okay . If this had been a complete movie I'd say go see it or rent it , but its so jumbled in the second half that the best I can say is wait for cable since an obvious rip off should not be rewarded with cash . .
Far from great but enjoyable on its own terms	Third of three serials made by a variation of the Dead End Kids , East Side Kids , Little Tough Guys and Bowery Boys is the best . More care was shown for this third outing and while merely adequate by serial standards it is probably the one a non-serial fan ( or fan of the stars ) would like . Here the adventures are focused around an airfield and the change from the boys typical urban setting helps to keep our attention . Also helping to keep things interesting is Lionel Atwill as the villain known as the Baron . Atwill was such a good actor that even the stinkiest of movies improved when he showed up on screen . This serial doesn't stink , but it does play much better for his presence . I think somehow the fact that Atwill was signed helped to lift the other actors who seem not to be sleep walking through their roles ( which also seem to be playing characters age appropriate ) As with the previous two serials the special effects aren't always that special and the cliffhangers are often resolved by cheats or borderline cheats . Still it's a diverting serial that falls toward the middle of the pack of all the sound serials made . Worth a look see for those who's curiosity is piqued by the idea of the Dead End / Bowery Boys in serial , or for those in the mood for a completely undemanding ( and unremarkable ) but enjoyable adventure tale .
Great looking and well acted film is a disappointing thriller can't make up it mind as to what it wants to be and so ends up as not much of anything	Six men set out to reach the point of inaccessibility in Antarctica . They have 60 days of sun light to travel to the most remote place on the continent by foot , something that has only happened one time before . Along the way they find the journal from a 1922 British expedition that appears to have gone horribly wrong . Soon things begin to mirror the earlier expedition . This is a frustrating film . Beautifully made and breathtakingly shot , with New Zealand doubling for the bottom of the world , this is a film that makes you shiver just from looking at each frame . As polar films go this is one of the best looking ones I've ever seen . The performances are all first rate and you sympathize with the men and their plight . The trouble is that the film's plot doesn't quite work . The mystery of why things go wrong is never fully explained satisfactorily . The film seems to want to blame both the the psychological break down of the men on what happens and at the same time wants to subscribe some form of supernatural explanation . Its possible to to have it both ways with a hint of the supernatural affecting the men , but thats not the case here . ( SPOILERS ) Here we have the journal which seems to kick off some events that only we see coupling with some things the men experience which are then sort of discounted by the denouncement at the end . Why are we shown hints of monsters that never materialize ? I don't have a clue . It reminded me very much of the supernatural war film R-Point which has an ending that seems to come out of left field . In both cases one is left at the end with a film that never delivers on the promise made when the films started . ( END SPOILER ) Worth a rental or a visit on cable , but this isn't something thats going to be in your need to see repeatedly collection .
AFter a great first hour it sort of peters out	A French Caper film who's recently restored version has been making the festival and art house circuit . The plot involves a man released from prison on the same day another man escapes from police custody on a moving train . Their lives intersect and robbery is committed . . . . The reviews for this re-release were glowing and when I discovered that Video Search of Miami had a copy I sent for it figuring that its the same price as a trip to The Film Forum to see it . When the disc came I sat and watched the first 40 minutes before being called away . I loved what I saw and couldn't wait to see it again . Six months later I have the time to sit and watch and starting from the beginning I revisit the first 40 minutes and travel on into the rest of the film . Having made it to the end I have to say that I heartily recommend the first hour of this film . This is a film that brilliantly sets a mood and a place and the possibility that something great will happen . Unfortunately once the film gets to a certain point all the possibility runs away like the rain that soaks much of the film . The trouble is that nothing is explained . We don't know what the job is until the jewelry store is cased . Characters come and go as if they will mean something and in the end nothing does . Plot lines are dropped , Corey , the released prisoner is being hunted by the mob and after a certain point that just ceases to be included until a moment of two later on when the crime boss he robs talks to the prison guard who laid out the " job " . Things just are . In the end this is a just a run of the mill crime story with a great first third . Another problem is that the police inspector takes center stage for most of the later part of the film and while he is an interesting character , he just doesn't do anything interesting . This film is full of interesting people and events but nothing connects to anyone . So much feels left out , to the point that I can only wonder at what sort of a mess the short version was . Can I recommend it ? Well maybe , yea , sort of . Its not bad it just sort of wanders off into " deep meaning " that means nothing . Frankly Criterion is coming out with a special edition of this and I was watching it so I could decide whether to replace it . I'm not . Although I have a nasty feeling this is going to become one of those movies I keep re-watching hoping to get it , like Heaven and Earth , a Japanese samurai movie I've seen several times and never liked simply because I keep thinking I'm missing something . That said the first chunk of this is really good . Hope for it to be on cable and to have a blackout occur an hour in so you won't be disappointed .
Good but not great serial has everything a serial should be but never quite puts it all together	Two marines take on the evil Lightning who travels around the world in a giant wing . The lightning uses his " electrical thunderbolt " to kill those who stand in the way of world domination . Well acted despite being full of serial character clichés , this is a good , but not particularly great tale . I know many people think this is the best serial ever made but I'm not among them . There is something too mechanical about the tale . Yes its got a great look and good cliffhangers , but for me it feels as though it was put together by a list instead of coming together organically . Don't get me wrong I like the serial . It in no way a bad serial and its certainly worth seeing , but is seems to be more what the perfect serial SHOULD be instead of simply BEING that serial . Give it a shot if you run across it .
Story of a Bigfoot like monster on the loose is best watched at night with the lights out	Two college students from Chicago decide to investigate the stories of a Bigfoot-like creature in the area around Black Lake Louisiana . Once there they find that no one wants to talk to them about the creature . However they begin to make friends who open up with tales of the creature . They end up in a battle for their lives when the creature comes after them . Drive-in fare from the 1970's is much better than its reputation would suggest . While certainly not the scariest movie ever made it does have its share of chills as the little seen monster causes mayhem to those who stray with in its grasp . I don't know what my reaction would have been had I seen this is a drive-in back in ' 76 and then driven home in the rural south . My guess is I would be dreading hearing the creepy cry of the creature ( a cry I know my brothers would have loved to imitate to scare anyone who saw the film ) . Definitely worth a look for those who don't need their horror films to be slick modern productions . ( And recommended for a dark and stormy night with the lights out ) 6 . ( 6 for IMDb purposes )
You'll Either Love It or Hate It	The story of what happens when Nichole Kidman arrives in Dogville is either going to thrill you or strike you as one of the worst films of all time . There is no set to speak of , only lines on the ground so the film comes off as nothing more than a filmed stage play . And while John Hurt's narration adds a dimension of literary quality to the proceedings , proving this is probably a better movie to listen to then watch . The performances are uniformly excellent across the board and those wishing to see great acting should see this . . . . . . but the movie goes on way too long and ends up being one of the most bleak films in recent memory . I'm not sure what the point of it all is and any ideas I did have got lost with the three hour running time . As I said you'll either love it or hate it - Me I'm in the five percent of people who'll be on the fence . .
better than it has a right to be	Direct to video sequel ( to the 1999 Geoffrey Rush film ) isn't bad for the early going as a journalist is forced to go back to said house in order to help the art thieves who killed her sister ( a survivor of the original film ) find a demonic statue thats also being sought by a professor of ancient art . The early going before they get to the house is interesting because its not clear how or why they are going back to the house . Once there the film degenerates somewhat into cliché territory as everyone separates to find the hidden statue and are done in by the ghosts . Logic and reason go out the window in favor of gore effects . Not the bad film you would think it should be , it instead is a slightly less than okay film because the second half of the film is confused and clichéd . Worth a look if you like horror films but wait for Cable .
Disturbing but . . .	Before bed last night I watched May , the disturbing film about a girl who solves her friend problem in a unique way . I'm of mixed minds about this movie . It certainly is a disturbing and unsettling film , but I'm not sure its very good . Why its not very good is that its almost too much in its own little world , and its not a world that is particularly real , rather its got the feel of a low budget film world . It works , but while you feel uncomfortable during it the feeling almost instantly disappears at the end . Beginning with a horrific act of self mutilation the film then goes back and tells the story of May , a girl who grew up with lazy eye and so had no friends because of the patch she wore . To help her her mom gives her a doll she made so she always has a friend . May becomes a veterinary assistant who still doesn't fit in well . When her personal life doesn't work the way she wants it too she takes steps to make it work . I won't say more because the advertising and DVD box tells you way too much already and you'll know what she's up to well before it happens on the screen . I think on some level thats part of the problem , this film has been telegraphed by pretty much everything connected to it so that all you're left with is the film making to keep your interest . You will be interested but I'm not sure you're going to love it had you gone in cold . I was left cold and feeling that it was just a tad pretentious , its logic and reasoning too contained in its own world , and May's head for it to be carried with me into the night afterward . A personal note - when I was growing up I wore a patch for several weeks because of a fight I had . My left eye was scratched and I had to wear the patch for several weeks while it healed . The patch I wore covered the eye , but was nowhere near the half face black monstrosity that May wears in this film . Mine was small and flesh colored and unremarkable . Additionally a girl I went kindergarten with had a patch for her lazy eye and it was small and did not cause her not to have any friends . May's patch was so big that I slid out of believing many of the films set-ups since it all felt like a creaky device to get the plot in motion and not anything that was real .
There are two versions of this - a short Chritopher Lee narrated one and a 26 part series	The short two hour look at a couple of Scifi subjects via film clips ( from trailers ) is a companion piece to the similar One Hundred Years of Horror . This is a history of science fiction told through a few interviews as well as with clips from various movies culled from movie trailers which are in the public domain . Like the horror film this film also has a longer 26 part version . However where the short Horror film made you want to see the longer version ( which is a masterpiece of Horror history when viewed in its entirety ) , this makes you want to move on to the next thing . Its a shame since the longer 26 part version of this film is actually pretty good . Its not the horror series but its still fun to watch thanks to all of the clips that it contains . The short version is narrated by Christopher Lee who simply links some of the segments with some oblique references . ( Lee is not in the long version ) . Given the choice I'd opt for the longer version and skip this short one .
Bloated remake is good but twice as long as it needs to be .	I don't hate the latest version of the Kong story , I just wish it wasn't so damn long and bloated . This is a long explanation of why I don't think its great film and CONTAINS NUMEROUS POTENTIAL SPOILERS . I know many will think I'm crazy , already one friend has threatened not to speak to me , but I must insist that this new version is excessive as Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings films are economical . Everything goes on much too long . For example it takes us an hour to reach Skull Island , during which time we are introduced to a good many characters who then simply disappear into the void at a later point in the film . The pacing is all wrong . Scenes just go on and on and on . We have long lovely shots of the scenery where nothing happens . Yes it looks nice but it slows everything down . Look at the original film , it moved like the wind and had sequences ( spider pit ) cut to pick up the pace . I don't think Jackson cut a blessed thing . ( It got so bad that toward the end of the film I had to restrain myself from screaming " would you just die already " to the mortally wounded gorilla ) And once we get to skull island Jackson insists on over doing everything , why have one when fifteen will do nicely ? Yes , the three T-Rex scene is perfectly balanced but everything else is just too much ( for example the insects and bat creatures ) . Amping everything up is a nice idea but Jackson frequently writes himself in a corner he can only escape using a deus ex machina or in this case a character who shows up just when things are darkest . Yes , the sequences are fun , but I never felt this cheated by any of the 100 or so old movie serials I've seen . I won't bother to discuss the New York sequence , other than to say why doesn't Ann freeze to death ? Again I don't hate this movie , it just very disappointing , and way too long . Wait for the crowds to die down before rushing out , or better yet wait for home video when you can use the fast forward to cut away the excess .
Stereotypical Hope Madness	This film is the best representation of what a Bob Hope movie is , a cowardly schnook operating with false bravado who gets in way over his head . With few exceptions this was the pattern that a good chunk of all of Hope's films would follow , some times it worked and sometime it didn't . Here the formula mostly works . The film is funny in ways that are stupidly punny and very clever . In many ways its the height of Hope's on Screen madness . However things aren't perfect . Part of the problem for me is that seeing this film again for the umteenth time I realized that the formula had been used so many times that this " original " has gotten lost in the crowd . This isn't a bad thing since the original is so good , it just means that we can't see this as clever as many people see it . Still it worth seeing , especially if you like Bob Hopes type of silliness .
Short Version : Dated recreation of the bombing of Pearl Harbor is best viewed in context of its time	I saw the short , 34 minute , version of this film and I'm intrigued by the notion of what constitutes a documentary since so much of this film has been recreated . Essentially the story of what happened on that morning this is brief retelling of what happened , mixed with a rousing warning to the Japanese that the destruction they caused wasn't as fatal as they would have liked . I'm of mixed minds about the film . Certainly the recreation of the bombing is stunning and had I seen this film back in the 1940's I would have been floored by it since its often a great mix of almost believable Hollywood magic and real life footage . Its so good that its clear that later recreations of the attack like Tora Tora Tora and Pearl Harbor stole shots and sequences from it . Unfortunately these same films , freed of the shackles of having to be a propaganda puff piece , are more interesting to watch . We can get lost in the story and don't need to have our patriotism pumped up . Its not bad , its just more a curio that should be viewed in context of when it was made rather than as a piece of entertainment or a source of real information on the subject . Worth a look for those who want to see a snapshot of how the war was viewed during the war , or for those cine-files who want to see where later movies cribbed their shots .
Great cast lifts up a run of the mill western adventure	The first third if this film takes place at the close of the American Civil War as Wild Bill Hickock goes once more behind enemy lines to get information which will end the war quickly . He shot but saved by the framed picture of the sister of his friend Steve . After the war Steve has relocated to the West where he has a company that ships cattle . Unfortunately the cattle have begun to disappear and the people who go to look for them also go missing , something thats included two marshals . A third marshal is sent who just happens to be Steve's old friend Wild Bill . A good little western that benefits from great casting . Everyone in the cast gives it a just enough that you actually care about everyone and it doesn't seem to be yet another factory produced western . If there is any real flaw to the film its simply that it's much too easy to spot the villain , it maybe a spoiler to point out that the small cast doesn't leave many possibilities . No its not the best western ever made but it is a good way to pass an hour . A word of warning , Alpha Video is listing Mantan Moreland on the cover of the video release as one of the stars of the film ( the reason I picked the film up ) . To be certain he does appear in the film , but it is only in two brief scenes at a party that celebrates the close of the Civil War , maybe three or four minutes total ( He's listed last in the on screen credits ) . If you're getting it just for Moreland rent it or wait for TV since the brevity of his appearance alone does not warrant spending a great deal of money to see it . ( Though it is a very good program western and worth seeing on its own merits ) 6 . , 6 for IMDb purposes .
Good but should have been better . I'm very ambivalent about it	Cops and an insurance investigator try to stop a serial bomber who torments with riddles and has now set his sight on a college student . Odd story with style that lacks and real characters you can care about . Its not a bad movie , far from it but this could have and should have been a great film , all that would have been required would be to give us real people to hang out with instead we get cyphers and cut outs . It keeps you watching but it never fully engages you . I highly doubt that you'll remember ever seeing it after the end credits roll . Worth a shot on cable .
Despite not speaking the language I enjoyed this Bollywood attempt at a horror movie	I have to say at the outset that my impressions of this film are filtered through two limiting factors . First I saw this with out subtitles so other than the odd snatches of dialog in English I had no idea what was being said . Second I had never , until now , seen a Bollywood film from start to finish . The main plot , and there's a couple of side plots , has to do with a man and his wife who take a job as caretakers at a place called Dak Bangla . This is a big mansion house which the neighbors don't like much because weird things are going on there . Once there weird things start to happen to them . Before long they are visited by some female relatives and one of the girls boyfriends . In investigating the place the girl with her boyfriend find a large book which explains the history of the place and about the creation of a mummy . Eventually the mummy gets loose and the nastiness ensues . My reaction to this movie was , at first , " this is pretty good " . The horror elements are handled extremely well and had there been released in the US this probably could have made a bit of money with the horror crowd . Its very much like the low budget horror films of the 1970's and 1980's , with a few Euro-horror twists from the 1960's thrown in . The horror parts of the film I really liked . The problem is that this is a Bollywood production so there are some weird asides . Romance , comedy and music all come into play and they take away from the main thrust . I may seem like a cultural heathen , but while I was prepared for the " misplaced asides " I didn't think they would be this distracting . There is a disco dance number with a guy who looks like Elvis . Another number , with a seeming S & M overtone comes right after what looked to be a rape . " A song , now ? " , I thought . It boggled my mind . As I admitted earlier I know I lost a great deal by not speaking the language . All of the humor was gone , as was any real understanding of what was really going on . While this is a movie you can watch without knowing the language , you do lose all of the details as a result . I liked it , I didn't love it . I did enjoy it enough to know that were I able to get a subtitled or English dubbed version I would certainly try it again . My rating of is based upon the frustration of having to see it without the proper understanding of what I was seeing . If you don't have language or movie cultural problems do see this movie , since its a good old fashioned horror movie .
Good but unremarkable Wallace thriller	Another in the German Wallace cycle involving multiple murders and blackmail as the result of an execution that went wrong seven years earlier . Good but not great this film never really added up to much more than people moving around trying to figure out who the villain was and to stay far enough on his good side that they didn't end up dead . To be honest while it isn't a bad movie , its quite good , its very generic as these things go , blending so much into the mass of German Wallace films that I started to nod off towards the end . Its not the fault of the film entirely since I am under the weather , but at the same time I kind of allowed my self to drift because I sort of felt I knew where it was going . Worth a look on Late night TV or if you are in an undemanding mood .
Tina Fey is way better than the material	Tina Fey is a successful professional who has missed out on the baby wagon . All her friends have families and she has promotions . Desperate for a child she tries a sperm bank but it fails when she is told that she is infertile . In desperation she takes on a surrogate who turns her life upside down . Clearly Tina Fey is the smartest one in the room and she walks through this film seemingly on autopilot and above to everyone around her . What is she doing here ? She is somewhere beyond this film and it shows . Its cute and amusing but Fey's demeanor promises something on a different plane then the rest of the movie . I think the best way to explain it , or over explain it would be Cary Grant in a Three Stooges movie . I think Fey can do great things if she wants or can find material that matches her abilities . A good little film .
Great to look at swashbuckler filmed in Venice	Costumed actioner set in the city and benefiting from being filmed in and around the canals . the plot has to do with intrigue concerning the titled character and the inquisition . Its a costumed swashbuckler of the sort they don't make any more and rarely did they ever look this good or have such a great sense of place . Its a shame that a good letterboxed version of this film doesn't seem to be out there since the pan and scan version I saw often had confrontations with invisible men ( speaking characters have been chopped out of the frame ) . the cast headed , by Lex Barker and Guy Madison , is quite good , even when dubbed into English . Its a nice movie for a rainy afternoon , when you want to just sit and watch some adventures from a bygone time .
Self Portrait of Werner Herzog is best seen by those who already know something of the man and his life	Odd rambling self portrait by Werner Herzog on himself . Mixing brief biographical information with clips from his movies this is more a sketch than a real portrait , and even then its incomplete since he only touches a handful of films and never really gives full biographical details . The problem here is much of this film can be found in other films in other forms , the clips certainly can be seen in other films , but even a chunk of the biographical info can be found in other documentaries about the man ( I Am My Films , My Best Friend , Burden of Dreams ) . The result is a film that is mostly going to be a loss to anyone coming to Herzog and his films with out some form of prior knowledge since the material doesn't have much context . That said anyone who is a fan and who loves his movies are going to be nicely diverted for its brief running time as we get a few bits of information concerning his life and learn of at least one unrealized project , a mountain film that was to be made with Klaus Kinski . Worth a look for fans , but anyone not knowing of Werner Herzog and his back catalog should stay away or risk being lost or worse bored .
Why didn't Alan Hale Sr get more leads in sound films ?	Alan Hale ( Father of the Skipper on Gilligan Island ) stars as a Captain of a ship during WW1 . When a sub sinks a passenger liner near him he pauses in his pursuit of the sub to check for survivors . A Naval board of inquiry finds he disobeyed orders and removes him from service . Years later as Captain of his own ship he is hired to recover a safe from the hold of the ship that was sunk and to allow the captain of the sub to be the man who dives . From there we have other complications involving a will , weaselly lawyers , fist fights and other nonsense . A very good very early sound film that makes one wonder why Hale never got more leading roles . A breezy and fast paced 62 minutes this movie is the sort of thing that Hollywood rarely made , especially after the production code was enforced ( bare shoulders on a women , hints of lesbianism were among the no no's ) . I really liked this movie a great deal . Let me be honest its a not a great film , but it was perfect for a very cloudy Sunday afternoon when I was feeling under the weather . It was the perfect distraction from the world and my woes .
Interesting film that goes more wrong the longer it runs	This satire on the American persona starts off as a biting attack on the jingoistic way we Americans force ourselves on others onto and treat other people at home , and mostly abroad . Mr Freedom , a boneheaded superhero is sent to rid France of communist infiltration . As he attempts to swing France back into American influence he battles his Soviet counterpart and the evil Red China Man . After the first half hour , during which most of the points are made , this film circles around itself in total confusion before collapsing into total incomprehensibility . It looks like someone took huge chunks out of this film . I've seen some people listing the this film as having a full running time of 115 minutes . If thats the case see that version and not the 95 minute English one since it probably makes more sense . Frankly this is a major disappointment since the film would seem to have become timely again with what is going on in the Iraq . Instead its a major misfire that is rightly not well known in America . for curiosity and for some truly wonderful moments , mostly in the first half . See it if you like misfires or want to see how the world has come full cycle , just prepare to be confused regarding the plot .
Surprising and surprisingly good	Cuba Gooding Jr and Helen Mirren are hit men lovers who fail to kill a pregnant woman and so take it on the lamb . Good but unremarkable noirish tale isn't worth much beyond being a time killer . Its clear why Mirren took the role which contrasts with her recent award winning ones . What works in the film is that it kind of confounds expectations . Things don't go as planned and the actors are seemingly playing against type . Who ever thought of pairing Cuba Gooding with Mirren should be rewarded since it keeps things interesting from the get go . While I certain think ts worth seeing , I'd wait to run across it on cable
Good story of a woman trapped in the London underground after closing is done in by gaps in logic	This is the story of a girl who ends up trapped in a London subway station after hours , and who , as a result ends up coming face to face with a " creep " living in the tunnels and disused subway stations . I had read about this film awhile back and heard that it was pretty good . I stumbled upon it at a local video store and gave it a try . I was both pleasantly surprised and very disappointed . SPOILERS AHEAD . I was pleasantly surprised because this is a well made , good looking thriller . In away its a form of the mad slasher lurking in the woods by the summer camp films , but it has a greater degree of skill behind the scenes . There is also hints of a great deal more going on than just an inbred psycho running amok . I also liked that the film has some really horrifying scenes , such as the Creep performing an operation ( he performs all of the stereotypical actions we've seen in movies , but not with the same results . ) I also loved that there are some characters you really care about . The people , for the most part , are not just fodder for the killing machine . I'm disappointed in the film because there are HUGE gaps of logic that work against believing the film . SPOILER WARNING : A mystery train shows up at one point , which I can accept , but not with a dead driver ; a security man is killed in his office , how could he not be missed ? ; blood trails and bodies are left all about , how could anyone not notice ? Actually thats the real problem , how could this guy behave like this and not be noticed earlier ? London after all has a reasonably well monitored subway and I can't believe the madness in the stations wouldn't have been witnessed on the screens somewhere . Clearly what happens during the film would not be his normal behavior . END SPOILERS . In watching the extras on the DVD it became clear to me that the writer / director isn't a very good writer . Certainly he can direct a chilling film , but I have to question his ability to write one . Listening to his comments , it seemed to me that he can put sequences together that work onto themselves , but that don't work in the narrative whole . This film is flawed because there story doesn't really flow from piece to piece . Still you can't take away from the fact there this does raise goosebumps a couple of times because it is so well made . Ultimately this is a good film , but not a great one . The more forgiving you are the better it is . If you like horror films I'd give it a shot , but as with many of these things your mileage may vary .
Good but it tries to do too much with too many for too short a running time	Film about the aftermath of a shooting in a diner on the lives of the survivors , including the doctor who treats some of them and who just missed being part of the tragedy . Good multi-character story doesn't quite soar like the titled characters . There are too many characters for its brief running time ( Man feeling lucky as a result decides to go on a gambling spree , the gambler's daughter , a waitress with a small baby , a doctor , two kids who bond but have their own problems , and the people around them ) which means that some of them feel more rounded than others . Forrest Whitaker as the gambler seems to come off best , certainly he's the most likable . Kate Beckinsale is very good in what seems like a bland role as the waitress . It takes a great deal of effort in order to be that run of the mill and real . On a personal level I wasn't really thrilled with the tone of the film . I know this is a contemplative film but to me every moment seems to be dripping with deep meaning and almost lost in thought . Its not bad as such but the film seems to be screaming " Look at me ! I'm deep and Meaningful ! " as if its afraid to let the film's characters and situations speak for themselves . Worth a look , just don't expect the next " Crash " which this film seems to be trying to be .
Worth a look if you run across it	Rob Lowe stars in the story of a decent guy who gets mixed up with some spoiled rich kids who decide to mess with him because they can ( They are rich with parents who are connected to keep them out of trouble and too young to have serious consequences . ) As Lowe's life spirals out of control and things fall apart he decides to take things in to his own hands . Good but unremarkable thriller is still worth a look because the villain is deliciously evil and because the rest of the cast manages to sell a plot that stays a little too close to the well worn path . I wouldn't pay any more than a rental for it ( This was a TV movie and not a big screen production so its not big and spectacular ) , but if you do run across it you could do worse
unremarkable tale with some good action scenes	I picked this up in Chinatown as an import with no subtitles because the box art looked cool . I didn't know its out here on DVD in two weeks . Then again what I paid for it is better than the 27 buck list price . Okay , managa / anime sourced film about a tough young girl in New York returned to Japan when they find out she's been there illegally . Dumped on the streets she's given a chance to help " the Police " find out who's behind a plot to blow up kids in a school and possibly blow up the city as well . She's given a school girl uniform and a killer yo-yo with which to protect herself . ( or something to that effect ) Made by the director of the second Battle Royal this is an improvement over that film , while at the same time borrowing some of the angst and visual flourishes of that film . This is a good little movie that movies along even when you don't understand most of whats being said . The action is good , its mostly martial arts until the final confrontation , and several of the fights are better than many of the fights in recent American action films . There are a couple of problems for me . Allowing that I'm watching this in a language not my own the plotting of the villain makes little sense . There's something about the plan that suddenly peters out about an hour in . As I said I couldn't really understand what was being said but there was this sudden WTF moment when I suddenly had the feeling I missed about 10 minutes . ( I hope this will be cleared up when I see this in English dub or sub ) . The other problem is that the yo-yo of the title doesn't really show up until the last half hour . Sure there are a few tentative uses , but mostly its seen just in the final battle with the female baddie . It also doesn't help that the battle is also a tad anti-climatic after all thats gone before . ( I won't go into the fact that the battlefield changes a couple of times to work against our heroine - like when a bad magically appears for her to trip over ) Definitely watchable-assuming they don't blow any English dub ( The wrong dub will kill this so go for subs ) - just opt for rental or cable .
Great cast , including a potential Oscar winning performance from Ben Affleck , shine in a story thats only half worth telling	Okay the answer to the Ben Affleck question is yes , he's on the fast track to another Oscar . Simply put he is that good , so good that this may end up his signature role which may forever be associated . As for the rest of the movie , yea well thats another story . This is the story of George Reeves . Beginning just after his " suicide " the movie follows private detective Adrian Brody , hired by Reeves mother , as he tries to uncover whether Reeves suicide was that or murder , a possibility owing to many unanswered questions and odd loose ends . At the same time we travel back in time to when Reeves career is stalled and he become involved with the wife of studio honcho , a move he thought would set him on the road to easy street but actually hobbled his career further . This is an odd film , and to be honest I'm going to have to sit and watch it again . Its not that the film is bad , its not really , its just that it seems like they've grafted an okay noir thriller on to a great Hollywood portrait and its a bumpy mix . The Brody stuff is just okay . Its your typical story of a desperate for money detective getting in way over his head until the case takes over his life and leaves him wondering which way is up . The best stuff , the stuff that you'll remember and that should have been the entire movie , is the Reeves stuff . Affleck has the role of life time playing a man who's role of a lifetime destroyed him . Its a wonderful , yet heartbreaking story . I wanted to spend more time with him and less with the seedy Brody . I understand that the film makers had things they wanted to use Brody to get across , however its just not interesting enough to make you care . This is a movie you'll probably want to see on DVD or cable instead of shelling out 10 bucks in the theater , its not bad , but its only really half interesting .
What I say doesn't matter	I'm not a fan of the books . The ones I read seem like Roald Dahl wannabes . To me the books were young adult fiction that seems like young adult fiction . This the , film version of the first book is actually pretty good , but suffers painfully from the fact that it attempts to get everything in the book on the screen . I am certain that the film would have been a classic had someone had the balls to reshape the novel into a movie instead of trying to make the movie into the novel . If you want to see a good , but not great movie , and to get a faithful feeling for one of the most successful series of books ever made without having to days reading the books then by all means watch this , just expect frequent draggy spots .
And ?	I don't know if I was bored by this film because it isn't very good or because the images were stolen by later films . This film reminds me of other films like Forbidden Zone , Begotten and Lynch's own Eraserhead , all of which play better than this story of a boy who grows a Grandmother . How do you really critique the film ? I've seen it before isn't fair especially when this might be the source of what I saw before . It would be like disliking Citizen Kane because it isn't revolutionary in modern eyes . Try it . It can't hurt . The only thing you really have to lose is 34 minutes of your life , certainly seeing this is better than watching yet another Seinfeld episode .
Repeated and questionable visuals make the stories told hard to believe	I've seen dozens of UFO documentaries and this one is decidedly middle of the pack . Set up as an interview with Dan Aykroyd about UFO's this is often wanders off from Dan to other people such as Gordon Cooper who also tell their stories about UFO's . The spoken material presented is for the most part pretty good and interesting , and had this been an audio presentation this would have rated higher , however the visuals and how they are arranged are something else entirely . First off Aykroyd looks uncomfortable , on some level it seems as though he doesn't want to be there and the result is its not fun to watch . Secondly the filmmakers use the same footage over and over and over again under the comments made by the various talking heads . By the time ten minutes have passed we've seen several shots five or six times , give me the person speaking not the same Mexican sightings . Worst of all the film the film repeatedly uses some of the footage of Billy Meier's UFO sightings . It is spectacular stuff but since most people seem to feel that Meier was hoaxing all his pictures and videos its inclusion makes it hard to take the rest of the material seriously . Visuals aside there are some nifty tales told and if you can listen to this video rather than watch it its a rather intriguing way to play a mind stretching what if game .
While I'm still doubtful of much of the 911 conspiracy plot this film does raise raise some intriguing questions about the use of terror to control a population	Film by Alex Jones who runs the Prison Planet website about the use of terror to control the population . It particularly looks at the London subway bombings and of course 911 . Intriguing up to a point ( and once you get past the history lesson that starts the film ) this film raises a good number of questions about the London bombing and its timing prior to the start of the Iraq war . While they spin out a good number of questions they do what a good number of these documentaries do , they don't follow up , something they accuse the media of doing to hide the truth . A case in point is survivor who said the bomb was not in the train car but under the car . They show the news story concerning the allegation but make no mention if they ever tried to contact the survivor . After London they follow the story back to 911 and the twin towers . As always we get lots of stories , and pieces of evidence but no one ever has anything solid . Its just more of the same . Yes there are questions , no you haven ; ' t even answered them . Its an okay movie but I once again get the feeling that no one really wants to do the leg work on this . Worth a look if the mood hits you but as with all of these films take it with a grain of salt .
Standard revenge tale enlivened by a great cast	A pilots pregnant wife is killed by a band of thugs who break into their home . The gang is caught and sent off to prison . Wanting to see that " justice " is done the pilot stages his own death and then gets himself arrested so he can hunt the killers in the prisons into which they have been sent . To be honest the story is a bit clichéd with the plot taking some obvious paths once things are set in motion . Normally that would be a bad thing but here the film works largely thanks to a very good cast of mostly unknown actors . The stand out is Andy Serkis , best known for playing Gollum in the Lord of the Rings movies . Here he's the head of the nasty band and his vileness seems to drip off the screen . If you want to know why Peter Jackson chose him to play the tortured creature in the big budgeted epic look no further . Serkis isn't on screen much until the final portion of the film , but his evilness in the early part of the film hangs over everything like a dark cloud . Definitely worth a look for those who want an undemanding thriller , and those who want to see what Andy Serkis is capable of when he isn't doing just a computer generated character . 6 . .
More western then Zorro this is too mechanical to be great	Hero returns from the Civil War and finds his home county over run by crooked politicians who are taxing everyone out of existence . Run of the mill western is pretty good but what is Zorro doing in all of this ? Clearly it was time to crank out the old cliffhangers and use them again . Give Republic points for turning out well done action chapter plays but take a few simply because we've seen it all before , in the B westerns they and other studios were producing . It suffers from being too much the run of the western serial mill . However if you haven't seen many serials or B-Westerns , this is a good little time killer . simply because its so by the numbers
Good but unremarkable crime tale	French remake of a 1914 serial involving a " crime fighter " who uses masks and deception to right wrongs and such . Similar in someways to a more real batman . This remake has Judex-the Latin for judge - going after a banker who swindled people by telling him that if he didn't repay the money he would die . And die he does-or so it appears as Judex spirits the man away and hold him prisoner . From there it gets complicated . Good but unremarkable as a whole mystery / adventure story set in the late 1800's thats perfect for late night viewing since its the sort of thing I used to run across at 2am . Worth a look if you run across it but I don't know if I'd go out of my way to see it .
One of the better death ray knocks planes out of the sky films	Refusing to marry the count that her uncle has found for her a young lady flees her wedding and is pursued by her uncle and fiancé . Making her way to the airport she climbs in to a mail plane unaware that its a decoy for bunch of bandits who are using some unknown means to crash the planes so they can steal the mail . Good variation on what has to be some sort of sub-genre of the 1930's namely the " electronic device that crashes planes genre " I think this is the fourth or fifth one that I've run across and they are all basically the same , with some differences . I think I've liked most of these films for one reason or another . This one works because of the witty repartee and the fact that its more than just flying planes over the spot so the villains can crash them . Actually there really is only the one crash and the film spins out from there . The film is also unique in that where many films have singers in the night clubs where they are set this one has comedians , which is something I've not seen before . Worth a look if you come across it .
Creaky Beyond Words	A prisoner named the Phantom is moments away from going to the chair when he climbs over the wall , jumps on top of a passing train and makes a get away when a plane flies down and picks him up . He then threatens the DA , even though he's not the DA who sent him up the river . . . and then things get complicated . This is a movie from the early days of sound . Using silent footage with sound effects it broadens what could be done at reasonable expense with the then bulky sound equipment . As a result this film does things that many similar movies from the period couldn't , it goes outside the drawing room , the best example is the jail break at the beginning . But while it goes places that other films didn't , and it has more twists than a pretzel factory , this film suffers from the same problem that countless other lower budget films did , and that is its limited by sound itself . There is no music and many scenes are staged simply to have people talk , a sequence at the beginning in the newspaper editor's office for example , goes on way too long just so we can hear the characters talking on the phone . The movie itself is interesting up to a point , but at times it seems to want to get as many of the mystery conventions into the movie as possible so things keep spinning out for no real reason other than to make the film reach a reasonable length . The problem is that as interesting as the plot is , the film's age hinders full enjoyment of it . If you're in the mood for an antique give it a try , otherwise steer clear .
Visual promise is let down by a " by the numbers " film noir plot	Researcher for the Avalon mega-corporation has gone missing and a police investigator is called into find out what happened and why . It quickly transpires that the researcher was on the trail of immortality and what she knows could be worth a great deal of money in the right hands . Animated using some of the best motion capture I've ever seen this is a film of 98 % stark black and white . Grey exists only in a window reflection and they're are two blips of color . Think Frank Miller's Sin City only harsher . The whites hurt the eyes especially when viewed on a really good TV . Its an intriguing experiment that will either thrill you or annoy the hell out of you . I'm somewhere in the middle , finding I love the individual shots or sequences , but also being bothered by the effects of the color ( less ) choice on my eyes - things just look odd . What do I mean odd ? weird shading of faces and places . There are also so some odd effects produced as people move in and out of light and dark . I know the frames would look okay but in motion its a bit strange ( often brick walls ) . The plot isn't all that great , its a bit circular for no real reason , with moment about an hour in where suddenly you know whats going on and how its all going to come out simply because its " film noir lite " with more than a tad predictability to character and situations . Granted if you haven't seen many film noirs you may not see the final twists coming so you may like it more than I did . ( Also it didn't help that I saw the film of James Ellroy's Black Dahlia the night before . Ellroy was an inspiration to the filmmakers and its clear that they stole more than a riff or two from the master . ) The movie as a whole isn't bad . Its a good but unremarkable thriller that has a plot that doesn't live up to its unique visual style . It does have some incredible visuals of a Paris of the future not to mention a couple a marvelous action set pieces ( the car / foot chase through the streets comes to mind ) that would be the envy of any film animated or live action . Its worth seeing , just keep in mind that its visual promise is mot kept by its run of the mill story .
Twisted Hong Kong Horror	Unemployed man who's wife is expecting takes a job as a security guard in what turns out to be a haunted building . Warned that he is susceptible to the ghostly goings on he takes precautions to keep himself safe until weird things begin happening around his wife . Dark Twisted Hong Kong Horror film is one of the dark films that arrived in the late 70's and early 80's and broke all the rules in both China and the West . There is a great deal unpleasant about the film , and I mean that in a good way . The ending in particular had my jaw hanging open . There is a reason that cinephiles minds were blown by the strange things coming out of the East , they are in your face and in your gut . Worth a look for horror fans . Between 6 and
You'll either love it or hate it	Love it or loath it tale of a young girl in Yentown who's mother dies and she is taken in by a collection of oddball characters . Polyglot film is a mix of languages and styles with a drive to be about something . It didn't work for me and after about a quarter of its two and a half hour running time I had to give up , not because it was bad , rather because it just wasn't working for me . Its too hip and happening . Usually I like Shunji Iwai , the directors work . His Arita in Jam Films is wonderful , and Hana and Alice ( or what I've seen of it ) seems to be very nice . I wish I could tell you more about the film but its one of those films that just didn't seem ever to come together . . . That said worth a look since some people I've read love the film .
Good , but far from great martial arts film is throw back to films of the 1980's	In 1935 LA four " problem solvers " are hired by a woman to kill her sister in China and given 100 grand each to do it . Complications arise when one of them falls in love with the woman . Good throw back to a 1980's American martial arts film that manages to keep you interested thanks to some good performances , good action and a number of twists and turns that keep it out of the typical by the numbers rut . Of course you know that there is more to the plot than meets the eye , some of which results in twists you may not see coming . ( and some of which you can ) . Its the sort of thing that would have played on 42nd street 25 years ago and pleased its inhabitants . I really liked the film and had I not been watching this at midnight would have wandered off to the Kitchen to get some popcorn and a large soda . Is it the be all and end all , no . It is however a really solid action exploitation film that you can put on and let wash over you with out worrying that your brain has been eaten . 6 .
mindless fun	Caught this on one of the multitudinous HBO channels . When a bad American played by Dwight Yokum forcibly takes control of various property in early 20th century Mexico for the building of a railway , Penelope Cruz and Selma Hayek band together and begin robbing banks to get the money to fight the bad guy . Its a bit more complicated than that but its enough to give you an idea as to what the premise is . Its an amusing romp written in part by Luc Besson ( which explains the smart ass tone ) thats never too serious and never too far from some action sequence . I liked this movie a great deal since its perfectly mindless and the sort of thing you could wander in and out of and still be able to follow . If there are any serious flaws its that more than once there seems to have been some scenes or some minor exposition . removed since more than once I had the feeling that I missed something as characters moved from place to place . Wonderfully acted by the two leads , not to mention Yokum , Steve Zahn and a very funny Sam Sheppard ( as a bank robber entrusted to train the pair of bandidas in his trade ) Far from the best movie ever made it is amusing , and perfect cable fare where all its flaws will be more easily forgiven . Worth a look for action fans and those who like light humorous movies .
Weird , unpleasant and needing a second viewing	Weird unpleasant and unnerving murder mystery that I still haven't completely unraveled . It begins with two men hitting a pedestrian , stealing the money he was carrying and getting mixed up with a kidnapping . Meanwhile a young detective with two kids investigates a murder that seems to be related . Thats a poor attempt at explaining this odd film , honestly there is no way to simply explain this with out giving too much away . Think Silence of the Lambs meets Seven meets something similar . Its a weird frigging movie requires you to pay attention and deal with often heavy weirdness . Worth a look if you like very strange unsettling films . I'm not sure what I think of it completely or that I got everything after one late night viewing . I'm going to have to try it again when I'm much less tired . ( A word of warning its got some scenes of heavy sexuality , including hardcore graphic sex in at least one scene on a TV screen , so keep the kids away . )
As a look at men in modern battle this is very good . As a depiction of the actual event its fair	Prompted by listening to the book on CD going to and from work I finally sat down and watched Ridley Scott's film of the day everything went wrong in Mogadishu Somalia . The plan was to go in , secure a building where some of a wanted warlord's men were meeting and then get out . From the minute the soldiers started to lad things went wrong when one soldier falls from a helicopter . Complicating matters even more is the fact that the Somali's know how to take out the helicopters and soon one of the Blackhawks goes down . This is followed by a second helicopter . With men and machines scattered all over the city it becomes a desperate race to get the soldiers out before they are cut to ribbons by what seems like every person in the city . I'm of mixed emotions about the film . Certainly as a representation of urban guerrilla war this is a kick in the pants . You are there in the thick of chaos as choppers go down and everyman is fighting desperately for cover . As a war film the film is amazing and its frightening since where do you hide when everyone it seems is out to get you ? The problem for me is that the film is often not very clear . The battle is not in context of history . Granted that this is not always needed or desired , and I understand the " why " of it all isn't the point of the film , but without it the battle just seems to be a bunch of guys going in to a place they don't belong and getting in over their head . While that is certainly part of the story its also not entirely true . I think the problem is that the opening bits of the film which gives the film its place and time while explaining what things are like in Somalia promises more background then we get and perhaps it would have been a better film if we had just skipped all of that and just went into battle . We also get lost as to who is who . Even with the modification of names on helmets I found it tough to tell who was who and which story thread I was following . Yes the casting of Eric Bana ( who is excellent and actually gives a real performance ) , Josh Harnett , Tom Sizemore , Ewan McGregor and a few others help to make things easier to follow but for the most part much of the film was people in uniform shooting at people out of uniform . Okay yes , I had just heard the book which neatly lays everything out , but at the same time knowing what I know , I was still confused ( and not because what I knew conflicted by what I saw ) . To be honest once I divorced the film from any sort of depiction of actual events and took it to be just a story of men under fire I quite enjoyed it . Is it the be all and end all ? No . its a good story told in an action packed manner . Worth a shot Personally I'd like to see another version of the story which manages to tell the larger story as well since there are too many stories that weren't covered or left hanging . .
Good adventure tale has too many songs and is a bit too meandering to really score , however as a late night time killer its worth a shot	Okay adventure film and set up for a series that never happened concerning the exploits of Wallaby Jim and his crew of sailors in the south seas . The story concerns Jim delaying filing his claim for a pearl rich island in order to bring the girl of the man keeping an eye on the island to see him . Trouble follows as Jim finds his man has gambled away his money and has also allowed a band of bad guys to stay on the island . Can Jim get rid of the bad guys , save the islanders and not end up hitched to the pretty island girl with the hots for him ? Of course he can . This is a good little film that suffers from too many songs , there are four . ( you haven't lived until you've seen the first song and the films one production number badly lip synced . I don't even think these guys were trying ) and a meandering attitude . This is a film that takes its time going where its going only to have to race to a conclusion in the final ten minutes . Its as if they didn't know what they wanted to do until they were almost out of time . The result is a good but not great little film . Its the sort of thing thats perfect for sitting curled up on the couch while a snow storm rages outside ( which is what I did ) . To be honest its good enough to make you wish that they had tried to go somewhere with it in another film .
Badly paced Gothic horror story squanders great cast by only allowing an occasional chill	I'm not sure how much I should tell you about this Gothic swamp horror tale . The story is nominally the tale of Kate Hudson who goes to care for a dying man deep in the swamps near new Orleans . Once there she encounters some very strange things going on in and around the house . The cast is first rate with Kate Hudson making a fetching heroine . Gena Rowlands is very creepy as the elderly lady who's husband , John Hurt , is dying . Hurt has almost no dialog and his entire performance is a masterpiece of physical acting . I'd like to think Hurt would get an Oscar nom for his performance but some how I doubt that anyone will remember this come Oscar time . Unfortunately for the cast there are two problems with this movie . First the whole thing looks too good for the Gothic , deep swamp horror movie this is . Sure you want to hang every frame on the wall , but it doesn't properly build suspense . The other , more serious problem is that the pace is way off . Yes , what happens is scary and creepy , but not in the way its filmed here . It takes too long to get through some scenes , others blow by too quickly . There is a tendency for the camera to linger on objects . While on one level this builds the sense of dread , it slows things down on almost every other one . I wanted to scream get on with it . SPOILERS AHEAD Still there are some chills , mostly in the final fifteen minutes when all is revealed and the film takes a few creepy turns . The problem is that its almost too little too late , especially if you've worked out what the final twist or two are twenty minutes into the film . Even suspecting what was going on I think this movie should have worked . The basic story is sound and should scare the crap out of you , but it doesn't . I blame that on the director and writer since as the credits rolled I was left with the feeling that this was a great story , only fairly told . END SPOILER I can't really recommend this , at least for ten bucks a head in a theater . Its an okay film that really should have been better . Wait for DVD or cable .
Forget the plot ( the filmmakers did ) this is worth seeing for the action and monster sequences	Survivors of the virus that has ravaged the world , turning the dead into zombies and the world into a vast wasteland , have learned to keep moving least the zombies find them . Milla Jovovich returns as Alice , zombie killer number one . After some lone wanderings in the Desert she hooks up with a band of travelers and looks to stop the evil Umbrella corporation once and for all . Not as good as the last film but better than the first one . I don't think that the film's plot makes a whole heck of a lot of sense , which is fine since the numerous action set pieces are so tightly wound you can pretty much forgive the poor plotting . I mean the last time I checked people tended to watch these films for the blood , the gore and the monster killing . Upping the ante with some killer crows and some beast which shall remain nameless this film just moves like the wind with in each extended action sequence ( Forget Hitchcock's birds these things are lethal ) . Each scene of violence left me exhausted and willing to deal with the non exposition of the main plot ( okay its stupid I admit it ) . Worth a look for horror and action fans , though I'm not sure its really worth 10 bucks to see it .
A numbers king pin tries to stay in business as the mafia and police close in around him . Its a below poverty production that is decent but deserving of a bigger budget	This is a low budget , made on the cheap film that does possess some charm . The problem is that it meanders all over the place and never picks up any real steam . The plot begins with a sit down between Pasha and his Italian gangster counter part Big Tony ( played by the top billed Frank DeKova aka Chief Wild Eagle from F-Troop in the first of his two scenes ) . Tony tells Pasha he has to hand everything over to him and his boys or they will kill him . Pasha's girl kills Tony's man , which you would think woulds spark a gang war , it doesn't , instead it spurs the Mayor to try and close Pasha down . This leads to the numbers operation being moved , police raids and some talk about fighting back . The Italian mob does try to kill Pasha but it never amounts to much . This is a black-ploitation crime drama that is short on action . The problem seems to be that they had almost no money to make this movie . its suppose to be set in 1956 but people wear clothes from the 1970's and the streets are filled with cars made well after 56 . I'm guessing that they couldn't afford any money for blanks , or if they did they didn't have very many . What violence there is tends to be fist fights or beatings , which can be very bloody . Its disappointing especially after the opening scene . I had the sense while watching it that this was suppose to be a larger , more detailed story ( there are details hanging off the screen that seem to connect to a longer story ) and it wasn't filmed because of money or the film was unfinished . Its a messy movie but I liked it . The writing is at times sharp and witty , even if the cast isn't up to it . There are numerous lines of dialog that deserve to be quoted . You have a bunch of interesting characters that seem very real . I also liked that the plot never went where you expected it to go , even though it became clear early this was headed for left field by a completely new route . Its best described as a low budget attempt at something other than your typical crime drama ( black or white ) . No it won't win any awards but if you're an adventurous film goer it deserves to be seen , if for no other reason than to imagine it remade by Mario Van Peebles , Quentin Tarantino or the Hughes Brothers . You probably won't rave , but it will stick in your head .
Good and pretty much unknown adventure yarn	Conrad Veidt plays Gil De Berault , a duelist and rogue who occasionally helps Cardinal Richelieu ( Raymond Massey ) . Needing to have an opponent to the crown found and killed , Richelieu sends De Berault on a mission . However De Berault finds romance with his enemies sister and must find away to keep everyone , especially himself , alive . Veidt makes an odd swashbuckling hero . To be honest he may have been a bit too long in the tooth , but he still manages to give a good performance as man who knows his way around a sticky situation . His witty delivery and occasional bits of daring do make up for any short comings his age may have inferred . While far from perfect it is the sort of thing thats perfect at 1am when you can't sleep , though odds are you'll be like me and end up really past your bad time waiting for the no always certain conclusion .
Good early serial is an odd mix of locations and situations . Interesting for no other reason then Boris Karloff is a villain	Robert Grant is an American in the east who bears an uncanny resemblance to a Raja . When the Raja is killed by a tiger he was hunting Grant is forced to take his place so that the Raja's cousin won't seize the throne before the rightful heir can ascend . Unfortunately for Grant his friend Harris sells him out to the evil cousin because Grant refused to hold onto the throne and rape the country of all its wealth . What follows is a long chase as Grant tries to prove his innocence while disguised as an Arab ( he's jailed for murder but escapes ) and help the only one who knows who he really is find her brother who is being held captive until he relays the location of a diamond mine . Its a complex story that has more chapter breaks then cliffhangers . Shot partially silent this is a good looking serial that is an odd mix of locations that are nowhere near each other ( Africa , India , the desert . . . ) . Despite not having a music score the film moves along reasonably well , even if the plot does tend to fold back on itself . The cast is pretty good with Boris Karloff one of the baddies looking for the diamond mine . Not the best , nor the worst but worth a look if you're in a forgiving mode , besides where else can you see an ape-man as a henchmen ? It should be pointed out that the serial is what many would call racially insensitive . The portrayal of Arabs is mostly as villains and the black natives is of savages with bones through their noses . If you are offended by such portrayals , which were very much of the time this was made , look elsewhere .
In desperate need of a directors cut to clarify things	Troubled science fiction dystopia tale shows signs of the greatness that once attracted the cast and crew to it but also shows signs of being tinkered with the the edge of utter failure . As it stands now ( in the US version ) its an okay tale in need of further explanations and clarifications . Vin Diesel is a soldier of fortune who is hired by a Russian money man and fixer to take a young woman ( and her surrogate mother played by Michelle Yoeh ) from a monastery in one of the Russian Republics to New York in 6 days . Much of the world is in chaos and the borders are well protected and getting through the check points isn't easy . Complicating matters is a squad of men shadowing the trio who are looking to take custody of the young woman for themselves . Despite what you may have heard this film is not a complete mess . In some ways it is , but there is a core that works . Nor is it a rehash of Children of Men . ( but the comparison is partly possible but not justified ) . The US version runs some 15 minutes shorter than the International one and frankly its clear they left something out somewhere . After a really good set up ( the scene where the armed men , whom Diesel knows , break into his home is great ) the film becomes lost in reasoning . Yes I can follow whats happening , but why are we in these places ? I don't know nothing is explained as its happening , only in retrospect does any of it make sense . We see diesel lay out his trip on a map but it doesn't mean anything since we're not from the future world . Equally unexplained is the reasons behind what we're seeing . Ideally we should be like Diesel and not know anything , but we see little flashes to a religious order that implies much more than we are ever told while traveling to New York . Once we get to New York things are explained , but again I got a sense of studio tempering as we are told things that don't mean anything since we don't have a enough facts about this world for it to make sense ; in other words they don't explain the religious order that the girl belongs to until the end . The problems with the film is not that what they are telling us is silly , its that they are just not telling us anything at all . To be honest I'm reasonably certain that somewhere in the original script this all made sense , but either they didn't film or more likely they cut the life out of the film and turned it into what it is . ( Why do I think this was cut up by someone who was too close to the material and who knew what the film was suppose to be and then cut it down on the assumption that what he knew from seeing the full film would work in the shorter version ) I suspect that the film could be a really good film in a longer more coherent form . I'm hoping that when this hits DVD in the US we at the very least get the longer International cut . I would love to think that they'll let the film be re-cut to the way it should have been , but I'm not going to hold my breath . As it stands now , assuming you can forgive its numerous flaws , its a good ( barely ) little science fiction actioner that has signs and scenes of greatness . Worth a look on DVD or cable . I don't think a trip to the theater is in order . And yes , I will pick up the DVD if they give us a directors cut .
Cute but forgettable	The life of a group of kids and their parents as they try to survive the rigors of school and child rearing . Its a cute movie that doesn't completely translate to these western eyes . I don't understand the school system , though I do understand the conflicts between kids and parents as well the craziness of everyday life . Its an okay film thats a bit run of the mill ( though considering that this is from the infant Singapore film industry-its a " local " - its understandable ) . Is it worth seeing ? If you run a cross it you might want to give it a shot , but odds are you won't remember it .
weird	Weird Japanese horror , monster movie about man who is infected by a demon that is snatched away when the demon comes out by a former carrier who likes to eat the beasties . Hard to describe film ( its not completely clear in some aspects ) is best described as a as what it is , a 1980's horror film with rubber monsters . The weird aspects of the film are what carry it along since its so odd you keep watching it even when the film kind of drags along . Its the sort of movie that you'll either click with or you won't . I liked the ideas , but ultimately it bored me .
Realistic account of the events in the big budget A Bridge Too Far is worth seeing simply because it shows the battle as it really was .	This is what we would now call a docudrama about the battle in and around Arnhem during the closing days of the Second World War . Mixing actual footage of the battle with new footage shot a year after the war in and around the ravaged city with many of the surviving soldiers playing themselves , this tells the same story that was told in the big Budget A Bridge Too Far . Its very much a you are there sort of film that pretty much seems to tell it like it was . I ran across this film in a budget collection of World War two films and since I'm a big fan of a Bridge Too Far I thought I'd pick it up . I'm not sure which is the better movie . One is a huge Hollywood financed production , the other is a small scale gritty in your face film that certainly shows what it must have been like . One I like because I like the story and the spectacle , the other I like because it shows what it was really like , and how Hollywood's version was too neat and clean . As good as this film is it has two problems in my eyes . First off its a bit disjointed . The film is telling the whole story about what happened in and around Arnhem and things get lost , " characters " blend into one another . Part of this seems to be the result of the fact that the film seems to have been dubbed after the fact and it seemed to me that several people have the same voice . Its not bad but I began to feel awash in the proceedings . The second problem with the film is that its awfully stereotypically " British " . Everyone is low key and even keeled . Everyone takes everything in stride , even the fact that they are surrounded with seemingly no way out . Its all greeted with a levelness that seems wildly out of the " ideal " notion of the British soldier rather than reality . The attitude is fine for a while , but buy the half way point into the film I was shaking my head and giggling at the calmness of it all . For me it severely detracted from the proceedings and left me feeling very disappointed . Flawed or not this is a must see , especially for those who like the later inflated epic film .
Well made decent into a violent world where there is no hope	A man raised in Cambodia to fight and die in gladiatorial like fights is brought to Hong Kong in order to kill someone . After the hit goes down he finds himself being chased by a police detective who is probably even more messed up than he is . As a technical achievement this film is a triumph . It looks great and has a style thats all it own . Its in your face style keeps you riveted and abused . In an almost real way you're there being beaten about . This is , in its way one of the best looking films to come out of Asia in 2006 . As an viewing experience this is a tough film to take . From the opening frames its clear that this is not going to be a happy story and its tale of revenge and escape becomes even harder to take . This is a bleak tale that has no hope anywhere in it . The action sequences are gritty and realistic with an edge that makes them more a slap in the face than spectacle of entertainment . People bleed and die horrible deaths . No good deed goes unpunished nor is any bad deed not made worse by circumstance . Its a trip into a world where there is no light . After awhile it becomes an endurance test to see who's going to expire first the audience or the people on the screen . As good as the film is , and it is good , it all becomes too much , especially when you kind of know how its going to come out . Worth a look for those who can deal with the violence and the utter despair . ( should probably be an but its just so bleak )
Lets put on a show is a wonderful record of Black Vaudeville , but not a particularly good movie	This movie is less a film than a collection of routines from the black vaudeville circuit . The results are decidedly mixed as a movie but as a record of the routines and acts it contains its a historical document ( then again many historical documents are not very entertaining ) The plot has Jackie " Moms " Mabley running a boarding house for various performers . When times get tight they put on a show to help Moms out . Its threadbare and simply the excuse to hang the various routines and songs on . The bits are certainly better than the whole and while I did enjoy said bits , I was left feeling rather empty at the end . Definitely worth a look or two if you love vaudeville , or the history of comedy . Actually its worth a look see if you want some laughs and aren't particularly picky about annoying things like plot . As they say its worth a bag of popcorn .
Recruiting the young to fight an adult war	Werner Herzog looks at the young soldiers who make up the Miskito Indian rebel army . The Indians are an abused minority who sided with the Sandinistas in the Nicaragua civil war . However once the Sandinistas won the Indians were once more an abuse minority and had to fight once more for their rights . The first part of the film deals with the war itself and how the adults are handling it . The second part of the film deals with the 10 , 11 and 12 year olds who are being recruited into the fight because there simply not enough men to carry on the fight . This is a film that is rather eerie with its reflections to the suicide bombers that have become part of life in some parts of the world . The problem is not new , with Herzog's co director telling the story about fighting in Berlin in the final weeks of the Second World War as a member of the Hitler Youth . The film is good but not great film with the film running much too long for what it is . While it does show us something most people were not aware of , its also rather static with much of the film made up by people in large groups sitting around looking into the camera while one person speaks . The result is a desire to reach for the remote ( a rare thing for any Herzog film ) . Worth a look if you stumble on it , but not something worth searching for . 6 .
Barely Feature Length	This is the fore runner of the many of the Disney TV shows of the 50's , 60's and 70's , mixing live action travel footage with cartoons that tie into the subject . It is also the first of the multi-short film that Disney would release as feature through the 1940's and early 1950's , but its one of the better ones since the pieces are all about on the same level . This , to me , is a better film than the Three Caballeros which followed it and which more people know about than this . There are really only only four shorts , Donald a tourist , Goofy as a gaucho , Pedro the mail plane , and a piece set to the song Brazil that introduces Joe Carioca . The real problem with this film is it just stops . Brazil ends and so does the movie . I know they say leave them wanting more but this is ridiculous . This is a renter . The DVD box says its 75 minutes , but only if you include the short documentary , which is almost as long as the movie itself . If you and your kids like it , then buy it , but its too little to be throwing 20 bucks away on .
Do not believe the hype this is not a Korean or supernatural Apocalypse Now	This is being sold as a Korean version of Apocalypse Now . Its not . Other than the plot device of investigating mysterious radio signals there is no similarities at all . Do not believe the hype . The plot concerns a group of soldiers sent to R-Point to investigate a group radio signals from a group of supposedly dead men . Once they cross the line into the area all sorts of strange things begin to happen and they slowly begin to dwindle in number . Yes , you've probably seen it before in other films , you know the drill a group of men cut off in a strange place where they are hunted by a seemingly supernatural force . Recent films such as the Bunker , or Deathwatch cover similar territory to varying degrees of success . For most of the running time R-Point works , as a good but not great thriller . There is a slowly building sense of dread as it goes on that thankfully never becomes overwhelming . It's not perfect as most of the men blend together and you really have no idea who is who . The real problem is that around an hour or so in the film starts to not make sense . Events become disjointed and there are some turns that seems out of left field . Granted this is a film that asks you to pay attention as little things early on show up later or give clues to whats going on , so if you look away you may feel lost . I did look away and did feel lost . I also have reservations about the reasons for events toward the end , they don't seem natural , I suspect this is due to the director attempting to add more weight to the story than a straight horror film could carry . I think the attempts at allegory weaken the film and prevent it from being either a horror film or allegory . Still I do recommend the film for those people who want to see something creepy but not too scary , and who don't mind it doesn't completely work to the end .
Nonsensical mystery of a hunchbacked killer on the loose works on in its own twisted sort of way	A reporter claims to have seen the face of " the Fiend " , a hunchbacked killer dressed in black that is terrorizing a city and a theater in particular by poisoning people by some unknown means . The Fiend naturally makes her his next target and she has to go on the run . Hooking up with a reporter she attempts to find out the killer and remain alive . Fast moving and making almost no real sense whats so ever this movie is as artificial a mystery as you can get . Its best described as taking a 1930's mystery and stripping it of anything other than the mystery mechanism ( Murderer is on the lose killing people ) while throwing in cliché characters , comic relief and making any revelation either a red herring or more likely a twist out of the left field of a ball park two cities over just to keep things going . In any real sense its a mess , however as a pure machine it works . As totally mindless mystery time killer it can entertain you . Its the type of thing where you can pretty much guess the killer the instant he appears , but you don't care and can't be sure because the film is making so many odd turns that nothing makes sense even though you're hoping it will . I don't know if you should search it out , but if you run across it an want to see as nonsensical and stripped down mystery as you can get its worth a shot . ( I just don't recommend this if you need things to make and real linear sort of sense )
I liked it	Three High school kids go to a college orientation weekend and fall in with a bad news frat and are forced to get revenge to save face and self esteem . Low brow college humor that made me laugh . That may not seem like much but lately thats been becoming a rarer event as the jokes in these sort of film get worse and worse and stupider and stupider . I highly doubt this film will ever win any awards but for the hour and a half or what ever the running time was I was laughing a lot more then most other recent comedies that got better reviews . I liked it better than the similar Judd Apatow films I think because it has no pretensions other than being funny . Worth a shot if you're feeling low brow .
Good pairing of Jess Franco and Eddie Constantine	One of the better Jess Franco films stars Eddie Constantine sending up his tough guy image as a detective chasing the source of mind controlled people carrying out the whims of a mad man . Constantine is clearly having a good time and it carries over to the audience . To be certain the film isn't super spectacular , its limited of budget but often dated , but at the same time there is a certain charm . Its an amusing way to spend an hour and a half if you should run across it . . ( Though try and find a letter boxed version the one I saw was a terrible pan and scan one that chopped off all sorts of things on the sides of the picture . )
Somewhat dry and somewhat silly narration counter balanced by images that haven't been over used	Soviet film about the German invasion of Russia during World War Two and the siege of Leningrad in particular . I'm of mixed opinions of this film . The film is at times dry , the story of the battle being told in a much too straight forward manner , since they tell you exactly what happened . At other times the film falls in to an almost parody of communist propaganda ( and it is propaganda ) with flowery passages about the strength of the peasant and the sacrifices made for the " motherland " . Its almost as if you don't know if you should be sleeping or laughing . On the other hand there are the images . Shot by some 150 cameramen this film has a great deal of really good combat photography . This is the war in the East as most people have never seen it simply because we haven't had access to the footage . Its not the same footage of the war that has been used again and again and again . For me the fact that I was looking at new material made getting through the uneven narration possible . Is this film worth seeing ? Over all yes . Sure its got some off kilter narration but the images are often treasures . Those interested in the Second World War and the War on the Eastern Front really should check this out . Others ( and even many buffs ) may find this a bit tough going .
Enjoyable time passer will probably pass from memory not long after you see it	College professor at an old college is removed from his position by the staff because he isn't up to date enough and into Swing music . Hitting the road he travels the country looking for work ending up mixed up with gangsters at a night club . Good but not great B-musical that mixes songs and mystery . I'll give extra points to any musical where I don't hate any of the songs and this is one of those times . To be certain there is probably too much music , there seems to be a song every five minutes , but its pleasant enough . The performances are fine , though at times things can get a bit to anarchic as when three actors show up as a weird cross between the Three Stooges and the Ritz Brothers to do a school fight song . Forgive me for not saying more , its just that the film is ultimately forgettable even though it is very enjoyable while its on .
On its own terms not a bad film .	Boris Karloff as a descendant of the mad doctor who is trying to bring the creature back to life with atomic energy . To get the money he opens his castle to a movie crew and mayhem results . Uneven horror film is very good in the Karloff monster scenes and rather poor in the soapy movie crew scenes . I don't think I'd ever really seen the whole film until Monsters HD has put it into the current rotation . I like the movie in a nostalgic sort of way and think its perfect for a dark and stormy night when a creaky black and white film ( more silly then scary ) is on the menu . Just keep in mind its a film from a bygone time and you'll enjoy it
A good cast , some great sequences and spiffy octopus are let down by a plot that goes nowhere . Still its worth a look if you take it for what it is .	Two detectives find themselves on an island looking for a murderer and instead find that they are entangled with a super criminal called the Octopus and a real live giant octopus . Much confusion occurs . Amusing but totally nonsensical " mystery " based upon a stage play of some sort ( I would love to read it at some point ) . Clearly something was lost in translation since the story now transpires in a scant 54 minutes and makes as much sense as a Goon Show episode by Spike Milligan . Twist piles on twist and red herring follows red herring as great deal that is foreshadowed never happens or is changed to become something else . I do like the film I just wish that it didn't have all the ear marks of a comedy mystery since there is plenty of comedy but ultimately no real mystery . There is tension aplenty and there are a few sequences that create a nice sense of suspense and perhaps even terror ( the late game revelation of the master criminal creeped me out ) but the film falls apart in the end as being much ado about nothing . Its a shame since the cast that includes veteran stalwarts like Allan Jenkins and Hugh Herbert are up to the material or would have been had there been some material . Worth a look so long as you don't expect anything other than the craziness thats happening right in front of you .
Nazi and Japanese officers abuse women and try to get their hands on a secret weapon	Pure exploitation film about Nazi's in China nominally to help the Japanese try to win the war and to abuse women . Actually the Nazi's in Asia have come up with a secret weapon that could have helped the Fatherland had they gotten it home before defeat , however Germany has fallen and the Japanese want it only the Germans don't want to give it up . Lurid exploitation film that is supposedly based on actual case files . Other than some note cards about nasty experiments I doubt very highly that any of what we see happened . More unbelievable spy drama mixed with and excuse to abuse women this is the precursor of the Nazi prison camp films of the early 1970's , though with out the nudity and truly graphic violence . I'm not sure what I think of the film . Taken for what it is its not a bad film , but I can't say its the sort of thing that I would willingly watch again since there is a rather mean spiritedness to it all . If you watch it you probably will walk away liking it , but you may hate yourself in the morning
Disturbing	Abused clerk with a doll fetish tries to cope with memories of his abusive father develops a weird fascination for drinking the blood from corpses before amping it up toward murder . Disturbing , but in many ways not very good little horror film that is more than likely going to curl your toes . As with many of these films its the acts that disturb but not the whole package , since our " hero " is too crazy and too much of a milk toast to amount to much . And give it points for a non sensational , realistic ending . Worth a look only for horror fans .
Idle ts not . Wild it is . Some how it manages to be one of the best and worst films of the year at the same time	Idlewild aka the the Outcast musical is quite simply one of the best films of the year and one of the worst . No doubt you've heard that the film has almost too much going on , and to be honest it does . The film is the story of two boyhood friends , one the son of a mortician , the other a criminal on the edge of society , both of whom perform at a nightclub called Church . Personally I need to see this film again so that I can have some sense of what this movie is , since the trailers did not really prepare me for what was on the screen . Its not the trailer , its close , but its something else . Its a movie that plays by its own rules and in its own world . Songs are performed on stage , as music in the background and as musical numbers of the sort of traditional musicals . There are family issues , romance , crime , a lets make it big in show biz tale and a few other things acting as themes and plot lines in the film . There is humor and drama , violence and loving moments , animation , realism , and artifice . Its a movie that is trying to use every trick in the book and every paint in the box to tell its story . A huge number or points for a game cast , technical brilliance and creativity for 15 other films . Minus a few for an uneven score ( though the really bad sound system I had to deal with is probably to blame ) and take a way a bunch more for the inability to put it all together in a two hour movie . There is simply too much going on for the time alloted . I'm not sure that even if the film was longer it would have completely worked . For sheer audacity I'd have to compare it to a certain Nichole Kidman musical from a few years back . Idle its not . Wild it is . This is one of those movies where all of the pieces are there they just haven't found away of putting them together . Yes , its a misfire , but at the same time this is a work of art that deserves to be seen simply so that people can see what can be possible if you give a damn and if you try to do more than stay inside the box . We need more near misses like this so that we know that there are creative people out there and not just corporate hacks who just want to follow the trend and do safe films . If you love movies you really should at some point see this movie and see what happens when truly creative people get together and make a movie , just understand the pieces are better than the whole .
Good but unremarkable	Chinese action revenge drama has a group of crooks who steal from other crooks set up and shot up . Hunted by the cops and other crooks they set out to get revenge for the friends who were killed . Good but unremarkable film is the Chinese Crime equivalent to those movies you stumble upon on late night cable that hold your attention for their running time but disappear when they are over . You enjoy it while its on , but its not something you need to see it again . I liked it but I don't think I'll see it again . In that spirit you'll enjoy it if you run across it , but its not something you need search out . 6 .
Better than the first film this is still a disappointment	While Sue and Reed prepare for their wedding , strange phenomena begin to happen all around the world . The strange happenings are the work of " the Silver Surfer " , herald of Galactus who is coming to devour our planet . Its up to the Fantastic Four to stop the Surfer and Galactus before the earth is destroyed . I actually liked this film . It has more of the banter that made the comic fun to read , the action set pieces are cool and there is charm to it that manages to lift it all out of recent rash of dour comic films . I don't love the film as a whole but I do like the pieces very much . The problems for me come from two places . First the film is too short . The story cries out for a more epic telling with a better sense of place , but that isn't here . Sure the plot takes the characters around the world but there is very little sense of them ever being out of a back lot . Other than the London and New York scenes the film could have been filmed anywhere and so feels cheap or like a bumped up TV movie . The other problem is that I don't know how non comic fans are going to react . There seems to be an odd short hand which assumes that you know the comic . This is particularly true with the character development for the Surfer . His character is in many ways very close to the comic book one , except that you wouldn't know that unless you read the comic . He says almost nothing and is more or less just a silent sentinel . While this was fine for those who know the comic , my Dad and others seeing this with me were left a bit perplexed as to why the character went on to comic super stardom . Its not worth getting into the changes from the comic , Galactus in particular , since the movie seems intent on carving out its own niche . Worth seeing , though I would be hard pressed to say its worth 10 bucks a head ( bargain matinée or DVD anyone ? ) .
Better then you think it is ( in parts if not as a whole ) and worth a look	Odd mish mash of a movie about Santa's brother Fred . When Fred needs money his brother offers him the cash if he'll come to the North Pole and work for it . Fred arrives just as Kevin Spacey as an efficiency expert arrives to see if Santa can stay in business . An odd mix of low brow humor and clever bits that never quite comes together . There is a good movie rattling in there that occasionally shows its head , more toward the second half when the film finally finds a direction . There is much to like , in particular the depiction of sibling rivalry ( the sibling anonymous meeting is hysterical ) and the sense of family . A misfire to be certain , but a misfire that will be very welcome on cable , especially when you get to the good parts . ( I want so much to tell you about the good jokes but I won't since I don't want to spoil them ) for the bits that work .
Its all about the girl	Boxing promoter in the underground fight game runs across a young woman with the power and ability to take out men twice her size . Hooking up they begin to make inroads into the fight game until the past and emotions begin to spin everything sideways . This fight drama is an okay little film . Its flashy low budget and independent attempts to spice things up ( there are distracting titles as to places and times-how many times is it New Years Eve ? ) never really amount to very much . This is a run of the mill little film who ? s dreams out distance its reach . Normally I ? d stop there and say that its worth seeing if you run across it but you didn't have to search it out . This time however I'm going to do something different and say that if you want to see a really good performance and what is sure to be an early performance by someone who is sure to be a big actress see this film . Rebecca Neuenswander who plays Katherine Parker , the fighter , is amazing . She gives a performance that is assured and radiant ( even when she ? s getting punched in the face ) . She is haunting in away that few actresses are . In all honesty I was ready to give up on this film early on but then there was this small young girl beating the snot out of this much bigger guy in an alley and I was hooked . Talk about making an entrance . Amazing . She has a fantastic screen presence something very few actresses , even established ones have . If she is can continue to get interesting roles and hopefully something that will get her noticed I think she ? ll be huge . Then again if she can be arresting with this mediocre script odds are she ? ll be able to make her own luck . She is an actress to watch . See this for Rebecca so that in five years you can say you saw her when . . .
Okay late Karloff can be a bit dull	Boris Karloff is a crusading novelist trying to change the British legal system by looking into the Haymarket Strangler case . Boris is convinced the man hung for the crime didn't do it . Of course his investigation turns up proof that he was right , and that he himself was the killer . Well made and well acted little thriller is on okay film to have on in the background . Recently released by Criterion as part of a 4 film set its an okay time killer best watched late at night . To be certain Karloff is wonderful to watch , especially in the scene where he finds the important piece of evidence which proves him right and also slides him into madness . However the mover isn't anything special and can be a bit dull ( too much music ) . ( The criterion commentary is excellent and the real reason to pick this up )
Offbeat comedy with a serious edge	Man who is the latest husband of a much married woman has to make do when she invites all her previous husbands , their new wives and families , plus some friends , all for Christmas . Things get complicated when his wife announces that she's pregnant . . . something that the husband makes him suspect that he isn't the father because he's had a vasectomy . Weird comedy drama from Sweden that made me unsure of what I was watching . Was I suppose to laugh ? Was it suppose to be more serious then it is ? The uncertainty was a little off putting . Its good but . . . I don't know . Maybe seeing this just before the end of summer or seeing it after three other fair films . . . or seeing it on an import Chinese VCD with English subtitles , I don't know , I'm going to try this again if for no other reason the line " Die you f-ing Santa " is too great a line in context ( delivered before Santa gets his butt kicked ) not to force a second viewing of the film that contains it . Maybe closer to Christmas
One of the better WW2 set martial arts films	WW2 set story of a Japanese plane shot down with secret plans for the invasion of Shanghai inside . The Chinese have taken the plans and are racing to get the plans into their military hands while the Japanese try to stop them . In films from the 1970's and early 1980's there seems to be only a limited number of martial arts plots , with most of the traditional set stories being either about conflicting schools or about taking revenge for some wrong . Anything that is set in any other time tends to be set during the Japanese occupation of World War 2 with the repressed Chinese taking on the evil Japanese . All of the WW2 films tend to look exactly the same or if not seem to be part of one long feature film of about 500 hours that was cut up . This film doesn't really seem to fit into that mold and quite honestly stand apart from the rest of the similarly set films . The plot isn't by the book and the action seems to be a little bit more clever . Watching the film I was pleasantly surprised by what I was seeing and actually decided to keep the bargain DVD since its good enough for a repeat viewing . Recommended .
Charlie Chan as Villain	How to sum up this movie simply ? John Carradine and Frank Fenton fight over Gale Sondergaard and over gold that Sidney ( Charlie Chan ) Toler and Rick Vallin have hidden . Its all set in the tropics and has murder , comedy , musical numbers , explosions , deep sea diving , fist fights , romance , and somewhere in there is the kitchen sink . I think about the only things not in this movie are aliens and tumbleweeds . Its a wild movie , so please don't ask for a clearer explanation since it would take too long . But the real question is how is it really ? Its good , but not great . There's too much going on and at times it's a little too slow , which is kind of odd considering all that happens in the films 80 minutes . This is a classic " watch at 2 am movie " with lots of bad commercials and public service announcements interrupting it . The cast is good across the board . Carradine seems to be enjoying having the lead in an adventure film . Sidney Toler , forever etched in my mind as Charlie Chan is wonderfully evil as Carruthers , and a joy to see him on the other side of the law . This movie also has a shoot out used in It Came From Hollywood where two guys shot at each other , back and forth dying as they did so until the guns were empty . I thought it had been altered to seem awkward and badly done . Nope . The gunfight is here , exactly as it was seen in " . . . Hollywood " . As I said , its good not great . What it needs is commercials to help break up the slow bits .
Okay film record of a theater festival aimed at teaching a maharajah's son and warding off evil	Jag Mandir : The eccentric private theater of the Maharajah of Udaipur . The maharajah asked the wisest men in his kingdom what he should teach his young son . He was told to hold a festival where he could show his son all of the arts that will soon be lost to the world . He was also told to have a procession around the city so that it would ward away evil . The film is Werner Herzog's record of the procession and the festival . I like the first half of the film where we see some of the set up of the festival and we meet , fleeting , the Maharajah . However once the show , or the festival starts its simply one act after another after another . Its not bad , actually its quite interesting seeing all of the various performers , however it is over whelming . Its a large number of performers in a short amount of time and with out any context or break ( even in the brief 85 minute running time ) it was too much . To be honest I think part of the problem is that the film opens with an explanation of the festival by a friend of Herzog's who put the festival together . In the seven or eight minutes that he talks he creates such a sense of wonder and magic of what they were trying to do and what they did that actually seeing the festival can't live up to his words . ( Though as he said there was over twenty hours of film shot for the movie and there was no way we could see it all ) . Worth a look on TV or DVD where you can pause the film if it becomes over whelming . 6 .
Nudge Nudge Wink Wink	The print I saw was a very worn black and white one from Sinister Cinema and as the film went on it rapidly became clear that the print's lack of quality and color work against real enjoyment of the film . The good king and queen of some far off kingdom are brought down by an evil invader , however the queen escapes with their infant son . She soon commits suicide rather than be taken prisoner , but does so only after getting the baby away . The baby ends up being raised by lions . Years later the adult Ursus ends up captured by the evil king who killed his parents and moves to prevent him from ever taking the throne . There's more to it than that but it at least gives you the basic idea of the plot . The movie is a step or two above the normal sword and sandal film thanks to a largely knowing translation that has Ursus speaking of wanting to become the special friend of a slave girl he's carried off . I know you're saying why would Ursus carry off a slave girl , simple he was raised by lions . The acting isn't bad and the translation seems to match the lip movements . Is this a movie your going to watch over and over again ? Probably not but should you run across it on TV late one night you'll find yourself entertained .
If you accept the leads great , if not its just okay	THIS MAY OR MAY NOT CONTAIN SPOILERS - - - Two people go diving and get left behind . The story is based on a true story . I didn't like our hero and heroine . I didn't care about them or connect to them in the slightest so I was left to the situation and the film making . Its not bad , but its not great . Its not really tense until the last couple of minutes . Mostly its just people floating in the ocean for an hour . I don't see the point . Why am I watching this ? The filmmakers don't really provide an answer . Based on a true story doesn't cut it when the event and its aftermath are much more interesting than what we see here . In real life no one is sure what happened to the couple since there is some evidence to suggest that the real event was a staged disappearance - but that would be another movie . Here we are left with the story unfolding as the filmmakers choose to tell it , which is not as expected but not very compelling either . 6 or .
good but creaky film with a unique setting	During lunch a friend and I watched most of Murder in the Museum , a creaky 1934 movie set in a side show thats called a museum . Actually its closer to what PT Barnum ran for years in New York , except that this museum also deals drugs . The plot has a crusading politician killed while making an inspection of the vile den prior to his formal attempts to close the place down . This is a a slow moving movie that is interesting in its view of the side show or Carny life in the 1930's . We see suckers scammed into paying extra to see a racy dance that isn't racy , until the cops leave and then they are hit for even more money to see a different dance . The dance is so un-risqué that a even a small child would wonder what the fuss is about . However unique the dancing is the movie does sport some interesting pre-code asides and lines that are still ribald by todays standards . The movie is an interesting way to spend an hour , or less if your watching it with a pressed for time friend who insists you jump to the end to see who did it . While my friend was proved right as to the killer we were lost as to the clues mentioned since we had missed about 20 minutes of screen time . I will be going back to see what exactly those clues are soon . I liked it . Its no great shakes but as an off beat mystery from before the code its not a bad way to spend an evening in front of the TV . Do you need to buy it ? No , but if it should happen to be on TV why not tape many other modern mysteries which are twice its length .
Good but not great murder mystery that will keep you interested with the twists and turns of the whys	A student is killed at the top of a tower on a college campus . No one saw anyone come down from the tower and there was no place for the killer to hide . Charles Starrett plays Bill Bartlett a reporter who just happened to be on the scene of the crime . He's interested in a girl who becomes one of the suspects in the murder . She is working her way through college as a singer in a night club run by a gambler known as Blackie . As more deaths occur the reasons for the murder become less clear , especially as we learn about some of the suspects . This is one of those movies thats just okay and under normal circumstances you'd turn off the TV and go to bed but because things manage to be just interesting enough you find you're staying up well past your bed time . Don't get me wrong its a good movie , but its nothing special , but once the first body is found and you realize short of flying no one could have killed him you end up pretty much hooked . I sat there trying to go to bed , yawning , and unwilling to turn off the DVD because I had to see how it was done and why ( I knew who the killer was the instant the actor / actress appeared on screen ) . Don't watch this too late or you'll end up up 70 minutes past your bedtime . Worth a rental , an hour of your time and a bag of popcorn . You won't remember it but you will enjoy it .
Okay but not great retelling of the aftermath of the Munich Olympic tragedy	This is a movie that looks and feels unlike any other Steven Spielberg film . Its a well made and mostly well acted story about the Israeli hit squad sent out to kill the plotters of the terrorist attack at the 1972 Olympics . The problem for me was that I was never emotionally engaged except when we see the recreation of the attack . I never really felt any connection to any of the Israeli agents taking revenge . A large part of the problem is that Eric Bana seems completely out of place in the film . He's much taller and much too good looking not to stand out in a crowd , which struck me as odd since he was chosen to lead the team in part because he didn't look Jewish . Bana also seemed to have only one expression through most of the movie and I wondered whether he was actually Buster Keaton in disguise . This isn't to say the film is a bad movie , its not , Its just not a particularly engaging one . For my money I would rather see the 1986 version of the same story The Sword of Gideon , or better yet the excellent documentary One Day in September again since at least I would actually feel some connection to the events rather than just an admiration for the film making skill .
Final section of the film damages what is other wise a great film	Story of Daniel Plainview a silver miner who switches to oil . The film charts the course of Plainview's life over 30 years as his fortunes rise and he descends into madness . Going into the film I was carrying a great deal of baggage . The promise of a truly great film is tough thing to have to live up to . Hailed by many as a classic film on par with many of the cinema's greatest offerings I'm left to wonder if its all hyperbole since the film has barely been on view to the public for roughly a months time and true classics are created in the long term not the short . It will be for time to tell us if the film that has been fashioned here is the masterpiece or an also ran . For me the film is very good , but I found it considerably less than the " one of the greatest films " that the film has been handed by some critics . To be certain the film is excellent on almost every level technically . It is sterling achievement of the film maker's art . The problem for me is that the film falls apart in the final stretch and collapses into simplicity in the final scene . Its rather hard to discuss this with out going into detail , something that may or may not ruin things if you haven't seen the film . Since I don't want to spoil anything I'm going to choose not to discuss things other then to say the denouncement did not work for me and in a way renders most of what happens prior less than it seemed . I do think that the film is worth seeing . I just think it's not the be all and end all or recent American cinema . 8 . 5 to 1927 , considerably less after that . 6 . 5 over all
good horror film with great moments	Nominally based on a true story ghost story about a family that moves into a new home so that one of their children with cancer can be closer to the hospital treating him . They are unaware that the house they moved into was a former funeral home and that it is haunted . Good , and at time great horror film that takes the basic premise and runs with it , adding in all sorts of ghoulies and ghosties and things that go bump in the night . I decided to give the film a go after seeing the Discovery Channel special on the same subject . A bit unfocused in the telling , the film imagines a great deal of additional material and evil doings , the film seems to lurch about at times as it tries to find its footing to get you to the next scare sequence . Where the film shines is in the scare sequences , some in the present , some in flashback , where the weird happenings and strange sights manage to send some shudders up and down your spine . Is it a great film ? no . It is however a good , but flawed one thats perfect for curling up on the couch with a bowl of popcorn . I liked it .
Michael Douglas and Kiefer Sutherland go down a well worn road in a good movie that really should have gone straight to cable	Michael Douglas is a secret service agent framed in a plot to kill the President of the US . Kiefer Sutherland is the agent on his tail . Its not a bad movie its just been there done that with form over content film making . There is no real tension because the actors are in roles they've played a dozen or so times before ( Sutherland in 24 each week ) so you can pretty much walk them through whats happening . Thats the problem here , its all been done before , better . The real question is : Do I really need to pay 10 bucks a head to see whats a essentially a big screen TV movie ? I think not . As I said its not bad , its just not worth running out to the theater to see . Wait for cable where this movie really belongs .
Well acted dark tale of people waiting to be rescued	One of the Dogme 95 , this is the story of a bus load of people who end up lost in the African desert thanks to a non-functioning compass . Stranded at a deserted mining camp the group decides to put on a production of King Lear to pass the time . Tempers and passions flair as emotions become raw and exposed in the burning sun . As with all Dogme films this is low tech and in your face . The people and the emotion are the story . These are films that allow actors to show you how good they are . These are also films that can irritate the hell out of you because very often they come across as extremely contrived . This film is an example of both being a really good actors showcase and being contrived . The problem for me with this film is that at the outset I didn't care about anyone . I found the group to be a bunch of high maintenance people who are now in a situation where they can whine some more . The feeling lessened as time went on and things begin to happen , but it took awhile . I think part of the problem was that I disliked the set up , which seemed far too artificial , though certainly it's plausible . I also wasn't that keen on how some of the film was shot . Like all Dogme 95 films its shot using only hand held cameras so the film has an odd feel at times . It mimics , as some people have pointed out , the look one would get if one had shot the film using a camcorder , which lends a sense of being an actual record , but at the same time it seems careless and jarring , and less than natural , despite the fact it strives to be . I liked this film . I didn't love it . I think I would have liked it more if I had come in a few minutes late and could have thought that I missed something . It's a rather bleak film with some people I didn't care for . It's a hard film to warm up to for that reason . If you're interested in an off beat dark drama I'd give this a try , though I would suggest you weigh your decision against how you feel about any previous Dogme films you've seen . ( your mileage may vary )
You'll either love it or hate it	A game designer has already been turning the dreams and life of an ex-girlfriend into a video game when she asks him to go with her to visit the house she just inherited . As you can guess things get very strange from there . The plot doesn't have more that I could reveal without spoiler alerts so I won't . The film itself is interesting . It looks like the very game they are making with everything except a score of some kind displayed . There is an mix of video , film and other types of images that work to help breed tension and a sense of other worldliness . The weird designs of the house and of what is found there are suitably creepy and frankly the real reason to see the movie . Visuals aside this is a slow film . Much of the first half is little more than a walk through of the house . Its creepy and gives you a sense of place but it goes on for so long . Its too much like a video game where you explore a house . Once the plot goes into real motion things become more interesting but not completely rational , even in the movies own logic scheme . Is this a bad film ? No it just doesn't live up to the promise of the visuals and the beginning . Is the film for everyone ? No . I think it'll run about as to love and hate . The visuals and the newish take on how to put a film together are whats the draw here . If you can take a visually interesting but slowly told film try it , otherwise stay away .
Eddie Izzard's hysterical portrayal of " It " is his best performance and the only real reason to see this otherwise unremarkable children's film	Five children go to the country to stay with their uncle during the First World War . While exploring the house they come upon a secret door which takes them down to the beach where they meet a " sand fairy " who agrees to grant one wish a day for them . The wishes all go horribly wrong , but in the process the children learn something . The Jim Henson Company produced this adaptation of the E Nesbit story and its not one of their better works . The film looks like any other children's book adaptation you can think of to the extent that you could probably inter-cut scenes from this film with any other similar children's film and not be able to tell the difference . Its not bad , but it doesn't have anything unique about it . . . . . . well actually it does , It has two excellent performances that keep this film from sinking to the bottom of the children's film adaptation barrel . The first is Kenneth Branagh as they kids crazy Uncle Albert . he isn't in it all that much but while he's on screen he chews the scenery looking like a deranged Jim Broadbent . He is charmingly scatterbrained as a man who doesn't know what day it is and who wonders where last October went to . The other joy is Eddie Izzard , in his best role to date as the voice of the sand fairy , the " It " of the title . This is Izzard at his free-form best as he bounces off the walls of sanity in a steady stream of nonsense . Izzard's portrayal is a kin to an evening of his best stand-up comedy but in the context of the story , where anything can and will come out of the mouth of a little creature with a mobile home . Its one of the funniest things I've seen on screen on long time and he's the real reason to see the film . Over all a completely average children's film made more than watchable thanks to Eddie Izzard's vocal performance as It . Worth a rental or a viewing on cable , especially if you're a fan .
Not Get Shorty , but not a disaster either	The sequel to Get Shory has Chili Palmer taking on the music business . Its not as good as the first film , but if taken on its own is a good time passer . The problem here is two fold . First the film has a running gag about hating sequels , which would be fine if it was just a joke and didn't extend to the film making . Few of the actors in this film seem to be doing more than walking through the film for the cash or as a joke and it shows . The second problem is that there is way way too much going on and way too many people doing it . It seems to me that every time that someone of note shows up the movie has to stop to give them their couple of minutes on screen . Usually the material is decent , but it slows the pace down . I kept wanting to speed things up . That said I did like the film , but regret having paid movie theater prices to do so . This is a rental , not something you pay ten bucks to see . If you get the chance to rent it or see it on cable give it a shot . Just don't expect an equal to Get Shorty .
Better than most shot on video films is worth taking the time to see	Small town cop in Jamaica returns to Kingston to fight organized crime through his effective but not always nice methods . Normally I dislike shot on video dramas since they come off as ultra cheap an inept , this film however bucks the trend is a pretty good little crime drama . The action is quite good and has a realistic feel and the performances are there and not the typical sort of posturing one often finds in films of this sort . It all works . Best of all the video production actually adds an immediacy that most movies shot on film don't have . This is one to consider if it hits cable or you see it in blockbuster . Its not the be all and end all but its worth a shot if you're doing a double feature .
The great pieces never come together	John Cusack does the voice for Igor assistant for one of the mad scientists in the country of Malaria , a country cursed by perpetual darkness . The country is so desperate that every year it holds a mad scientists fair to come up with new invention with which to blackmail the rest of the world . Igor is of course the smartest one going but since he's the assistant no one listens to him . When his boss is killed , Igor sees this as the opportunity to step into the spot light with his invention . An uneven movie with lots of great things floating around in it ( Steve Buscemi's Scamper , an immortal bunny who keeps trying to kill himself since he sees there is no point to life or Eva's brainwashing going horribly wrong because someone changed the channel ) . The problem is that it doesn't hold together completely . Its as if it needed another draft or two to bring everything into sharper focus . The film could have used a less derivative design since many characters look like the belong in the Nightmare before Christmas . Yes the voice cast is great from Johns Cleese to Eddie Izzard ( as Dr . Schadenfreude , the Elton John superstar scientist ) to Buscemi , I just wish they had a more formed tale to give their talents to . Worth a look at some point ( it will develop a cult because of the things that work )
the Oscar must have been won for how the film plays on the BIG screen	Mike Todd's epic travelogue must have looked spectacular on huge screens of old , but on my 42 inch widescreen TV it was just okay . Yes I've seen the film before but only in pieces or cut up never had I seen it widescreen before , not had I seen in complete in at least a decade . . For the most part its an empty movie . Only Caniflas as Fogg's man servant has any real character since his is really the only person given anything to do . The film lurches from spectacle to spectacle with only the odd moment to get to know the characters . Its one of those movies that really makes you go " how did this win Best Picture ? " . Then again if I saw this in a theater with a huge screen I would have been floored . . . or not . Worth a look for the scenery and because it is a good film-though far from great .
Over-hyped	One time front runner for many Oscars disappointed me . Sure the music is great as are most of the performances , but in making the Broadway show into something for the screen something was lost . Its clear how the show would play on stage and you understand how " I'm Telling You I'm Not Going " brings down the house and makes those who sing it a star , but the mix of song and reality is an odd mix the movie never fully over comes . Is it a show or real ? The movie never fully blurs the line so it never worked for me like in Chicago , or in the misfire adaptation of Rent . The performances are good , but limited by the source material . I also have to be a nay sayer to Jennifer Hudson's role as Effie . She do have pipes and she sells the songs , but there is an intensity thats missing . On a stage she could sell it but on the big screen its clear that she's play acting . I think she should not have gotten an Oscar , nor do I think the movie should as well . . . . Its good , but not great
Trapped in the mind of Alice	Jonathan Miller adapted the Lewis Carrol work for the BBC's Wednesday Play series . Using music by Ravi Shankar and a style that is truly dreamlike he has deconstructed the novel in such away as to have it play as the unconscious ramblings of a teenage girl . Its profoundly disturbing in its way since almost none of the actors are costumed as animals so its very hard to know who is who unless you really know the book , what they say takes on a different sort of weight . Its very well done , but I don't know if I'd show it to any children since I'm not sure what they would make of it . Very much a product of its time the tone and feel of the piece is very much akin to almost any of the films from England from the period ( say Richard Lester's Beatles films or Bedazzled , or something with Eleanor Bron ) . The cast is wonderful allowing for a show case for people like Peter Sellers , Peter Cook , Michael Gough , Michael Redgrave , John Gielgud and Leo McKern . Its a unique and very successful telling of the story , however its so odd I don't know if I ever need to be trapped in Alice's head again .
See this in 3	This looks like it was a gas in 3D but seeing it in 2D is disappointing . Its a good updating or rethinking of what happens ten years after a miner goes berserk during a mine collapse , and how the bodies begin to pile up on Valentines day . Well made the film is full of computer generated gore much of which looks computer generated , but I'm imagining was quite fun in 3D . . The shocks and scares are surprisingly there but they are more of the variety you get from rides in an amusement park rather than the sort that you get from a horror film ( no nightmares here . A must see in 3D but less so in 2D . between 6 and
Now very dated film about daredevils touring the country is interesting as a look back at life in the 1970's	Summer on the road with The Death Riders , a group of motorcycle and car daredevils . The group is made up of guys in their late teens and early twenties . They travel around in vans and cars going from state fair to state fair and race track to race track . They jump motorcycles , jump and crash cars , drive through burning tunnels , blow themselves up with dynamite and do assorted other stunts . This is an interesting look at a brand of entertainment thats pretty much gone the way of the wind . Not so long ago automotive thrill shows used to criss cross the US doing wild stunts and providing an evening or afternoons entertainment , usually in conjunction to the state fair or as part of an evenings program of races . But as safety and insurance concerns grew and the places where you could put on these type of shows diminished they disappeared or changed into something else . If you've ever wanted an idea of what it was like to barnstorm the country this film will give you some idea . To be honest time has not been kind to this film . The one or two camera set ups used often miss a great deal , one crash in the hometown of one of the Riders is not caught on film because the camera was covering the crowd , in particular the grandmother of the one who crashed . We watch as she becomes so upset paramedics have to be called in . At other times the night time filming obscures a good deal of the action . Things get better as the film goes on so its as if the film makers were learning on the job , however it makes some of the early parts of this film slow going . There are other problems , the Riders tend to blend together and the music , while good , never allows for any excitement to creep into the proceedings . Still this is an interesting time capsule of days " long " gone . Anyone interested in racing or motor sports will get a good look at how safety has changed over the years , and how there really was no safe distance between the track and the crowd . The safety equipment for the riders is non-existent . Many of the stunts , such as the people jump , will probably not be done again with such a care free attitude . Its amazing how times have changed . No , this is not a great film , its probably only barely a good one . Certainly if you're looking for just spills and chills and stunts its very disappointing , however if you can accept that this is a time capsule of days gone by , made by guys who had nothing even remotely high tech or flashy , then you will probably enjoy yourself for the hour and a half or so that the film runs .
Good	I picked this up in Chinatown because the cover showed a NYC taxi which told me that this was set in the Korean section of New York , its about two blocks from Penn Station . I was interested in the film because I was curious at how a Korean filmmaker would do a story set in New York . The film actually is an American tale of a Korean Lawyer who gets involved with the Korean underground . Its title location is a club on the titled street . I wish I had more to say about the film other than that long intro but I really don't . This is a well made but not particularly memorable film about a clash of cultures and getting involved with the darker side of life . Watchable but nothing special . 6 .
Take it on its own terms and you'll have a good night curled up on the couch	Un-aging community in the words is discovered by a pair of teens . The community remains forever young thanks to black magic and the occasional sacrifices to the title character . Surprisingly good diversion of a film , won't win any awards , but will fit the bill nicely if you want to curl up on the couch and watch a movie on a rainy night . Basically a TV movie with some blood and gore ( the unrated version I saw had decapitations and such ) . I liked the film enough to contemplate recommending it to friends and even myself as something to consider as worth a second viewing . Is it a great film , absolutely not , and its probably a little too long , but it's still worth a peak .
John Woo makes a comedy	Amusing comedy with a priest reincarnated in order to save the soul that a reincarnated disciple of the devil has decided he is going to give to his lord and master . The guy chosen is a sweet schlub of a guy who wants to be a great singer . Better than several recent Hong Kong comedies I've seen , this film actually has some laughs and a trying to actually be movie and not just some people being silly in front of the camera . I'm guessing that it helps that John Woo is behind the camera since Woo clearly knows how to make a good film . To be honest I didn't know going in that Woo directed the film , I only found out when I went to post this comment which is nice since it means that the film really works on its own terms and is worth seeing because its good and not because a good director made it .
Great cast delivering big laughs saves a too by the numbers attempt at comedy	As a bunch of new recruits comes in a drill sergeant bets his comrades that he will produce the top platoon before he retires in ten weeks time . Unfortunately for him he ends up saddled with a grand bunch of losers who are probably drive him in sane well before he ever retires . This is the first of the Carry On films , the long running series of low brow British comedies that poke fun at everyone and everything . Most of the jokes are secondary to the plot , or rather the plot is simply an excuse to move the cast from one gag set up to the next , and really isn't important . I had never knowingly watched a Carry On film until tonight . I'm not sure if thats a good thing or a bad thing . Certainly the cast is game , its lead by William Hartnell as the Sergeant of the title . Hartnell is best known as the first Dr Who , and he made a career out of playing this sort of part . He is joined by a stalwart cast of British comedians , who are all expert at what they do , which is produce a great many laughs ( I have no idea who any of them are even though all of their faces are very familiar from other films and TV shows . ) I'm torn about the film . Taken as a series of set pieces this is a screamingly funny movie . The jokes are the sort that are not only laugh out loud funny , but will make you laugh so hard that you'll go light headed . On the basis of the jokes its easy to understand why this film spawned 31 films , several TV specials and stage shows . Unfortunately as a movie , with a plot this film is the pits . Its awful . None of it really hangs together as the numerous character plot lines cross and recross to very little effect . It almost sinks the movie since the good stuff clashes badly with the bad stuff . Still I haven't laughed this hard in a good while , which makes rating this movie difficult . If you're a fan of British comedy its worth a look . Its also worth a look if you like military humor or don't mind a comedy that has a a bad plot line , but very funny jokes . Rent it or borrow it , but don't buy it ( at least until you've seen it an know if you like it ) .
What kind of movie is this and what is is about ? This film can't make up its mind	WWE remakes running man by mixing it with Battle Royal as a bunch of convicts are dumped on an island for fight to the death on pay per view . What could have been good action film flounders under uneven direction , I don't mean the director is bad , I mean the film doesn't know where it wants to go . Is this a story of the people putting the show on or is it the convicts themselves . I don't hate the film I'm just disappointed in it if it had some sort of narrative vision . Yes the action is good but its undercut by the rest of the film . Worth a look when it plays cable or hits netflix .
Clever mystery is handled unevenly	Butterfly Murders This is an early Tsui Hark film with a neat mystery at its core . The basic story concerns the investigation of a series of death said to have been caused by deadly butterflies . It's a investigated by a journalist who enlists the aid of a couple of monks who then journey to a monastery to see what's going on . There's more to it than that , a clash of clans and a newly discovered manuscript of an important writer also figure into the mix . As a mystery this is quite good . The idea of killer butterflies is more than enough to intrigue even the most jaded mystery lover , heck it hooked me . The film also boasts some very good martial arts sequences , especially a villain in a unique suit of armor . The problem is that the two halves don't really mesh . There are times when both the mystery and the martial arts seem out of place . It's as if Hark didn't know which way to turn and put in a fight or a plot twist because he had to move things along . The seeming uncertainty makes the pace of the film uneven with moments where it moves along a good clip and others where you look at your watch wondering when its next going to move forward . Still it's a good movie . Certainly worth a look if you want to see a mystery with a unique twist or a martial arts film that's not your typical run of the mill .
Strange martial arts film	This review is of the original cutMartial Arts film as spaghetti western . Wong Kar-Wai makes a martial arts film that is a visual wonder-though its mostly close ups-and a bit hard to decipher because the story is told in what could be generously said to be a fragmented style ( and has a great number of close ups ) . Its has something to do with two friends who meet every year to drink , wine that makes you forget your past , revenge , another swordsman and some other things that I didn't quite pick up . I'm not sure what to make of the film . The dialog is really great , but at the same time walks that knowing sort of edge that makes me wonder what Kar-Wai was up to . Apparently breaking down since in the middle of making this he wandered off to clear his head by making Chungking Express . I liked it as pieces because I can get my hands around the pieces but as a whole I'm not to sure of the plot-if its good-if it means anything . Kar-Wai has cut the film once more which from reports seems to be close to the original cuts with a few changed shots , some image manipulation and a slight alteration in music . I have no idea if this will improve or detract from the film which some people see as a a masterpiece . Some things I've read have tried to put the film into a context based upon Wong Kar-Wai's other films , implying that if you've seen other films by the same director this film will be easier to digest . Maybe , but I'm not too sure since it plays differently than any of his other films ( and I've seen most of them ) . I don't know . I'm going to have to ponder this .
How Far is Over the Top ?	This is based on an Agatha Christie story and contains some of the most histrionic acting I've ever witnessed . I never knew that anyone could go so far over the top and not shoot out of the frame and into space . The basic plot concerns a young woman who wins a lottery and soon after meets and falls in love with a " stranger " , played by Basil Rathbone . Rathbone's intentions are far from happy and it all winds down to a conclusion that allows . . . well lets just say you will wonder about everyone's sanity . I'm not sure I liked this . Its good , but it takes a while to get going . Once its moving its fine but even then I was never really content . I want to say that its oddly British , but its not so much that its British as mannered . I like that you have the pure unrestrained emotion in the final act , but at the same time compared to the earlier low key nature of it I was wondering how many coffees the cast had . Frankly I'm reserving my final judgment until I see it again . Even with all of that said and done I suggest you do see this movie - and stay to the end . Unless you've seen this before , I'm certain you've never witnessed what Basil Rathbone was truly capable of . I won't try to explain that statement , I'll let you search this out and see for yourself .
Okay thriller is done in by a poor central character and a joke or two too many	TV writer gets involved with a triad leaders daughter as well as the Japanese woman who is a bit unhinged . Okay comedic thriller suffers from a lead character who is ultimately a jerk . You really can't root for a guy who makes too many stupid choices , and unfortunately this guy makes any number of them , especially when it comes to women . I liked the film but the comedic edge that pops up now and again ( when hour hero is cruising for girls ) kind of lessens the danger and makes the film less than it should be . The result is its okay , but little more . Its worth a look if you fun across it as a rental or loaner but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it .
good	From one of the directors of the Blair Witch Project comes the story of a Special Ops team that goes into Afghanistan with a CIA agent in the lead . The objective is , according to the CIA guy , to get in and meet with a contact in the interior . Of course there is another more ominous objective that he won't reveal , even after weird things begin to happen . Okay military thriller with supernatural overtones is mostly lots of talk and men wandering in the desert . Its not a bad film , but it isn't really original , even if the film's objective is ( kind of ) . Well acted with a couple of chilling moments this film suffers from seeming like several other films . The first film that it reminded me of was R-Point which had a group of soldiers going in to Viet Nam to investigate weird radio transmissions . Its not the same film , but its s a similar frame work . If you haven't seen many of these military thrillers I think you'll like it more . For the rest of us its worth a look though I'd wait for DVD or cable .
Machanical and not that clever	Claude Chabrol's thriller about a TV weather girl who is having an affair with an older married writer while at the same time she is being pursued by the slightly unhinged son of a wealthy family . Good but rather mechanical thriller from master director Chabrol . Apparently There was a further mystery involved with the film in that he tried to have his connection with the film kept quiet as a way of lessening expectations . The performances are all quite good including François Berléand ( the cop in the Transporter films ) as the older love of our heroine . The problem for me was that I could sense the construction of the film as I was watching it as we are handed the pieces of the puzzles one at a time so as to lead us down the garden path . I could feel us going somewhere and waited to be misdirected . Unfortunately when I got to the end of the film I was left felling as though I missed something . Since I was watching the film on IFC's on Demand I re-watched the end of the film ( actually the last 20 minutes ) three times to see if I had missed something . Apparently not . This isn't to say its bad , its not , its just that I was disappointed by the fact that I had spent almost two hours for an okay ending . Worth a look on cable or as a rental but not for ten bucks a head in theaters .
Even though the scary moments are wasted thanks to poorly drawn central characters this is the best the director has done in quite a while	M . Night Shyamalan's masterpiece of a misfire about the end of the world . The plot of the film has a sudden rash of suicides on a colossal scale spiraling outward from New York's Central Park . People freeze for a moment and then when they begin to move again do themselves in . In Philadelphia a school teacher and his wife decide to flee into the country with friends , but the danger is following them . What can I say I'm both floored and angered by this film . The premise and the scenes of ( self ) destruction are some of the most terrifying and unnerving scenes put on film . Shyamalan wins back a great deal of the points I held against him with some of the best horror scenes of the year . Its creepy . Even the neatness with which some people kill themselves is unpleasant . Many of the scenes are some of the best of the year . However before you run out to see this let me add a huge BUT the central characters , aided and abetted by Mark Wahlberg and Zooey Deschanel who play them , sink this film . Actually pretty much most of the " character " and non event scenes are really weak , its as if they were cut in from another movie completely . Some have complained its the performances that sink the film , I would argue that the writing does more damage then the poor performances . Its just that this is not a film for the sort of characters shown to us to inhabit its space . This is a film that should have had no stars and should have been almost documentary like in the telling . The conventions of typical character driven cinema don't work with a story like this . If we had somehow been allowed to remain thrust into things with out an attempt at making people we can follow in a nuclear family sort of way this would have worked so much better . Do we really need to know about what may or may not have happened at Deschanel and Wahlberg's wedding ? not really . This could have been a nice companion piece to last years The Mist , but its not . The reason we need a non-conventional means of telling the story is that once we know whats happening , nothing is really done with it . ( If nothing else you need a non-conventional story telling because the thing-the monster - is invisible or nothing ) There's this run up to the end of the world but by putting a conventional couple into it you realize that its only clever to a point and that it really doesn't go anywhere once its all set up . Its like having someone telling you the start of a great adventure story-that hooks you with a great set up only to the storyteller wander off with out taking it any farther - leaving you to go what happens next ? Better than the last couple of films made by M . Night Shyamalan , but not one I would say to run out to see in theaters . Worth a look on DVD or cable . Best way I can describe it - when it works its a nice companion piece to Shyamalan's Signs ( or the parts that worked before the illogic took over ) 5 ish out of 10 for the creepy parts
Good for most of it but the lack of clear explanation hurts it in the home stretch	Photographer who needs to get grittier pictures in order to get a gallery show ends up running into Vinnie Jones who seems to hunt the subway for people to butcher . Directed by Ryuhei Kitamura who gave us Versus , Godzilla Final Wars and several other good films in his native Japan , turns in a nasty little gore film that for the most part works as a bloody mystery rather than a horror film ( It never really is scary in the classic horror sense because the pace is such the tension slips away ) If the film falters its in the the final twenty minutes or so when internal logic of the film jumps the rails to someplace else . Its an explanation but its one that doesn't make sense . Worth a look for those who like this sort of thing , just be warned its bloody and very graphic with the blows of Vinnie Jones ' hammer being literally eye popping ( the orbs pop out )
Good but you'll want something else as soon as its over	A Young woman joins the police surveillance unit and begins to track a gang of robbers and their mysterious leader . Good , but really great ( which some are hailing it ) police procedural . More suspense then action this tale of cops and cameras watching everything we do . You'll really have to forgive the lack of detail . I did watch the movie , finishing it an hour ago , but at the same time as soon as it was over my attitude was " okay whats next ? " . I think part of the problem is that you can pretty much guess how its going to go . You know the early confrontation will be played out later with a different result and you know that a couple of cliché turns will inevitably come to pass . I liked it but its such an unremarkable film that I can't really recommend it . If you do happen upon it give it a try but don't bother searching it out .
Too much plot and not enough running time reduce the scares to a minimum	( Apparently reasonably faithful ) Remake of a Thai horror film concerns a woman and her photographer boyfriend who seem to be being bothered by the ghost of a dead Asian woman . Complex story is speedily told with varying degrees of success . Interesting but never really scary the films drive to condense a complex plot into about 85 minutes pushes many of the chills aside ( to be honest the story is all there and nothing feels too rushed , as opposed to the recent One Missed Call remake which moved so fast that plot was overlooked or discarded ) . While there is some tension its never really enough to push it into must see territory ( maybe if it had some memorable scary images instead of a solid pot ) . Certainly worth a look on cable or DVD , if you don't mind an okay little tale . ( 6 or so out of 10 )
It kind of works	Dream like ( thanks to the extensive CGI exteriors ) modern film noir story starring Steve Zahn , Leelee Sobieski and Danny Glover . Set on a train traveling one night , it comes to pass that a sick man gets on the train . He dies before buying a ticket . Before the conductor , played by Glover , can inform anyone its discovered that he is carrying a valuable box . Zahn hatches the plan to take the box and not say anything and split the money with Sobieski and Glover . Of course it all goes wrong . Good TV movie like approximation of an old film noir ( though with blood and body parts ) is an decent throw back to the sort of films they don't really make any more . More brightly lit than any noir film this is a film that cries out to be seen in shadowy black and white . The color somehow takes away from the mood . No the plot isn't perfect , there are too many twists and turns that just seem to be there just to keep things going and I wonder about one characters ability to get up after taking a certain amount of injury ( perhaps they were related to Michael Myers . And I'm sorry if that was tortuous since I tried to phrase that in away not to give anything away ) . Flaws aside I liked the film , though I really wanted to love it , It just doesn't completely work but its still worth a look on cable or as a rental .
If you take it on its own terms its not a bad way to spend 75 minutes	Good B movie thriller about a fishing boat that finds a deserted yacht and takes it in . There is no sign of who owns it but the authorities suspect a certain known criminal . The authorities turn the boat over to the fishing boat crew under the laws of salvage but warn them the boats previous owner might want to get it back . Of course he does and what follows is the rest of the movie . Not particularly original this is a very watchable little thriller that follows all of the typical conventions of a story like this . Is it the best film ever to come down the pike , no , but I didn't mind spending the 75 minutes with it that it took to tell the story , which in many cases is all one can ask of a film .
Good but too much and too long . At the very least there should have been an intermission	Baz what have you wrought ? This is the story of a titled Lady from England who goes to Australia to join her husband and ends up having to drive cattle across the continent in order to get enough money to keep things going falling in love in the process . Then things get dicey as revenge and the Japanese come calling , all the while our hero and heroine make strides at smashing the racism toward the Aborigines . Baz Luhrmann's Australia is a huge sprawling epic of a film . The best way I can describe it is as a pleasant and entertaining fat man in a house dress who pours out of the seat he's in . He's often an ungodly sight but at the same time you can't help but find him entertaining . To put it another way its a meal with everything on the menu where they keep bringing you course after course which you have to eat because you can't leave the table . Give them points for making a go of it , take points away for having them make a go of everything . The acting is , once the film settles down , good . The craft of the film is stunning . This is clearly a labor of love for everyone involved . I would think its going to get some technical Oscar noms down the road . The problem is the story which is often uneven and is ultimately never ending . The unevenness of the film is really apparent early on when the film begins with a narration that makes it seem like a grand fantasy like Moulin Rouge then it shifts to high comedy with Nichole Kidman getting to Australia and the ranch . then it becomes a western and other things before settling back as a western . Later shifts into epic romance and war drama come in the final third of the film . Its too much and there are times you want to laugh at the film rather than with it . On some level it almost pulls it off because the film feels so knowing , but at the same time it becomes so artificial that you never lose yourself in it . I won't even get into the the entire racism subplot , which is fine , but it keeps stealing center stage from everything else ( actually its more a deus ex machina that is called upon repeatedly to move things along ) Worse the film never ends . I figured things were close to wrapping up when the cattle drive ends , but no . There's well over an hour left to go with revenge and the Japanese still left to come up to bat . Honestly once the Cattle drive ends the film becomes a second movie . In all honesty I wish there had been an intermission because the change and shift in the film is so pronounced I wanted to take a break and come back later . Is it a bad film ? No . Its just not a great film . I'm sure that there are some people who will love this . I think on TV or DVD where there can be breaks and such as well as the ability to curl up on a couch , this is going to win a great number of fans . But as it stands now , as a sprawling beached whale of a movie , this is a movie thats almost too much for a theater . Worth a look , probably on a DVD or TV . ( The damning with faint praise remark . the film kind of reminded me of a more successful Heaven's Gate in that both a huge epics in search of an editors scissors . But where Heaven's gate went on too much about too few things , with resulting sequences that never ended , this kind of goes on too much about a great number of things . Heaven's Gate bores at times , this simply overwhelms . )
First of the Jerry Cotton films is okay , but not as good as the later films	( This is also known as the Violin Case Murders ) First of the Jerry Cotton films is okay but it made me wonder how this spawned numerous sequels . Cotton is an FBI agent who always seems to get the job done . He is described by one character as being able to find clues other people miss . ( I'll come back to that in a minute ) . The plot of the film has Cotton brought into a investigate a series of robbery / murders that have been linked by phone calls from the sister of the moll of the gang to the head of the New York chief of the FBI . Cotton springs into action and from there there the plot spirals out in ways that include a plot to blow up a school full of kids ( referenced in the title ) . In all honesty this is a silly film with Cotton's ability to see things no one else can in the evidence pulling things out of thin air , with Cotton simply stumbling upon a good looking girl who happens to be the girl making the calls and later deducing that the owners of a bowling alley are involved in the case . If you can get past the frequent " huh ? " factor this is a watchable entertainment , but nothing truly memorable . . Worth a look on a slow night of for those who want to see where the later , better Cotton films , came from . ( Also worth a look for the stock and process shots of New York in the early 1960's . They really use a great deal of footage to make it seem like it was shot in New York )
Better than its reputation	Three women who handle money thats to be destroyed pull off a robbery and then complications set in . Actually we know of the complications from the get go since it begins there and goes back . . . Good cast in a movie that isn't bad . Actually its a pleasant time killer , which completely surprised me because the reviews I had read had really lambasted this film . That the film works at all is testament to the three leads , Diane Keaton , Katie Holmes ( how is correctly cast here unlike Batman Begins ) and Queen Latifah . The three women and their supporting players make this good enough you wish it was better . As it is it's worth a look .
Strange	A genius named the professor robs a bank in Switzerland of its gold deposits . Good but strange caper film that begins with the robbery , which lasts for over an hour of screen time , before becoming a standard well planned caper has complications for the last half hour . Not bad , but very odd in that the film really doesn't let you know any characters other than the professor and his girlfriend for most of the film . Who are these people , you really don't know , even if it is amusing . Its easiest to explain the film as like watching one of the recent Danny Ocean films but starting with the actual robbery , with out all of the set up and character introductions . I liked it but I really can't understand how the film spawned a sequel , except maybe in that the film is a real Italian Job sort of film . ( Maybe ) Worth a look , possibly with its sequel .
The awful 1960's Hammond organ score ruins a really good mystery	When an old man dies just after making his will , the attorney carrying the will is killed in a car crash and the will is stolen . The will then shows up just before the estate is to be divided . The vultures of the family then scheme to prevent the rightful heir from taking possession of the estate , but a dark monk like figure begins to bump people off . Good Edgar Wallace adaptation is done in by in appropriate Hammond organ music which cuts across the proceedings . The music simply destroys any sense of mood and dread each time its heard . Who's idea was it to use it ? It's a shame because this is one of the better later Wallace films . Worth a look if you can discount the music ( and a couple of moments ? the final death - that are just plain silly )
Long title for a short movie	This has to be one of the dumbest titles ever . Granted it tells you what the plot of the movie is but that seems to be where the cleverness began and ended . This is really low rent Roger Corman . Its far from a good film , but the chuckle factor and the fact that it has different setting makes it worth giving a try for those who like bad films or at least want to see something different than the typical movie setting . The plot has the viking women going off to find their men who have disappeared . They end up finding them after crossing dangerous waters and running into a rubber sock puppet sea serpent . The men are being held captive by an evil tribe of men who soon capture our heroines , making escape seem possible . Running a brief 66 minutes this film is so full of clunky film making that you'll wonder how it ever got released . Costumes look like costumes , the sea monster looks dumb and the special effects aren't . Rarely has rear projection been put to worse use than here . Still , somehow , its manages to avoid being a truly awful movie . Sure its not good but at least its not the same old same old , which here gives it three or four points in its favor . , just for being off beat , though it probably deserves a 3 in a more realistic frame of mind .
Okay thriller had too many cooks and was too long in the oven to as good as it should have been	James Ellroy penned tale of a cop , played by Keanu Reeves , who is a loose cannon sent on the trail of the killer of his murdered partner . Protected by his captain because he can get things done and hounded by Internal Affairs , Reeves soon finds he is descending into a world that he really should not be part of . Reeves is okay , if a bit wooden as our antihero . Part of the problem is that he isn't given a great deal to do beyond allowing events to play out around him . To be certain he is a participant in events but there is a coldness to him that doesn't give a great many clues as to what is happening inside him . One would suspect he took the role because it offered him a chance to say some pithy lines , and behave in a more or less serious manner . The rest of the cast is quite good and one suspects that Forest Whitaker ( as his boss ) and Hugh Laurie ( The Internal Affairs guy ) took the roles because they got to play a bit against type . Good instead of great the films script , a long time in the oven , shows signs of being worked and reworked so much that the script becomes confused because too many hands lost track of what was going on . Rest assured that the central thrust and much of the dialog seems to be the work of Ellroy , the ending is most assuredly his in plot if not writing , but all of the details the additional writers have added have blurred what ever had attracted a long line of directors and stars to the project . Worth a look on DVD or cable where you're more likely to forgive the flaws .
Herbert West is back in a wild low brow horror comedy	Comedic Horror film in the HP Lovecraft vein-based on the classic Reanimator film . This is third or fourth in the series and has Herbert West in prison but still continuing his experiments to bring back the dead . Gory and silly , with some genuinely clever bits , this is mostly a splatter comedy of a low brow nature . How low brow ? A rat has a kung fu fight with a severed part of the male anatomy . I caught this on Monster HD and for the most part it amused me but I like this sort of thing , especially if its done well , which it kind of is here . Those who dislike blood or truly sick jokes need not bother . I don't think you can really say much beyond that . 6 .
I wanted to love this instead of like it	As the 30 days of night sets in the town finds itself under siege by a group of vampires . Filled with haunting images this film was mixed bag for me . To be certain the build up to the siege is very good . There is something about the way the story is told that keeps you watching even though its not the most logical of story lines . The problem for me is that once things really get set in motion there are lapses in logic that distract from often fun proceedings . Granted I was watching this very late at night so there is a chance that I missed something , but I never quite understood why the vampires-if they were so clever to get to Barrow because of the night would have waded into the population with such a blood lust that would have left them with no one to eat two days after they started . There are a few other WTF moments that keep the film from being great , but over all its worth a shot on cable on a Saturday night if nothing else .
Search for log buried notebook with Stalin's secrets is taut fun until the secret is revealed and found to be less then thrilling	Daniel Craig stars as a history professor specializing in the fall of communism in the former Soviet Union . A ( not so ) chance encounter on the street sets him off and running on the trail of a long buried secret concerning the death and legacy of Josef Stalin . Its a secret that many would kill for so Craig quickly finds himself in the middle of a hornets nest of well armed men . This was a multi-part TV movie based on a novel by Robert Harris which was trimmed slightly for DVD . As it stands now this is a good but still long winded telling of an okay mystery story . The problem for me was that once the secret is revealed ( around the half way point ) the film kind of has no where to go . Granted where it does go is logical but its neither as earth shaking nor as unexpected as one really needs with the build up it gets . Don't get me wrong as espionage thrillers go this is actually pretty good , especially in the first half , but in the end the story doesn't add up to very much . Worth a look on a rainy Sunday , but not worth searching out
If you like your action with a side order of silly this film is for you .	This is a Thai version of Charlie's Angels . Here there are five girls instead of three . Its a total goof . Everything about the film from the plot ( the angels have to protect a little girl who has a rare pearl ) to the characters ( one is a guy in drag ) to the action sequences ( they are sending up action sequences ) are very silly . At no point are we ever expected to take any of this seriously on any level , even if they are playing it all reasonably straight . If you go in expecting a straight action film you are going to be disappointed . if you go in expecting a Thai blend of action ( the action is the reason to see the film ) and comedy then you are more likely to have a good time . If there is any flaws its that the film doesn't quite work in the non-action scenes . The comedy there comes off as heavy handed . Thankfully the talking scenes tend to be brief . Worth a look for action fans with a high tolerance for silly things . Forgive me for not saying more but the plot is very slight . Its the action that stand out , and thankfully its all set pieces beginning with a fight on an airplane thats cross cut with a fight in a house and car chase on to the kidnapping of the girl to a fight in towels in an office tower on and on to the final girls in white dresses bit which takes things about as far as you can go . Its all well done and very tongue and cheek ( often suitably cheaply ) 6 . 5 over all . 8 or so for the action scenes .
Over Hyped Action Film	After the head of a Buddha is stolen , Ting , a young " warrior " from the village , heads to Bangkok to get it back . There he seeks the help of an old friend and is forced to fight various bad guys . The selling point of this film is the action . The hype says that its all pretty much real . I'm guessing with the fight scenes thats true , but with some of the motorized chases its not . Don't let anyone tell you other wise the fights in this film are spectacular , but are they the next big thing as one review called them ? I think not , if for no other reason that very few people would allow themselves to be beaten up like this . They also suffer from repeating a truly spectacular bit of acrobatics one or twice from various angles , its nice at first but then it gets boring , although it is a nice way to pick up with a different shot . The real trouble with the film is that outside of the fights there isn't much going on . The plot is one you've scene many times before . Its more an excuse to put our heroes int places and situations from which a fight will go . The non-fight scenes are a bit haphazard , , as if a different director had been assigned to direct and edit them because they didn't matter . The performances are as uneven as the rest of the film although Dirty Balls would make a great sidekick in Western films if someone would bring him over . This is a renter , not a trip to the theater but that said , you will enjoy it , although not as much as some people feel you will . ( Look fast for the invitation to Steven Spielberg to do lunch )
Well made feel good story that is weakened by the use of some clichés that have been over used in recent similar films	Denzel Washington directs and stars in the fact based story of the debate team from a small black college in Texas that was so good it beat Harvard and went undefeated for 8 years . That may or may not be too much information , except that this is an Oprah production and is being billed as a feel good movie . Well acted and well directed Denzel Washington clearly knows how to put a film together . For all intents and purposes we are in the south in 1935 . We see what it was like to be both poor and / or black in the south at the time with the dangers of lynching and white on black violence possible at any moment . The film also shows the joy of having an education and of the doors that having one can open for anyone . His cast of younger actors is excellent with young Denzel Whitaker ( no relation ( that I know of ) to co star Forrest Whitaker coming off best , probably because playing a 14 year old college student he's given the widest range of things to do . If the film falls down its because it follows the same path that every other feel good underdog story of recent years where the team comes together and over comes impossible odds and makes everyone feel good by achieving something no one thought possible . To be certain its dressed up more fancily and has two Oscar winners heading its cast , but at the same time it hits almost every cliché you can think of right down to the " banned " team coach , played by Washington , showing up in the back of the big final debate to see his team pull it out . I knew it was coming the minute he didn't get on the train . While I grant you there is only so many ways you could probably tell the story its a shame that the film ends up in the well worn rut of similar films , the film is so good in so many ways that it almost seems like a laziness that they didn't find away around the clichés , or at least dressing them up in a suit ( however fancy ) that was clearly a hand me down . more for the disappointment of not transcending the clichés . Probably should be a little higher . Comment on this
A man in search of something	Fictionalized story based on the preparation the director went through making his previous film . The story concerns the director talking to women and auditioning them by having them masturbate or engage in lesbian sex for their on screen role . The women open up to him and during the try outs he finds , at times the women , while clearly enjoying themselves can't always give him what he wants ( what ever that is ) . I'm not sure what its all about or what the point was but I really enjoyed it both times I've seen it now . A funny sexy off kilter film with spirits and apparitions wandering through it , this is plainly adult viewing . I liked it and its seemingly frank adult discussions of sex ( though I would love any women to tel me how true the feelings of the women in this film are ) . Worth a look
Good action film is also disturbingly violent	Probably the only true sequel to First Blood , and another step from the wilderness for Sylvester Stallone as a filmmaker . While not as good as the last Rocky film it is a decent action film that is a bit troubling in the level of its violence . The plot has Rambo in Thailand being hired to take a bunch of missionaries up stream into war torn Burma . At first reluctant to do so , he sees the trouble ahead , he is talked into it by Sarah who convinces him thats its better to die for something , than live for nothing . When the missionaries go missing the head of the church the missionaries came from hires Rambo to take some mercenaries to where he left the first group . Not one to sit behind Rambo once more finds himself in the thick of the battle . Quite simply one of the most graphically violent war films I've ever seen . Blood and body parts fly freely . It is almost too much to take , which is sad since in five years it's violence will probably be the norm . Trust me on this , if blood and broken bodies bother you don't see this film . Its effect is very visceral , becoming a real punch in the stomach . Amazingly Stallone manages to keep the body count high and not lose its effect , something many over the top war films fail to achieve . What troubles me is the films moral center is not clear . While its clear that Stallone and Rambo do not feel violence is never good ( a sentiment expressed by one of the characters ) its bothersome to wonder at what point is it too much violence ? I don't think the film knows and so it tries , and on some level succeeds , to hedge its bets . I think it works only because there is so much blood and carnage ( as there probably would be in a battle of this sort ) that you are kind of forced to ponder the implications of it all . Of course I could be reading too much into it . As an action film this is a pretty good popcorn film . It moves at a good clip , isn't too long , about 90 minutes , and isn't really that lost in Reagan era jingoistic politics ( come on the second and third films are laughably bad , as are many of Stallone's films from the same time ) . If you like action films I say give it a shot . 6 . 5 to .
Bad Movie Monster Classic	This is the story of what happens when a part of a long dead monster is dug up and allowed to grow to Godzilla proportions before it destroys much of Copenhagen . This film exists in two versions the American release version and the version that was released Europe . The films while telling essentially the same story are cut very differently . The European version runs over 10 minutes longer , which doesn't include alternate versions of scenes . Most tellingly missing from the American version is a pointless song by the handyman to a bunch of kids in a park , beach romance scenes between two of the characters and the the legendary flying scenes , which consist of the monster model being flown on strings at night ( their removal was probably a good idea ) . The American version also is missing the spitting of the animated green goo . I just finished watching the two versions of the film back to back and find that the non-English version is a better film , there are more shots of the monster and of destruction , and even though some look worse , its some how a more sincere , more complete film ( Handyman song aside ) . No its not a good film by any stretch of the imagination but it is a fun film , with a monster the likes of which we don't see any more . Its one of the dumbest , yet coolest , monsters in movie history . Yea its a badly animated puppet in fake settings , but its till a great way to enjoy a rainy Saturday afternoon . ( Just skip to the monster parts )
Decent tale of a diamond mining family would be better had the DVD not removed 70 minutes	The current release of this film on DVD in America is missing 70 minutes from the full running time as a miniseries . This doesn't hurt the film all that much , but somehow I think it would have been better longer . The plot concerns the return of an adopted son back to his mining family and the trouble his being given the reigns of the company causes . I liked this movie . Its was a good way to spend a couple of hours on a rainy day . The problem was that a couple of times there seemed to be something missing . The feeling didn't last long as I was too busy watching what was happening to think about it too much . No , its not a great film , it a good one , a sort of guilty pleasure . There are flaws , the biggest being the worst performance I've ever seen Roy Scheider give , something I think was do primarily to his stupid attempt at an accent . Worth a rental . in a guilty pleasure sort of way .
Even though I don't like the TV show I found this very funny	The Cartoon Network series goes to the big screen-or in this case the DVD . Its a strange rambling tale about the groups origins and he quest to stop the Insano-flex exercise machine from destroying the world . Rambling wildly from thing to thing in a logic that can only be described as ADD inspired , this is actually a funny movie . Yes , I who can't watch the the TV show for more than five minutes , has found this foul mouthed expansion of the series quite funny and clever . To be certain its not for all tastes since its the sort of thing that makes off beat seem common place , but for those with a slightly skewed sense of humor this movie is a funny romp . I don't know what else to say beyond that . If you have any interest in the series give this a try , its so scattershot odds are you'll find something to laugh at .
90 minutes in the company of a completely horrible person	I want to say at the outset that this is a great documentary . Its much better than the 7 I gave it , but I had to knock it down a few because its subject matter , Troy Duffy , is so incredibly unpleasant I never want to see him again . This is the story of Troy Duffy a man who managed to become the hottest guy in Hollywood for all of six minutes before it all went away and left him with nothing thanks to his own wonderful personality . The documentary , made by two ex-friends , takes him from the first glory days as Troy signs with Miramax to have his script produced with him directing , with perks and it follows as it all unravels at lightning speed and he's left with . . . nothing . The footage , shot by " friends " with unimagined access , shows Troy as he tries to get his movie made while his ego explodes . Troy can't shut up , or if he can he doesn't know when to . He is one of the most foul mouthed people I've ever seen with even the simplest of sentences peppered with four or five f-words . At first he seems ballsy and no nonsense but rapidly he becomes drunk , gruff and unpleasant with his tell it like it is ( or how he feels ) attitude becoming a bludgeon to everyone around him . Many friends fall away . The film makers , who were friends , apparently admitted that on some level the film is skewed by their dislike for Duffy , but seeing as there is so much footage of Duffy in action , the amount of film / tape showing him in a good light has to be infinitely small . He's an ill mannered jerk , whom even his brothers seem to think will screw up . And screw up he does as the film goes into " turn around " and he's forced to come up with Plan B as his money and " power " begins to drop away . I don't want to say more since what happens is the movie . Its a brutal , ugly , unpleasant and uncomfortable story . Its 90 minutes with a jerk and its compellingly watchable ( only once since he's too hateful to experience more than that ) . Troy Duffy will forever be the yardstick by which Hollywood jerks are measured .
Funny spoof of spy and martial arts movies is better on the small screen than it was on the big	Amusing comedy staring Dan Folger who won a Tony for the 25th Annual Putnum County Spelling Bee . The film concerns a Ping Pong Tournament run by madman Christopher Walken . A spoof of films like Enter the Dragon and everyone of those spy films where the FBI or CIA use a regular Joe for a secret mission this is an amusing romp I'm glad I didn't pay big bucks to see on the big screen . Don't get me wrong its a funny movie but not worth the 11 bucks it would take to see in a theater . Dan Folger clearly is a man of limited ability , He's okay here but its clear between this and Good Luck Chuck he's headed for a limited film and TV career in supporting roles . As I said he's good the role doesn't require him to do little more than mug at the camera and he's fine , but I doubt very much he'll be able to ever really do more than that . Christopher Walken on the other hand is a scream , and its clear why he took the role , he can go as far over the top as he wants and still be amusing . The rest of the cast including veteran James Hong and comedian George Lopez is up to snuff , though Maggie Q is given little to do other than look good . Absolutely worth seeing on both DVD and cable .
Good horror remake is probably going to be enjoyed more if you haven't seen the original	One of the better recent retreads of 1970's horror films . Okay you know the drill The Thorn baby dies in child birth so in order to protect the mother's feelings the father agrees to substitute another newborn , little knowing that the child is literally hell-spawn and will leave a trail of death in his wake . Well made and mostly well acted this is remake of one of the touch stones of 1970's film . Not wanting to mess with the original too much this is at times a close sibling of the first film and for the most part the film works well and it has some nice chills ( the opening explanation of the bible prophecy is great ) . Regrettably there are problems which keep this from being the outstanding film it should have been . First off the film is at times very cold . There is something distancing about the film . I could watch it as a very scary story being portrayed before me , but the chills didn't last . Out in the sunshine the films power withered . Part of this is the result of Liev Schrieber who is a bit too internal for my tastes . Yes he's good but he's awfully remote . Since you can't connect to him you don't fully buy into the story . Since we never buy into whats going on completely you see all of the flaws and ridiculousness in the story . These flaws were in the original but Gregory Peck sucked you in and you never noticed how stupid it all was . It doesn't help that it may be a bit too close to the original for its own good . Its been awhile but it seems that they may have cribbed a bit too much from the original . With out enough surprises we're left to compare and really think about what you are seeing , which is not a good thing in a horror movie . Making everything worse is the brat playing Damien is too demonic from the get go . He's just a hellish child and its hard to believe that anyone couldn't see he's the devil incarnate . In the original there was a tiny bit of doubt , here there is not , this kid is bad , which makes you wonder how long he's last among real kids . It doesn't help that he just glares at everyone and everything ( something he did even in interviews creeping out journalists ) and never generates any sympathy ( which the devil would have to do ) . I liked this film a great deal , actually more than I thought but in the end I was disappointed because it wasn't better than it was . 6 . 5 or .
Very good sequel to an exploitation classic makes very little sense but is still a great deal of fun to watch	Sequel to Golden Queen's Commandos is just as action packed , though much more nonsensical . The plot of the film begins with a band of women surrounded in an isolated farm house . They have stolen a large horde of gold which the military wants back . They decide that some will make a run for it with the gold while others remain behind . Any survivors will meet back at that spot in a years time to split up the money . Things don't go as planned and the story spirals out into three or ten different directions until we get to the final shoot out . A sequel in that the same cast plays similar characters to the first film , but with different names . Also not everyone is on the same side , nor does everyone have as large a part . This film is further tied to the first by the use of footage from the first film to give a kind of background on some of the characters ( also to signal which character is suppose to be which from the early film since costumes and appearances have changed ) . Very good in a psychotronic sort of way , this film has a plot that makes almost no linear sense what so ever . The plot jumps from gold , to diamonds , to a map , to revenge , to about eight other things depending upon the minute . There is almost no continuity to the whys and wherefores things just sort of happen and people just sort of show up . Its never boring , but it does bend your mind since any attempt at making things make sense is a lost cause . Its so demented that even the giving of one's self over to it only barely reduces the damage , this movie is just too weird . Like the earlier film this film is a mixture of genres , though to be honest this film is basically a western but with other things placed inside it . ( I do have to report that this film does have the musical number the first film didn't have ) I liked this film , I didn't love it . The problem is that its scatter-shot approach makes it much more difficult to love than the earlier film . This doesn't mean you shouldn't see it , you should , especially if you're a fan of the wild films that have come out of Hong Kong of the years or an action nut who doesn't care if everything makes sense .
Entertaining mystery	Singer Marie Roget goes missing and is believed dead . She then mysteriously reappears after 10 days . Not long after her reappearance her grand mother hears her planning to do in her step sister and calls in ace detective Paul Dupin of the Paris police force . Unfaithful adaption of the Edgar Allan Poe story is a rip roaring mystery with twists and turns aplenty as murder and mayhem put the Roget family in danger . This is a movie thats perfect when you want a solid little mystery that moves along so quickly that you really don't have time to think . It starts and just zips straight to the end in ways that many other mysteries of the time don't . Worth a look .
Fast moving action film is good but really could have used more time to flesh out some of the plot points	Re-imagining of the Arthurian legends via ancient Rome . The plot of the film has a young boy crowned emperor in literally the waning days of the Roman empire . When the Goths invade he is captured by them and thrown into prison . Rescued he and his few remaining men go to Britain to find the last legion . ( And I forgot the bit about Cesar's lost sword ) Based on part of a novel by Valerio Manfredi this film suffers from compression . There is simply no way that the amount of plot in this film can be held in 100 minutes . Its not possible . Well actually it is possible since thats the case on screen . This epic tale screams to be at least an hour to an hour and a half longer ( miniseries anyone ? ) . The removal of any number of plot details leaves little time for anything but action , action and more action . The action is quite good but the investment in the story is lessened since all we have are the characters heroic efforts to build character and plot points . For example the villain in Ben Kingsley's past is given way too little screen time to really be much of anything . Over all I really liked the film . Its a perfect rainy day movie . Granted I didn't pay 11 bucks to see this in theaters rather seeing an import DVD so I was saved from over paying for it . To be certain some of the sequences seem to have been filmed with TV in mind , still the sets are opulent and the cast , especially Ben Kingsley are dynamite . As I complained rather loudly above the flaw of the film is that its much too short to do all the things it wants to do . If you can forgive that and enjoy the look of the movie and the action you'll have a good time . Just remember to make lots of popcorn .
Very good old dark house mystery romance with atmosphere to spare	James Mason stars in the story of two women who go off to try and find out what happened to a friend of theirs a year before when she went off across the moors . While out on the moors the girls get caught in a rain storm and are forced to take shelter in an old dark house where James Mason , a slightly off center composer lives . What happens after that is the movie and frankly its a great deal of fun and worth looking for . This is really an Old Dark House movie-the girls come upon the house when its all dark and shadowy , and you can feel the danger lurking in every shadow . I loved how this film took twist after twist and spun off in new directions that kept you guessing as to what may have happened to the friend and what may happen to the two girls . if you like old dark house movies or really good thrillers this one is for you .
Warner Oland plays Boris Karlov	Since I don't know when this movie was made one can simply assume the name of the character that Warner " Charlie Chan " Oland plays was chosen simply by chance , but its true he does play Boris Karloff , er . . . Karlov . The plot of this movie has Oland getting revenge one of the Russian Royal families for the death of his daughter . It seems that his daughter was in the Royal Ballet and was the lover of one of the princes who sent her away causing her to attempt suicide . Oland finds a piece of the crown jewels , a necklace called the Drums of Jeopardy , in her possession . In her weakened state she runs to warn her lover only to die in his arms moments before her father arrives and attempts to wipe out the family . He's sent to the gulag vowing revenge . Years later , after the family has been displaced by the revolution , they head to America where Oland begins sending drums from the necklace to the family members before killing them . ( Legend says , if some one gets one of the separated drums , they will die with in 24 hours ) This is a great movie that is hampered by the fact that it now seems rather static . Its one of the movies from the early days of sound films , when there would be little music and long moments of silence that played fine then , but now seem to slow things down to a crawl . The first half of this film is dynamite and moves like the wind as we go from Russia to New York and out to the country in a breezy 30 or thirty five minutes . There's lots of action and complications . The trouble comes in the second half where the movie is locked in the country house and its surrounding area as the surviving members of the royal family wait for Oland's attack . Its not bad its just too slow compared to the first half . I give it over all , the first half scoring 9 and the second a 5 , purely because it seems so slow after the first half .
Solid , but Forgettable Fare	The tale of three cows going to save the farm is a pleasant way to spend 75 minutes . Although far from the best of Disney's animated features , its equally far from the worst . Its very funny , especially if you get all in jokes and spoofs that it contains . The music is very good , but won't win any awards . The voice acting isn't stand out , but its nice to have Roseanne actually be funny again . Definitely worth seeing if you have kids since both you and they will laugh and have a good time . My only regret about the film is that twenty minutes after its done you're ready for another movie . That isn't a bad thing except with movie admissions these days I'd like a bit of a filling meal . Three stars , lots of fun for the entire family .
Tons of Plot , Tons of Action , Just a Tad Slow .	A Roman Tribune , left behind to mind a subdued city , decides to go against orders and ends up becoming a tyrant in order to spread the glory of Rome . The tribune falls in love with a girl who is in turn in love with the leader of the rebellion . This movie is interesting in that the villain isn't really bad , he's just misguided . From his point of view , one that is truly understandable , he's doing the right thing . This gives the movie a nice shade of gray missing from most other epics of this sort . My one question is why is this called Alone Against Rome when no one is really alone against Rome and there isn't even a central character ?
Early Michelle Yeoh	It maybe Michelle Khan in the credits but it Michelle Yeoh . ( Chinese Stars often have numerous names by which they are known . ) This is the first in a series of films about a group of police officers who end up on various action packed exploits . I have not watched them all , but I'm told that they are all pretty good with this one being the best . This has a great deal of action and humor and if you like action films this is a good one to see whether you're a fan of Hong Kong Cinema or not since it all movies along nicely . The films only real flaw is the fact that its dated some what . What was current back in 1986 when this was made now seems very of a period and almost annoying . Thankfully the stuff going on on screen makes you forget that and sucks you into the action .
Haunting portrait of rampant crime in Italy	I saw Matteo Garrone's adaption of Roberto Saviano's best selling book on the criminal organization known as Cammora at the New York Film Festival . Telling five stories ( the book tells " hundreds " according to the director ) the film shows the effects of the criminal organization on life and lives . There is the story of a man who is burying toxic waste , a tailor who is approached by the Chinese to teach them how to sew , an older money man who delivers money to families in prison or worse ( this is a large story with many characters ) , the young kid getting in on the ground floor and the tale of two guys who think they can go it alone . Its a slice of life film that bounces between the stories making you wonder is it possible that they can't touch anywhere . The film borders on being a documentary with the sense that we are actually watching these characters go about their lives . Its a scary . There are explosions of violence that seem to come out of nowhere-and even when you know something is going to happen you still don't expect when it comes . I really liked the film a great deal . Clearly there are many stories to tell and if HBO wants to replace the Sopranos they might consider a miniseries adaption of the source . Forgive me its hard to really discuss the film because the film just sort of shows you the events with out really making a judgment . We don't take sides , we just see the world these people live in ( though its very clear that trying to be Tony Montana , as the two kids trying to go it alone are , will get you killed ) . The film's structure is such that you end up knowing faces not names and you don't always know right away which bit belongs with which story . Its very much a film like an immersion tank , the result is thrilling , off putting and a film that hangs with you and forces you to think deeply about what you've seen , more so because there are no easy answers . 7 . ( They really talked up the film before hand comparing it to La Dolce Vita , Open City and other classics of Italian film . It may have been too much and I reserve the right to readjust the rating later . Additionally once again the NYFF shows a film with white on white subtitles . How can we know what is going on when several scenes have white subtitles on white or light backgrounds - this was a source of grumbling many people around me when the film was done ) - - - Some 48 hours after the screening I find that I am still thinking about and meditating on it trying to find the words to describe it . ( And I keep tinkering with this comment ) the movie so maybe its better than I rated it .
Disturbing	Disturbing horror film about a weird signal that has disrupted all phone , TV and radio service . It changes your mind so that you become rationally homicidal . There is a rhyme and a reason to what you do , it just involves well thought out murder . There is something about the film that gets under your skin since its operating on its own twisted logic . Its a bleak tale that left me feeling very uneasy . To be honest its not perfect , some of the performances are weak and the narrative isn't all there ( I can't explain it with having to explain a great deal ) but it still manages to have an affect on you . Clearly its geared to be seen on TV where the early video nasty ( or is this something happening somewhere else ? ) segues into a weird pattern that will make you wonder if your TV has fritzed out . It hasn't but the world in the film has . One of the more unique horror films of late . Worth a look if you like horror films .
Gangsters and Monsters collide in a drive-in classic	Drive-in classic is the first time cult director Monte Hellman made a feature . Here its the story of a bunch of gangsters on the run after a robbery who hide out in a cabin in the mountains . Adding to the complications is a monster lurking in a near by cave . As the gangsters try to figure out how to get away from the law they also have to deal with the monster who is whittling away at their number . Its a creepy little movie thats perfect for late night movie viewing on a cold winters night . Far from the greatest film ever made its just an enjoyable little horror film that manages to balance both the crime and monster ( although I'm the first to admit that the monster at times seems to have been a secondary thought . ) Worth a look and a bag of popcorn , especially on Halloween . ( The running time of this movie was originally 65 minutes . Additional scenes were added for TV broadcasts )
Solid western serial hits all the right notes	Solid western serial stars Lon Chaney and Noah Beery Jr as trouble shooters hired by the military to find out who is trying to stop the mail from going through . Filled with breezy action and good characters this is everything you typically think of as a serial , actually to the point that it seems formulaic . Don't let that fool you this is a nifty little action film ( granted an almost five hour one ) . There are all the usual cliffhangers and for the most part it plays pretty fair with its resolutions . This is one of the rare Universal serials thats 15 chapters ( Universal tended to release chapter plays that ran 13 episodes , I'm guessing so that it could release four a year and have one new chapter for every week of the year ) . Despite being longer than normal the film feels to be the right length ( many 15 chapter stories tend to be bloated ) . Definitely worth a look especially if you like good western action . ( An interesting note is that Noah Beery Sr plays one of the key bad guys while his son is the hero's sidekick )
Epic production about the first Emperor of China is one of the best looking films ever made . Its also a bit too talky and soapy for its own good .	Shintaro Katsu , best known for playing Zatoichi , plays the first Chinese Emperor , Qin . This is essentially the story of Qin from the founding of " China " by his unifying the various provinces , through the building of the great wall on to close to his death . Its a huge epic production thats been compared to western films like Ten Commandments , Lawrence of Arabia , and Ben Hur . This a film on a scale that they simply don't do any more . As a epic films go this is one of the most beautiful . Its amazing to look at . The sense of scale and place has been rarely matched . The battle scenes are wonderful and on a scale that few films have ever matched . This is a movie where every person on the screen is a person and you can feel the realness . As an epic spectacle this film is one of the best . Unfortunately when the spectacle subsides the plot takes over and while its not bad it is rather talky and soapy . Its not bad , but it seems out of place in an epic like this and somehow makes the characters less then the epic size the need to be to inhabit this story . It makes what should have been one of the great films of the world , simply one of the best looking run of the mill ones . If you can secure yourself a copy do make an effort to see this ( on a big screen , TV or theater , its a must . ) ( FYI - The full running time of this film is 161 minutes )
disturbing	German made thriller about a killer with connections to Tattoos . When a body turns up burned and mutilated , with a chunk of skin missing , a senior cop blackmails a younger cop into helping him try and find the killer , as well as another missing girl gone two years . The investigation leads to several other bodies all with missing tattoos . Dark thriller that was explained to me as in the vein of Seven . I don't think so . It is a dark and disturbing little thriller that isn't particularly happy . Very well made and well acted the film is a bit too much form over substance at times , with its dark brooding passages and very deliberate set design . Its not bad but it kind of lessons the thrills since the film seems at times more intent on looking good . It also doesn't help that the who of the who done it is a bit too clear . Still its worth a look for those who like gritty , good looking thrillers that are a bit on the squishy side .
Sometimes life gets in the way	Luke Wilson is a man who wants to live a life of quiet desperation and drown his sorrows in as much alcohol as possible . However when the house he buys develops a water stain in the stucco in the back which a neighbor takes to be the face of God , he's forced to interact with the people around him . Amusing little tale that somehow puts together all of its wild characters and makes it into an enjoyable comedy about how one person's faith affects those around him . I liked it . I really don't know what else to say beyond that . Between 6 and
Painfully slow first hour weakens a very good Depression era drama	This is the story of Jim Braddock a " washed up " fighter and one time championship contender who manages to turn a fluke chance into something more . Its a rousing story about a man who although appears to have hit bottom manages to pull himself up again for the sake of his family . Word has this as an early contender for numerous Oscars , unfortunately audiences have yet to find this film , which as of this writing is disappearing from theaters . Having seen the film I can understand why people are staying away from this screenings , its badly paced and at two and a half hours it seems twice that . ( This will play better on cable and DVD ) This isn't to say that its a bad film , its not , its just that the film takes about an hour before it shows any real signs of life . Its not the fault of the actors , who are pretty much excellent across the board . You can't really blame the director , Ron Howard , either since this is a beautifully made film . The fight scenes are simply some of the best ever put on the screen . The fault is squarely on the script which takes forever to get where its going . Its a solid hour of how bad life is in the Depression and how hard it is for Braddock to support his family . It just seems to go on and on and on . Later in the film the seems to repeat the same notes again and again as if to show how far Braddock has risen . I got the point early and didn't need to be reminded over and over . I ' m of the opinion that you could probably remove thirty minutes out of this with out losing anything . I must say that this is a very good film once it gets moving and absolutely worth seeing , though its probably going to play better sitting on your couch where you can stretch out during the opening slow bits . . ( really seven and a half )
Disturbing horror film may haunt you if you click with it	6 beautiful women end up in a house by the country where they are help captive by a crazy person who has strict rules they must follow . Odd , occasionally , disturbing horror film from Argentina . Its a film that works because it plays with the rules of horror films in such away that at times you don't know what to feel or expect . Scenes play out in a WTF manner , seemingly brought in from another film , only to turn left suddenly and have a shocking resolution . I'm not sure if I like it or not but it kind of got under my skin in a way that will have me recommending it to friends who like atypical horror films . between 6 and , maybe higher
Good little thriller	Cole Hauser is an under cover FBI agent deep in a criminal organization . Told to torture an accountant by his boss , the unseen Ziggy , to find out where several million dollars in missing money went , Cole starts to realize that things are not as they seem . Good little B movie that probably should have gotten some sort of theatrical release , though its small scale nature probably play better on the small screen . For the most part this is a tight little thriller that keeps things ratcheted up . Its the sort of film that makes you wonder why you hadn't heard of it before . If there is any flaw in the film its that the way the story shifts through time is more than a little confusing . More than once I wasn't sure when I was seeing . ( I'm also out about Laurence Fishburne's performance , but that's another kettle of fish entirely ) Worth a bag of popcorn and a soda . Between 6 and
They Got Everything Right But the Pacing	Having been a Hellboy fan for years I've been looking forward to the movie since it was announced . Now that I've seen it I'm of mixed minds . First off its one of the most faithful adaptations of a comic ever put on the screen where everything looks and feels right . The trouble is that the term leadenly paced doesn't do it justice , despite action sequence after action sequence this movie fails to move at all . Yes , all of the inter-personal relationships are scenes are fine , but anything that has to do with action or the villains is motionless . After an hour I was fighting a desperate battle to remain awake and the person I saw this with had to keep being nudged because they were snoring . What a slow slow movie . Wait for video and then keep the remote handy .
Good . Better than the American remake	I watched this because I saw the American remake earlier in the day ( Mirrors ) . Its nice to see that the remake isn't an exact mashing of the original film . Here an ex-cop goes to work for his uncle's department as a security guard . The store is reopening after a fire and everything is going fine until a series of deaths start up . The tone of the two films is different with the American version dark and brooding and this one more bright and open . The fact that the store is opening allows for things like security cameras that further add to the story . I don't know if I liked this version or didn't like this version since my feelings are so tied up with what I saw earlier in the day . It is certainly good , but its different enough that my getting lost on comparing the two films distracts from this one . I'll have to watch it again to know what I really feel . ( I will say this I think the original is more internally consistent )
Impossible to rate correctly	This is the film portion of a sculpture that had images projected on it . Its basically abstract people getting sick and throwing up . Sort of . As I said its all abstract so the figures are only reasonably human . The image runs about a minute and then is repeated several times , which was then looped into endless illness . How do you rate that ? I don't know . Its fine for what it is but as anything beyond that it isn't much .
Just okay in 2D , in 3D its a great thrill ride	I must not decide to see 3D movies in 2D simply because I can't see Hellboy2 Okay ( in 2D ) retelling of the Jules Verne classic has Brendon Fraser as a geologist who's brother has been missing for ten years . As the university Fraser is teaching at is getting ready to close down his lab , his nephew turns up to spend a few days with him . through circumstances he opens his brothers copy of the Verne book and finds it full of notes . This leads Fraser and his nephew to Iceland where , along with the daughter of a scientist they meet along the way , they end up going to the center of the planet . Its a diverting romp thats reasonably close to the basic plot of the novel . The performances are good even if the roles are unremarkable . There is a minimal amount of tension , but not a great deal since this isn't really a movie but a ride or experience and its plotting is as safe and harmless as ride a Disneyland . Filmed with every intention of being seen in 3D this loses a great deal in 2D . Its not bad in 2D but it plays more like a harmless kids film then the cinematic version of a thrill ride . To be certain this will look great in 3D even if most of the effects and backgrounds are obviously CGI . There's enough things to make you jump and duck - effects that are completely lost in 2and will be more so once this hits TV and DVD . Worth a trip to the multiplex if you're going to see it in 3D . If you're not going for the full effect wait for cable , of hope they do release this in some form of 3D on DVD . 6ish out of 10 in 2D . 7 . something in 3D .
Action sequences make this movie a must see	Watched the dubbed version of SPL , which the Weinstein's have retitled KillZone , thus assuring that anyone who knew of the original title couldn't find the American DVD . Hell I had to do a double take when I found it in the bargain bin at a local video store for five bucks . ( granted it rang up as an early 90's film of the same name , which explains why a movie out for two months is available for five bucks ) . SPL is the story of how a bunch of cops decide to put away a really bad guy played by Sammo Hung . Hung is a very bad man with a love of golf clubs . Things heat up when an undercover cop is killed and the team tries to turn up the heat . The violence escalates and pretty soon people are dying on all sides . The dub isn't bad . It does what its suppose to though its clear from putting on the subtitle track there is a difference in the translations . Be warned its a bloody movie , though there are some funny and touching moments . Action fans will want to put it on their list of must see films . 7 .
Hard edged thriller is compelling even when it gets silly . It also has one of the best unsung chase scenes in movie history	Stuart Whitman is a police Captain who's sister ( played by Tisha Farrow who looks more like his daughter ) dies under mysterious circumstances . Whitman suspects murder and begins to investigate leading him down the road to violence and unwanted revelations . An odd mix of hardcore police action and gaillo thrillers this plays like a macho cop drama where the " hero " prefers to beat up people to get even the simplest of answers while the killer remains hidden and stalking his victims . Its so arch as to be laughable as Whitman abuses person after person in order to get at the truth . Don't get me wrong the action is really well done but its the type of thing where it seems that just saying hello is going to get someone punched in the face . Its the sort of movie they don't make any more ( and only did for a brief time in the early to mid 1970's ) because they almost instantly became over the top and clichéd . Don't get me wrong this is a good little thriller . Its got a hard edge to it thats nicely violent and lurid in an entertaining way . Frankly even if the film wasn't good on its own , it possesses a chase scene about an hour into the movie that is truly amazing . Clearly they were trying to one up Bullit , French Connection or the Seven Ups . And while its not quite the nail biter of those films it is a damn fine chase scene that has been unjustly forgotten by the ages . ( and yes the end of the chase is a hoot ) . If there is any real problem , aside from the macho to the point of silliness , its that there seems to be only one piece of music for the film thats played over and over again in every action scene . Its so wrong for the scenes to start with , but its constant repetition just makes everything sillier ( not to mention it grates on ones nerves ) Worth a look if you find it in the bargain bin .
Charming and amusing romantic comedy from Tsui Hark is his best film in a decade	This is a comedy about three women trying to find , well deal with , love , and the transformations that take place as a result . One is a scientist who ends up experimenting with pheromones , one is a young rock singer who's best friend is an imaginary version of a big rock star and the third is the head of a huge corporation that is the object of lust for every man she meets , but who herself feels nothing . This is Tsui Hark's first solo directing effort in many a year that isn't bad , actually its pretty funny and something I will recommend to friends . Imagine that . ( Honestly I was a good way in to the film when my thought became " Hey this doesn't stink " ) Hark never the greatest of directors , his recent films like Seven Swords , Missing , and Zu Warriors were for the most parts busts . This isn't a a bust . I really liked this film a great deal . I'm guessing that Hark's success is due to the work of Jae-Young Kwak the writer / director of the original My Sassy Girl . Looking over my review for the earlier Missing I said that Hark's problem has been in his scripts , something that isn't the problem here . An added bonus is the music used . I like the choices and the songs that characters sing . ( Bonus points for the DVD company subtitling the lyrics since they do move the plot at time . ) A winner . Which is something I haven't been able to say about a current Hark film for a long time .
Forget the American Version , the Japanese one is so much better	Picked up the remastered version recently released . It has the Japanese and American versions of the film . I watched the longer Japanese version which is oh so much better . Gone is the stupid narration . The voices actually match the characters and don't come off dopey . There are also scenes with silences , something the American version seemed afraid to have . I used to think this was a dull and boring film , but it actually held my attention this time out , even when my brother was kibitzing to get me to go shopping with him . If you like these sort of movies and get the chance watch this in Japanese and see it for the first time . ( FYI - the new remasters do not allow toggling between versions because the Japanese versions are usually longer , even by a minute or two than the Americans so you can only see the differences by watching the versions back to back . )
Breaking conventions this is a film that must be seen from start to finish and on its own terms	Mystery with supernatural overtones about a brother and sister who go to sign off on the impending death of their father in a hospital . Complications almost instantly arise ( " We were only suppose to sign papers , not see him " balks the girl ) . While traveling after signing the papers they discover discover an old diary and some pictures , things which tell the story of a serial killer , a killer that may still be operating . I've completely botched that and to be perfectly honest short of reading a straight synopsis there is no way , none , to really describe this film . Its a film that refuses to go in any direction except its own . It plays with reality , refuses to adhere to conventions and tells a story that only completely makes sense when you get to the end of it . . . and in my case its the sort of thing I know I need to see again to get a handle on . I have no idea if I liked it or not . I know that my insistence that the film be a certain something had me working against it . Thats not the way to enjoy this film , its something that you have to let take you where it wants to take you . Can I recommend it ? Certainly if you're willing to let it go and do . I do like bits of it , and there are bits I'm not crazy about , but at the same time any film that makes me want to watch it again ( even if its to work out what I just saw ) is worth a shot .
Interesting time capsule look at anti-communist propaganda . Its a political argument and warning in documentary form and not drama in the conventional sense	How do you rate this movie correctly ? I don't know if its possible since this is not really a real movie so much as anti-communist anti-atheist propaganda of a most extreme nature . Basil Rathbone is one of two " few " survivors . He is lecturing to Mary Murphy about the history and evils of communism . Set in an nether world where Rathbone stands at a lectern upon which a large book rests he talks and shows ( in some really grizzly documentary footage ) all of the terrible things that the commies have done . He says he is preparing her for what is to come , so that she can keep her eyes open and not break down . They discuss the godless communist threat and speak of her role as mother and Saviour . Allegory ? Science fiction ? Psycho drama ( in both senses of the term ) ? Your guess is as good as mine . Clearly this film's time has come and gone since the communist " threat " as been replaced by other " threats " in our world . This film is also extremely sexist with the role of the woman reduced to that of breeder and mother . The film makes clear that the role of the woman is to raise kids and suffer as a result ( amazingly the film also acknowledges that she can do more but that society and " god " demands that she do only that ) Watching it now is a rather quaint experience . We really thought like this back in the 1960's , and for good reason , we really were on the brink of nuclear war thanks to things like the Cuban Missile Crisis . The urgency bleeds off the screen . Its not really possible to watch this movie as anything other than a historical document . Its not a narrative movie its a documentary with some very pointed commentary and political orientation . You can't watch this for entertainment like you would a comedy or drama , you have to look at it in terms of history and nostalgia . The performances of both Rathbone and Murphy are suitably intense for this sort of film . Rathbone is a scary authority figure while Murphy is a warm and loving woman , perfectly modulated for getting the point across . I liked it for what it is , anti-communist anti-atheist propaganda from a time now gone . If you watch it with that in mind you'll probably enjoy the experience . However if you watch it expecting a real movie with a plot instead of a political and social argument then you'll be bored silly . for the nostalgia factor .
Amusing	Amusing Adam Sandler movie is a shift away from the serious films he's done of late back to the silliness of old . Actually not completely since the film is essentially a plea for everyone to get along . Zohan is an Israeli counter terrorist that is above all others . Tired of killing people he want to come to America to cut hair , a feeling made stronger when his arch rival whom he finally caught The terrorist named the Phantom , is revealed to have been traded for a low level spy and a spy to be named later . Faking his own death Zohan heads to America to live out his dream . Far from taxing this is an amusing , often low brow movie that is perfect for a rainy Sunday afternoon . The rapid fire jokes are more hit then miss which is a real plus . To be certain some of the film is stupid , but at the same time its good natured and forgivable . If there is any real flaw its the over use of the " I'm tired of fighting , can't we all get along " mantra . I appreciate the sentiment but at the same time by the second half I was full of the milk of human kindness and just wished that someone would do something funny . Definitely worth a look at some point , its one of the better Adam Sandler films .
Good but it plays like an Edgar Wallace greatest hits film .	A priest arriving by train to London collapses while having an orange soda . A doctor appears and says that the man is in having a heart attack and gives him a shot before trying to lift a key , which the police confiscate . The priest dies and the doctor disappears . It transpires that the doctor was carrying one of the keys that tie into a fortune that a soon to be 21 year old Lord is going to be inheriting . It also seems that someone is trying to kill the keepers of the keys in order to get the fortune for themselves . Remake of an earlier film , with both based upon an Edgar Wallace story . This is a good film , but its also a clichéd Edgar Wallace story with everything you'd expect going on-seemingly random murder , a hidden fortune , feuding heirs , lots of red herrings , an old manor house , stalwart police . If you've seen any of the German Wallace films this is going to play like a greatest hits film of sorts . Its not bad , actually its quite good , its just that there isn't anything to make it stand out from the rest of the films in the series so instead of being one of the best it falls down to being one of many . Unremarkable nature of the plot aside this is still a film thats worth seeing because it is very good .
Better than the title " Playgirls and the Vampire "	Five show girls , their manager and his assistant end up at a secluded castle when they are forced to take a detour when the road is washed out . At the castle they are warned to stay in their rooms during the night , but one of the girls wanders out and falls to her death . Meanwhile one of the other other girls , who look is exactly like an ancestor , is wooed by the Count who owns the place . She is rightly confused when a more demonic twin of the Count shows up and tries to do her harm . Notorious horror film was once shown at adults only screenings because of the hints of female flesh , but is now quite tame . A good little Euro shocker this is quite better than its reputation and its lurid title suggest thanks to some good performances and the fantastic black and white photography which sets the mood early . Its the sort of horror movie that would be perfect on a dark and stormy movie night on the couch .
Good but not that good comedy doesn't hit its stride until the last half hour	The story of Remy a rat with a unique sense of taste and smell who wants nothing more than to cook . Ending up in Paris at the restaurant run by his idol Remy links up with a garbage boy named Linguini in the quest for culinary greatness . Sue me I'm not in love with this film . Certainly the voice cast is great with a wonderful turn by Peter O'Toole and another by Ian Holm , and the animation pushes American animation farther than its gone before but the story was too unfocused and too much of been there done that . I'm a heathen I know but while I was watching this all I could think of was where I had seen this before from Looney Tunes to Pinky and The Brain to Peter Greenaway to Fantasia 2000 to Iron Giant to I don't know how many other films that seem to have been cribbed from . I don't mind borrowing but please don't give me the time to notice all of the riffs as I'm watching the movie . Clearly I've seen way too many movies for my own good since so much of this film seems borrowed . Its doesn't help that to me the film is unfocused for much of its running time . Once the film gets set in motion and Remy is introduced the film sort of staggers about trying to find its footing . There is no real conflict of consequence until the final half hour . Certainly there is the question of whether Remy and Linguini will make a team , but its not much of a threat since you know how it will have to play out , and the same can be said for Ian Holm's Skinner who is such a non threat that they have to add in a couple of out of left field plot twists just to keep things going ( The letter from Linguini's mother and all that follows ) . Its not until Peter O'Toole's food critic resurfaces in the final reels that the film really begins to fire on all cylinders . This isn't to say its a bad film , it not , its just not the spectacular one that everyone sees in its animated frames . There are some great set pieces , the escape from the farm is wonderful for example , that are wonderfully animated pieces of art . And with out a doubt the final sequences as Remmy and Linguini have to come up with a plan to over come the " evil " O'Toole are some of Brad Birds best work , but it comes at the end of a long meandering journey , which both lifts whats gone before and diminishes whats there . I like the film , probably more than I realize ( hence the rating ) but I'm not in love with it .
A head trip pulp science fiction film about ideas-its not what you think it is	Francis Ford Coppola returns to completing his own films for the first time in 10 years ( he's been working on Megalopolis which he's more or less abandoned and done some re-shoots for friends ) . He's made a film that is probably best described as philosophical pulp . Its based on a deeply philosophical Romanian novella that has haunted him for much of the last ten years . The plot an aged scholar turning 70 and feeling he has been a failure . Deciding to go to the big city and commit suicide he is struck by lightning not long after arriving and while he is recovering from his injuries it is discovered that he is in fact now seemingly half his age . Its 1938 and during his recovery the Nazi's invade and they take a very keen interest in his condition causing him to flee . Recounting the plot further ( the Nazi bit is more a catalyst then the point since the film covers over 30 years from the point of the lightning strike . ) would be foolish since odds are it will leave you incredulous ( its very mystical and plays at times like a pulp novel with a great deal on its mind ) not to mention give you a false sense of what is really going on . This is a movie that has a definite direction in which it is going and odds are you will not completely see most of it coming . The best thing to do is just buckle up and let the film take you where its going to go . And lets face it this is the sort of story that with slight revision would have fit very nicely in an old copy of Weird Tales . The driving force is very much like a pulp story from the 1930's or 40's . Its very heady stuff . Reincarnation , personality , the question of what is a successful life , the nature of love , language , atomic war , the evolution of man , what would you do with a second chance , are among the many questions raised by this film . The plot is not constructed to be just a ripping story , but rather a means to the examination of the ideas that Coppola is tossing about . Coppola has hung a great many ideas and notions on his narrative threads and he's done so in such away that in order to navigate through the maze the threads form you will have to deal with the laundry hanging from them . Its this juggling of ideas in a pulp frame work that has been the bane of this film . I know that many people don't know what Coppola was getting at , I'm not entirely sure myself . The plot seems almost silly , its almost like Stephen Kings Golden Years but spiced up with almost too many ideas . No doubt its confused people who were looking for another Godfather , Bram Stokers Dracula , The Rainmaker or any other Coppola film . Its not something that an American filmmaker would make , certainly not one of Coppola's pedigree . Then again I would argue it is . the film is very much a European film . It looks and feels like a film that belongs in the line up of a European director . There is nothing typically American in the film at all . It feels alien when compared to most American films . Though if you look at the scenes in Italy in the Godfather , or even the first two Godfather films in total , this film fits neatly into how the earlier films feel visually . There is a lyric beauty and sense of place and time that is rare in films . there is a poetry . Its a film you will have to think about . You have to be willing to let the film go and do what ever it wants to . Certainly one can easily dismiss it as not meeting your expectations , but doing so will cause you to miss out on a film that will get your little gray cells going . Is it a perfect film . No . I like the film and think its a good film . I think its a grasp exceeds its reach . To be perfectly honest somewhere in the last 20 minutes the film shifts gears and goes into a coda ( Coppola's words in the commentary ) that ends the film . Its here I think that the film falters since I don't think the ending really works . No doubt its what the end of the original story is ( in the commentary Coppola talks about what he had to do to make it work on screen ) but its something that didn't translate to the screen well . I was left wondering what it all was about in total . Don't get me wrong I didn't hate it , but I just felt out of sorts and desirous of a second viewing where all of the bits through the film might come together . Perhaps thats the best thing I can say about the film , its not a film one should dismiss until one has had a chance to see the film twice since there are too many pieces that don't connect up until the very end . Worth a look for those willing to work with the film , those will expectations go and for those that like head trips . 7ish out of 10
Charming screwball comedy suffers only in that it has too much going on	Screwball comedy directed by Norman Z McLeod the man behind several Marx Brothers and WC Fields films is pure silliness . The plot has a family of semi-crazies taking on a man they think is a hobo to be their chauffeur . He is actually a writer of some renowned . As he navigates the waters of the familial home romance and madness blossom . I stumbled upon this on Turner Classic Movies and was amused from the very start . Very much akin to My Man Godfrey this film takes things into territory that one would expect from the under appreciated McLeod who always managed to produce a unique form of madness akin to the Warner Brother Cartoons . There are some wonderful set pieces such as the much too late arrivals of everyone in the family , each not wanting to wake the rest of the house , or the fainting at the end both of which produce genuine laughter . Its a pleasure to be hold . I love that the film is populated with a bunch of great characters that you care about and stick with you after the movie ends . This is a wonderful and unsung and seemingly rarely seen movie . If I have any complaints its perhaps that the film has too many things going on at once . This is a film that easily could have gone for twice its length and not felt forced ( a rarity with comedies ) . This is a movie to keep an eye out for . Turner Classic movies would be well served to get this into the rotation more frequently or better yet to simply get it out on DVD so everyone can enjoy it .
bloody comedy is a great deal of fun if you can stand the gore and click into its goofy wavelength	Thai comedy can be painfully funny . There is often a sense that anything goes so long as it gets a laugh , the result is wild crazy out of left field quality that is totally endearing . A perfect example of this is this movie . The plot has a mutation of the Sars virus that turns people into flesh eating zombies getting loose in an apartment complex in Bangkok . The zombies present complications for a kidnapped girl and her rescuers who are trying to flee the building . Bloody , over the top and very silly this is the sort of knowing comedy that more often than not fails to work in other films . Here the balance between blood and laughs if finely balanced , or at least piled on so thick that there is enough good stuff with the bad that you can't help but find something to laugh at . From references to the George Romero zombie films , Star Wars to martial arts spectaculars and Italian horror films this is a movie that steals from the best and puts it all together into a gumbo of entertaining proportions . Its not perfect , there's often too much going on , and the filmmakers don't always feel the need to have the film make sense , but its an enjoyable romp for those who can take the blood and body parts .
What would happen if the dead did come back	This is NOT a horror film . When a decades long missing boy returns to his mother a ministry official is sent to investigate . Soon more dead people begin to return to their loved ones . What is the nature of longing , of human needs and of mourning . What would you do if that person you've missed finally came back ? These are some of the questions that this intriguing movie raises . Sentimental . touching . heartwarming , harrowing , contrived and yet completely and almost compulsively watchable . Think of it as something similar to Field of Dreams but not just for guys , or going into that purely sentimental direction . This is a one of a kind film that really should be seen
Grandfather of all horror comedies	This is the stereotypical old dark house movie , all the relatives come to and old dark house and some one begins to kill them , or tries to . This has been remade several times , each version having its flaws and its strengths . This is the first version , and while I would like to say its the best , I can't since the silent medium has rendered its pace a bit too slow for modern audiences . This isn't to say that its a bad film . Its not . Anyone interested in film and what can be done with it should see this film because the first half of this movie is a treasure trove of cinema techniques . The first half is also a damn good movie as well since it wonderfully sets everything up . Only as things begin to follow there course does the pacing slow . Its far from bad , it just may have you look at your watch now and again . I give it , not perfect but watchable .
Euro-sleaze film is much better than its should be ( though I doubt you'll ever find it in English )	In these " enlightened times " I'm hard pressed to know if one should admit to having seen this movie , but considering that its actually a pretty good erotic sleaze film , I'll happily say I saw it . The plot is told mostly in flashback . It begins with a young girl seeing her mom have ( simulated ) sex with a dog . Dad comes home drags mom and the girl away and then sets fire to the house with the dog inside . The film then jumps forward as we watch a man waiting for something . The story then flashes back as we see the man and his wife arrive at an island full of party people . Periodically the man and woman catch sight of a young woman with a dog . The woman looks like a younger version of the woman at the start . I'll leave it for adventurous film goers to unravel what happens next , though I will say while its often sexy it all ends badly . Despite this film being in Italian , a language I don't speak , I rather enjoyed this movie . Sure its sleazy but at the same time it seems to be a well done drama with an " off-beat " edge . I had no problems following the plot . I liked that after the opening you were very much of balance wondering what sort of madness was going to show up . Granted its a cheap trick but it did help to keep things properly tense . Obviously this is NOT for all tastes . I think most people will have shut it off during the opening credits . If you can get past them and don't mind sleazy sexy drama I think you'll enjoy this , on some level , if you're open to it . . . . . . Just don't look for an English version of this film . I can't imagine anyone being bold enough to attempt to release this in either England or the US , its opening is just a bit too much for most people .
Very good horror animated film who's only flaw is some of the animation isn't up to snuff	Animated Resident Evil story set at an airport in Harvardville after the destruction of Raccoon City . As politician s argue with big business about chemicals that turned people into zombies , the dead return and begin to eat people . Very good animated horror film suffers from its video game style animation . Yes this is the sort of thing that you watch during the film versions of many video games , and its fine during the three , four or five minutes that the animation bridges between game play segments . But here it distracts from what we are seeing . I kept waiting to take over control and begin shooting zombies . Its a minor thing , but its the sort of thing that keeps the film from being truly great . Those reservations aside I recommend this for anyone who wants to see a good zombie action movie .
Good but Not Great	I had heard that this film and its in name only prequel were suppose to be some of the best of the of the Hong Kong Horror films . I very much liked the first film in a goofy gory sort of way , while this one just didn't grab me . I mean that almost literally since after about the first five or ten minutes I became distracted , not a good sign , and began to do other things while this un-spooled . Certainly its better than many horror films from the period , but at the same time , its just not as good as its reputation suggests . I suggest you try it , its not bad , just not the be all and end all , but if possible have the first film with it as a double feature . . ( I will try it again at some point simply because it maybe a case of being over-sold before going in . )
Seemingly forgotten serial is better than it should be thanks to neat gadgets and a go for it attitude	Someone is killing off industrialists with a poison that is similar to the poison of a black widow . The person behind it is the evil Sombra , a woman who is using her fortune telling business as a front for blackmail and espionage . The Clarion Newspaper assigns one of its reporters to follow a well known mystery writer , Steve Colt , that they have hired to solve the crimes . Almost instantly the intrepid pair unknowingly stumbles upon the villainess and her band and 12 chapters of action follow as the bad guys try to stay away from the good guys . Mostly unknown serial is an enjoyable romp thanks to Republic caring enough not to completely do things by the book . Instead of the usual tricks and traps that Republic's serial makers would lapse into in the name of saving a few pennies you have things like the chair of death where a spider like device comes out of the back to stink you to death , or cars that change color with the flip of a dial . It's the equivalent to a really good B-movie that you stumble upon late at night that is completely gripping even though its something you've never heard of . ( Regrettably this serial is also as forgettable in the same way its good but it doesn't linger in the brain as anything other than a vague memory - a " yea I saw that " until you put it on again and you realize how good it was ) . Recommended .
The story of the men who fought in the Huertgen Forest .	Very good documentary hosted by both Tom Brokaw and Walter Cronkite about the coming together of soldiers , both American and German who fought against each other in the Huertgen Forest . Watching the men try to catch up after 50 years and try to explain and make sense of what happened is both touching and sad . The fighting was bad that one soldier could never have a Christmas tree because the smell of the tree reminded him of the battle . Its a trip . Its also one of the rare films that have sprung up in the last ten years or so where soldiers play witness , that doesn't seem clichéd . Its not just talking heads . Somehow it manages to be more . Worth a look see .
Direct sequel to Mad Doctor of Blood Island is much better if seen as part of a double feature program with the first film	This the direct sequel to Mad Doctor of Blood Island . Its the fourth ( or third if you don't count the unrelated Terror is a Man ) in the Blood Island saga . Literally picking up hours after the first film , the film begins on the boat sailing away from Blood Island . As John Ashley waxes poetic about his time on the island fighting monsters the man beast from the first film appears ( he was seen to have secreted himself in a lifeboat at the end of Mad Doctor ) and a battle occurs which destroys the ship and leaves Ashley as the only survivor . A year or so later Ashley heads back to Blood Island to investigate stories that weird things have begun to happen again despite the death of the evil Dr Lorca . On the island Ashley finds that many people he believed dead survived the final battle of the first film and that some how the " green men " have returned . It isn't long before its realized that Dr Lorca is back and up to his old tricks . Finally watching this in close proximity to Mad Doctor I found that the film plays much better than it does as a stand alone film . I was never a big fan of this film prior to the back to back viewing because I always felt that it was missing something . What it was missing was the set up that the first film gives it . If you watch the two films together I think you'll find it a better film than when it's viewed all alone . A sequel it is , but its not as scary ( nor as gory nor as titillating ) . Sure there are some horrifying moments , but on some level this is more an adventure / mystery film than a real horror movie . The man-beast is effectively off camera for most of the film following the opening battle ( I have to say the make up here is infinitely better than in Mad Doctor ) . Some of Lorca's victims do cause mayhem , but the majority of the film concerns trying to find Lorca and the kidnapped reporter . Its not bad , but if you are expecting a straight horror film you may end up very disappointed , despite a great monster . What can I say , I took it on its own terms and I liked it , high art its not . Definitely worth seeing especially as part of a double feature with Mad Doctor of Blood Island .
Adults only retelling of the Lewis Carroll tale is a great deal of fun	Adult version of the classic Lewis Carroll tale is much better than you might expect . Here Alice is a virginal librarian who falls down the rabbit hole and learns to love sex and her own self image . Made at the time when adult films were creative endeavors with plots instead of just a series of sex scenes , this is a good looking little movie more akin to the low budget films of its day . Despite what you may think this film actually has a good script with funny jokes and good songs . Its an naughty little tale for adults . If you're wondering whether or not my recommendation is a good one or not consider that the film was pretty much only available in its non-hardcore version for the better part of the last three decades simply because the film stands up with out the sex , which is how I first saw the film years ago on cable TV . The relatively recent home video release on DVD put back the sex ( in horribly grainy inserted clips ) which makes it clear the removal of the shots was the best choice all around . If you're an open minded adult with a taste for something spicy I can heartily recommend this little film as a nice diversion .
I liked it I can't say more than that	Simon Pegg plays a rude crude and often out of control celebrity journalist who is brought from England to work for a big American magazine . Of course his winning ways create all sorts of complications . Amusing fact based comedy that co stars Kristen Dunst ( looking rather grown up ) , Danny Huston , and Jeff Bridges . It works primarily because we like Simon Pegg despite his bad behavior . We completely understand why Kristen Dunst continues to talk to him despite his frequent screw ups . I liked the film . Its not the be all and end all but it was a nice way to cap off an evening of sitting on the couch watching movies .
Good but not as good as the hype	Much hyped winner of Cannes , and center of a firestorm concerning the wonky way the Oscars pick their foreign language nominees , this film was carrying a great deal of baggage with it when I sat down to watch it on IFC in Theaters on demand service on cable . The story of the film is simple , two young women , one of whom is pregnant , go to a hotel to get an abortion . Its 1980's Romania and abortion is simply not done . The film looks at the plight of the women , their place in Romanian society as well as the relationship of the two friends . To be honest the hype surrounding the film did affect my view of the film . I did go into the film with the attitude " Okay hit me with the best film of the year " . I came out liking the film but not loving it . Certainly I don't think its the best film of the year . I don't know if I would put near the top of the heap either . Don't get me wrong , its not a bad film , I just didn't connect to it the way that audiences and critics have around the world . Told in a long takes , often with long silences this is a film that puts you there in the hotel with these women . We are a silent conspirator of sorts to the events that transpire . The effect is to draw us into things in a way that might not otherwise be possible . Tension is generated because things happen in " real " time . There are no cutaways just us and the ladies on screen . I do like the film and think it is very good . I just never fully connected to it . Partly I know that I am a man and the pain and uncomfortable nature of the situation that would be present had I been a woman isn't there . Had I been a woman I'm guessing this film would have been devastating to sit through I am also largely ignorant of the social situation of the " classless " Romania . I can intellectualize what its like but I never fully connect to it . For what ever reason it is outside my realm of understanding . There is one other possible problem with the film not effecting me , and that is I was accidentally told something about the end of the film that allowed me to almost know too much going in . In a weird way , between the accidental slip of the tongue and a few pieces on the film , I felt as though I was seeing it for a second time . It is possible to know too much about the film since had I not heard and seen things my attitude would have been different . Definitely worth seeing . Its very good but not the be all and end all . 7 .
First film by a grind house superstar is possibly better than everything else that followed simply because it was closest to his heart	Milligan's first film is possibly his best . Certainly its one of the few where the technical limitations of his equipment didn't hurt the film ( Andy used basically one camera with one lens which could make things cramped ) The plot has the meeting of two men in a gay bath house and talking . Very little happens other than other men come and go and you sense the longing and the need to connect to someone like yourself . One of the first films graphically ( well for the time ) deal with homosexuality as something real and not monstrous this film rattled cages . Very much an independent film , low budget art film this is very different than almost anything else that Milligan did ( at least that survives ) . There is a rawness and a realness that shines through so that even though we know its artificial we can sense the reality behind it . Clearly not for all tastes this is an interesting look for those who like Milligans drek , to see where he started , and its an interesting side note for theater buffs to see one of the footnote founders of off Broadway went off theater .
Good crime drama	Dirty Harry like cop investigates the murder of a fellow cop and beats up and kills a good number of bad guys in the process . Violent police drama keeps your attention focused thanks to an almost constant stream of beatings and shootings . Not the best film and certainly far from the worst , this is just a good solid action film for a rainy Sunday without the kids . The best thing is this is a regular in bargain bins for around a buck which , as entertainment goes is quite a bargain for a film as good as this . Go get some popcorn and some sodas .
Good Edgar Wallace adaption is more " romantic mystery " than straight mystery with a bit of suspense getting lost in the verbal sparring of the leads	Inspector Pemberton is called to a Lord's house in order to investigate a missing cigarette case . There he meets the Lord's secretary named Kate who the Lord's daughter thinks stole the case . Smitten , Pemberton ponders how he can meet her again , only to find out that she is actually Kate Westhanger , the leader of a band of thieves . Going around to her hide out Pemeberton attempts to " woo " the girl and get her to go straight , however when that fails he challenges her to a contest , promising to prevent whatever the job is she is working on . Thus begins a game of cat and mouse as Pemberton and Kate crack wise while trying very hard to win their bet . A typical Edgar Wallace based film in that its actually a romantic comedy / mystery more than a straight mystery . The repartee between the leads is very good and often on par with the best American films and had anyone had the inclination this might have turned into a neat little British Thin Man series . To be honest he mystery itself is much too complicated for a 75 minute movie ( the print I saw was a bit choppy in spots and is clearly missing a few minutes ) . Certainly there are simply too many characters with most of Kate's ten man gang fading into the background . The result of too much plot and too many characters is that the film as a whole bogs down at times . The film is never bad , it just doesn't remain at the same level as the romantic rivalry . Flaws aside this is a really good film . Its the perfect thing to be part of a rainy night on the couch watching movies . ( It would actually make a nice double feature with the Gaunt Stranger another Wallace adaptation ) over all . better in spots
Good Popcorn Movie	Completely unbelievable but fun romp around the world looking for treasure . . . it won't win any awards but its a good two hours at the movies . The plot to trying to find a lost treasure a clue to which is on the back of the Declaration of Independence is so beyond belief that its best to simply begin by throwing up your hands and accepting it for what it is . Certainly the cast has thrown reality to the wind and appears to be having a grand time . My only complaint , and its what keeps me from saying you you should see this in a theater instead of renting it , is that the pacing is off . It needs a zipper pace to get us from A to B . Certainly it moves well , but there were times when I just wanted to to move a bit faster . Its a minor fault , but one that prevented me from really loving this . . Definitely worth seeing , preferably for less than what they charge for a full price movie admission these days .
British send up of WW2 films is a tad slow to start but is a funny feel good movie	Oh boy , Disney has their hands full with this one . . . a British animated and voiced film about World War Two with death , destruction and rude jokes . Oh , lets hope they don't cut the living hell out of this thing . This is the story of Valiant , a smaller than normal pigeon , who wants to join up with the Royal Carrier Pigeon Service . With the help of Bugsy , a con artist pigeon he accidentally saves , he manages to trick his way into the service . Training has barely begun when they are rushed off to France to bring back an important message . There Valiant , Bugsy and his squad come face to face with the evil falcon's who'd like nothing better than to make them lunch . A brief 75 minutes long ( reports of 109 minutes must be wrong ) this is a good send up of World War Two conventions . We have hateful Nazi falcons ( the leader is played evilly by Tim Curry ) ; the do or die mission ; Mom's tearful goodbye ; Edith Piaf on the gramophone , French resistance , balmy Brits ( two of which are John Cleese and John Hurt ) ; heroic sacrifice and on and on and on . The voice cast is excellent and any Anglophiles out there will want to see this for the great voice cast which includes Ewan McGregor as Valiant , who is a wonderful hero , Ricky Gervais as Bugsy who is hysterical as the slob friend , and then add in Hugh Laurie , Jim Broadbent , Curry , Cleese , Hurt and many others others bringing life to the birds on screen . The whole cast is fun to listen to . The humor is a wide net of British style humor from puns to fart jokes to clever spoof to just about anything . In its way its completely different than any typical American ( ie . Disney , Pixar , Dreamworks ) film . Its not broad American humor , its quiet British humor with slips into slapstick . Its a Britcom versus sitcom . Technically this film is a marvel with stuff that will put Disney to shame , and make Pixar and Dreamworks work harder . There are some beautifully rendered sequences , in particular the numerous action scenes . WOW . The problem here is the pacing which is a tad slow . It un-spools like a British World War Two film from the period . Its not bad but it might prove taxing to American audiences who are used to faster paced comedy . However once they go to France on the mission it picks up nicely with chase after chase . A friend asked if it was similar to Chicken Run , sort of . Both are Britsh war spoofs , but the style of humor is different and you don't have Mel Gibson bending it in the direction of American nonsense . Chicken Run is probably better but its hard to say fairly since I need to see Valiant again . Certainly not the be all and end all I do recommend it , especially if you like British style humor .
For get the reputation and overtones to the Occupation , this is just a good thriller	Henri-Georges Clouzot's tale of the trouble an unending series of poison pen letters causes in a small village is a solid little thriller . The tale of letters signed Le Corbeau revealing all the well hidden secrets of a country village has been hailed as a great classic , I'm not sure I would go that far , but it is a good thriller . I think the fact that the film was made in occupied France and was reviled by both the occupiers and the occupied , not to mention its banning after the war , has inflated its reputation needlessly . Its a good film , certainly it has been rightly called one of the first film noirs , but I can't say thats its much more than that . I think its importance past entertainment has been overstated ( especially in retrospect ) . for me its a good little mystery , anything else is hyperbole . Worth a look for those looking for a good thriller .
In 3D this is a trip to a place you've never been and worth seeing ( in 2D its not quite that )	The plot is a simple one . On an alien world an alien invasion force comes and tries to take over . The aliens are humans who need to terraform the planet for it to be of any use to us . One alien with an incredible ability to build things ends up rescuing a downed human pilot and a bond is begrudgingly formed , that is threatened by an evil earth general . You know the drill . Its a well worn tale that plays okay in 2D . In 3D its another matter . There really is a difference between 3D and 2D with Battle for Terra . The difference between the two ways of viewing the film is vast , greater than with any other 3D film I've seen and there have been a lot . For the first time here is a 3D film who's use of depth has a purpose-it puts you into a world you could never go to . Yes I know I said there is a difference between the 3D and 2D of a good number of films - Beowulf for example , since the 3D in Beowulf made the film a thrill ride . It didn't enhance what was and is a really horrible story . Here the film gets better , yes it makes things better because it gives weight to the events . The characters suddenly become realer . There are no items popping out at you but the film doesn't need it , its not that sort of film . This is a film that puts you into its world . One of the most amazing things in the film is the climatic battle which knocked my socks off in 3D . You've seen space battles in any number of films including the star wars films but here it is in 3D . Amazing . ( George Lucas is rejiggering the Star Wars films in 3D but I doubt the battles will improve them enough to make them any more gee whiz than this films battles ) The writing is not a well worn as the basic plot . Other than Brian Cox's villain things are not entirely clear cut as to characters . People change and shift . The plot also deals with some dark ideas . Frankly there are a couple of twists that I was shocked that the filmmakers had the guts to include in " a children's film " . Its not a children's film . There is death and destruction and I am glad that the film doesn't shy away from it . Actually one of the plot points is the devastation of war . There is some adult writing here and assumption that the audience isn't stupid which is a welcome relief . If you can see the film in 3D I highly recommend you do so . Its a very different case then seeing it flat . Flat this is just another space opera , in 3D its an affecting tale of alien species colliding . Its a trip to a place you've never been . in 3D Around 5 or 6ish out of 10 in 2
One of the Jess Franco films	Proof Jess Franco can make a movie . I shouldn't say it like that since I'm a fan , of sorts , and Franco can make a good film usually after a long run of ones that make you scream otherwise ( One need look at most of his recent shot on video stuff to wonder how he keeps getting money to make movies ) . Beautifully shot in black and white this is the story of a woman who wants to get revenge for the death of her father , a doctor involved with mind control experiments . Filled with odd images that never seem distracting or out of place this is a film that drifts through the surreal and has it make perfect sense . ( The spider motifs ) . Its an odd mad scientist revenge thriller that is somehow hypnotic as the twists and turns of the plot walk the fine line between real and unreal ( killer nails ? ) . Its a very good euro-horror of the type that was being cranked out during the mid 1960's . Its also a film that perfectly fits the over used slogan " if you see one movie . . . " which in this case would be " If you see one movie by Jess Franco see this one . " Between 6 and
Clichéd but often spectacular tale of pilots during the First World War	A good but unremarkable story of the Lafayette Escadrille in World War One . This is the story of a bunch of men who volunteered to fly for the French prior to the American entry into the war . Its the usual cross section of guys , most on the run from something who learn to come together in the skies of France . What can I say I liked it . Its not anything remotely like brain surgery , just the story of some guys living and dying during war time . The performances are fine and the action is exciting , though I'm really getting tired of everything being done by computers . I know its cheaper but I never really accepted that anyone was really flying because I knew that it was all make believe , spectacular make believe , but make believe none the less . If the film has any real flaw is that its a bit too long for what it is . Running close to two and a half hours this movie could easily be trimmed down . Length or no , this is a good movie for a slow Sunday afternoon . It probably won't win any awards but it will keep you entertained . ( There have been some complaints that the film lifts sequences from Howard Hughes Hell's Angels . I think it probably does , but I don't think that its fair to complain about it since George Lucas did the exact same thing in his Star Wars films and no one said a word )
Disturbing tale of a man looking for his lost love is good , but very graphic horror tale that will shock some sensibilities	An American looking for a lost love in Japan ends up on an island full of whores . Unable to find his love he spends the night with a woman who begins to tell him of her life , and of his lost love . ( I'm going to leave it at that since the way the story is told and its structure as a series of retold tales , or as a retold tale , will probably be spoiled if I went into any further detail of the plot . Certainly the shock value of some of the images will be lost if you knew what was happening . ) It's clear why Showtime balked at showing this film when it first aired the Masters of Horror series . It is disturbing and horrifying in ways that most American films dare not be . It is a slowly building tale that begins with words and then slowly builds with inference and implication before becoming more and more graphic . It pushes buttons that for many people should not be pushed or even gotten near . The horror and terror we felt is almost divorced from the plot , arising out of director Takashi Miike's decision to show us what would , in most films , never be shown . They are for the most part a horror of a bleak life choice on the edge of hell . As a tale of visceral horror its an incredible achievement . The problem for me is that the film is very uneven . Once the stories begin to be told and retold and we get a sense of what exactly happened and is going on ( more or less ) the film begins to fragment and its internal logic begins to falter , the plotting doesn't have a great deal to show past a certain point so that the end seems to almost be an after thought , the denouncement is nothing special . And there is a nagging suspicion that with out the visuals there isn't much to the story . Still I liked this a great deal , but I didn't love it . It is not for all people and anyone with a weak constitution need not bother viewing it . For fans of Takashi Miike its must see viewing . For everyone else its a personal choice .
Strange off shoot of Laugh-in is sporadically funny	This is essentially an updated Abbott and Costello film for 1969 with Rowan and Martin standing in for Bud and Lou . The plot has the boys wandering around a " haunted " house looking for hidden jewels while trying to remain alive and avoid " werewolves " and " vampires " . Its a weird mix of comedy horror and mystery put together in a psychedelic blender . Its very much of the time , and of Laugh-In with the brand of humor that was a huge hit on TV interlaced into a murder mystery . Forgive me I have no idea how to explain this movie except that its a bunch of very good actors being very silly , I mean where else can you see Fritz Weaver channeling Bela Lugosi for giggles ? The humor is uneven , with some of the jokes dating badly to the point that unless you lived in 1969 you won't get the joke . Its an odd film . I don't know if I can really recommend it , though if you like Laugh-In you stand a good shot at enjoying this 90 minute fluff ball . ( though I do have to point out I grew to dislike Dan Rowan's character a great deal since he was much too mean spirited and sleazy for my tastes )
The story of Bobby Sands is well made but a bit distanced	Steve McQueen's film of the events around the hunger strike that took the life of Bobby Sands and others . Well made and harrowing this is a film I admired more than I liked . A film you have to watch , most of the film seems to be visual , you watch the characters in their cell , with friends who visit , being beaten by the guards , sitting and talking and finally starving to death . Its all well and good to hear about being on a hunger strike or protesting in prison , but its another thing to see it . You are there in long sequences , often static shots , you are put into the prison with the men who wanted a little human dignity . And yet I never really connected with anyone . Certainly there is the long central section , essentially a single take of two people talking that puts a great deal in perspective . But outside of that I never really felt for anyone , on either side . The documentary like approach keeps us distanced . Yes the close up of Sands ' body drives home how uneasy death by starvation is , and I felt for as I would any human being , but at the same time I never felt the movie explained why he mattered and what he did mattered . I know of course why from having watched the events unfold on the TV news night after night , but I didn't leave with any greater understanding beyond that which I had going in . Its that final connection that prevented me from saying this very good and very troubling film was a great film . Perhaps seeing this on TV , I saw it as part of the IFC in Theaters cable service , diminished its power , perhaps not . Reservations aside , I do recommend it for those wanting to see what it was like .
The pieces are better than the whole in the first film in color ( and in some ways key to all films that follow ) by Akira Kurasowa	The title is the sound that one of the characters makes as he drives his imaginary trolley across the garbage dump where the characters live . The film is based on a series of stories by Shugoro Yamamoto and tells the story of a group of people who effectively live in ramshackle homes on the edge of the dump . It's a mix of laughter and sadness . First color film made by Akria Kurasowa has been something I've wanted to see for a long time . Weirdly it was often listed as being only available in a shortened version from a three or four hour original due to an error in the run time in some promotional material . I was holding out for the full version , waiting to see what Kurasowa wanted us to see , only to find out on the recent release by Criterion that the 140 minute version is the full version . Finally sitting down to see the film last night I'm of mixed emotions about the film . First and foremost its visually linked to every film that followed . You can see every other of Kurasowals remaining six films reflected in this movie , down to the painted sunsets . Its a striking film in its use of color and you can understand why it took him so long to a film stock he would he happy with ( of course there are failed projects as well ) . The film is a visual work of art . ( Though be warned if you're going to see this on your widescreen TV this was shot 1 . 33 so will appear in normal TV ratio . ) The rest of the film is a mixed bag . Part of the problem is that the lives of all of these people don't quite come together . As separate tales they all work well but as a filmic whole they don't hang as one . I don't blame Kurasowa since one can't always hit things out of the box , especially when some one like Robert Altman who specialized in multi-character films of this sort occasionally bombed himself . This isn't to say that there aren't reasons to see the film . As will all Kurasowa films there are always reasons to see his films , whether they work or not . The first trip of the " trolley " is one of the best things Kurasowa ever did and is worth the price of a rental . Its one of the most magical moments in film history as the trolley is inspected and taken out . The father and son living in the car is touching ( though ultimately very sad ) and there are other bits and pieces that shine ( like the cast which is across the board great ) and one should at least try the film as something different from a man we usually associated with samurai films or crime dramas . Its an intriguing misfire from a master filmmaker which means in this case means its better than most other filmmakers successes . Between 6 and 7 as a whole , much higher in pieces .
Dark thriller is a bit creaky but the perfect thing for a dark and stormy night	George Zucco plays two brothers , one good , one evil . One is dead and one is undead . Good brother George killed bad brother George because he was in league with the devil . The problem is that evil henchman Dwight Frye knows what happens and he resurrected the evil brother in the form of a vampire to take revenge . I really like this movie . Sure the pacing can be slow but any film with George Zucco in it can't be all bad ( actually it can but its usually fun bad ) . This is the creaky old creepy mystery thrillers that they don't make any more with graveyards full of mist , dark shadows and vampires with fake teeth . Its a great deal of fun . Granted if you're not an old movie fan , and need your horror in color and rapidly paced this movie probably isn't for you , but if you're in the mood for a good old horror movie and you're done with the Universal classics you really should give this a try .
For lovers of gore and blood by the gallon this is a neat little film-for anyone else this is going to be something to avoid	Deranged and graphically gory Japanese film about little beings taking people over and turning them into necroborg-zombie like machines - which beat and hack each other apart so that the winner can eat the loser . In the middle of this a pair of lovers become infected . Technically superb horror comedy ( ? ) is only for those with strong stomachs as blood and body parts go flying . Good taste prevents me from describing what happens here , but lets just say its pretty gruesome . If you like this sort of thing with form several steps above slender content by all means see this film . Personally I'm not normally one to enjoy films like this on anything but the how sick and twisted do they go level . Here I was intrigued enough that I can suggest it to people I know who like really gory movies . . Its also a film with enough going on in the details that I want to see it again since now that I know what was going on-as revealed in the end-I want to go back and see what it was I didn't catch on to . There is an internal logic rare in these films . 7ish out of 10 for those who like blood and severed limbs , its a zero or more precisely a run and hide alert for everyone else .
Its aged a bit , but this is still a better than average film about a family trapped by some lions	I'm one of 8 people who saw this in the theater when it played 20 plus years ago . Based on true events of how droughts in Africa were causing the lions to attack people this is the story of one family that ends up trapped in their house with lions outside . Starring Tom Skeritt and Michelle Phillips the film is a small scale but decidedly solid little thriller . Rather bloodlessly graphic there are a few starts in the film and uneasy moments as lions come from places you don't expect . Watching the film from start to finish for the first time in a long while ( I caught some while I was transferring it to DVD ) I found it to be more like a TV movie then a big screen film . However I also found it to be still quite enjoyable . I have no idea why this film has faded from view but its a shame since its a good way to spend 85 minutes . . . and will explain why Santa doesn't show up to your house - a lion came down the chimney and ate him . Worth a look should you ever run across it .
After four great chapters this settles in a routine rhythm that diminishes its greatness to just goodness	Early Universal serial concerns the quest for the two halves of a sacred disc on which is written a formula of great value . Beginning in China during a revolution the the adventure shifts to various locations around the world . To be honest the first four episodes of the this serial are four of the best in serial history . There is a sense of urgency and speed with which things move that keep things moving lively . The first chapters set in the city under siege are amazing , its large scale danger through which the heroes and villains move and its amazing . Unfortunately the need to find the disc and then get out of the city is lost once the story moves on to the jungle where the round and round about nature of the story becomes not much more than spinning wheels . It remains watchable thanks to the great cast , especially John Davidson as the villain . Also helping to keep it watchable is some great location footage thats added in for color . Worth a look .
Rethink of the vampire legend is brooding and atmospheric and recommended for those who don't need a another run of the mill vampire film	Christopher Plummer goes to Venice to investigate the last known appearance of Nosferatu during the Carnival of 1786 . Plummer seems to think that the vampire is searching for a means to put an end to his torment and actually be dead . He stays with a family who legend says , has the vampire trapped in a tomb in the basement . After a séance " the vampire " appears and then it becomes a question of how do you put the evil back into the box . Thats a poor description for a very moody , very good rethink of the vampire legend . In theory this is a modern day sequel to Werner Herzog's remake of the FW Murnau's silent original . However other than the fact that Klaus Kinski plays the vampire the films are pretty much separate films . Here the vampire is a force outside of nature , he goes out during the day , religious objects don't affect him and he has powers beyond those of normal vampires . To be honest this film's idea of vampires and their creation is very different than what is considered " normal " vampire lore . This is a film thats a bit more form over content , but its still weaves a magical spell . Its a very atmospheric haunted Venice story where mood and feeling is all . Its a film designed to make you feel creepy and uneasy and not so much scary in " the jump and scream variety " . It helps that the film rethinks what a vampire is . Going back to folklore where things other than a bite on the neck was required to turn someone undead , this film keeps you off balance since you can't be sure what is real with in the film's world . Adding a great deal to the film are the performances of the excellent cast . Christopher Plummer's vampire hunter is a wonderful man of science who's pronouncements give a weight to the proceedings that would me missing in lesser hands . We believe in whats going on , because he does . Even in the early scenes when there is some doubt as to whats real and what isn't Plummer's intensity keeps things on track . Klaus Kinski as the vampire is a brooding , sad , sexual menace that says very little but wanders through his scenes with a power and intensity lacking in most vampires . Here is an ages old world weary soul who is forced to play peoples stupid games but who really just wants to be loved and most of all to die . The cinematography of this film is extraordinary . Venice is a character in every shot . You get a sense of place and of dread with every picture . This is one of the most beautiful films I've seen , and its fog shrouded vistas of Venice in the morning deserve to be hung on the wall . This is an amazing film , more creepy than scary , but one that is none the less haunting . This is a lost treasure for those who can appreciate horror films as being more than just the traditional sort . 7 . ( for IMDb purposes )
A nice distraction	Follow up to the two earlier films ( yes there are references to both ) is better and more together than the second film but not as good as the first . Its more of the same with a plot ( getting revenge on Pacino for screwing over Elliot Gould ) thats a movie and not an excuse to party off screen . A bit too leisurely for my tastes ( plot threads meander too much before paying off nicely ) , its still a nice distraction . I liked it a great deal though I will say I was ambivalent until the end , which while not a great pay off was really good . If you want to see it either do so on the big screen or wait for the widescreen DVD since this was shot in a glorious widescreen that will lose a great deal on full screen TV See it , it will distract you for 2 hours-you may not ( probably won't ) love it but you will like it a great deal .
Once the ghosts show up this film is a great ride	Three friends who are saluting a dead friend dance in a cemetery and across the grave of three people who's spirits come to haunt them . . . and try to kill them . It takes a while for things to get going but once the monsters show up this movie suddenly starts to fire on all cylinders thanks to some really good effects work . The ghosts that appear are scary and will send chills up and down your spine . More a creepy popcorn film then full out scary film ( I didn't feel a huge amount of tension just a great deal of unease ) its great special effects are what sets this film a part . Its good stuff and a great deal of fun . Its a perfect film to watch with say the Frighteners .
Funny comedy with a few bumps	I delayed for a long time in watching Dodgeball because I despise Ben Stiller with an unnatural passion . While I think he's fine as a regular actor I find any and all of his attempts at comedic acting unbearable . I have to say that this was a major loss on my part because this is a funny funny movie . This is the typical outcasts against bullies stories but with gyms and dodgeballs . Its great fun and the cast is mostly fine , and Rip Torn standing out as the old salt dodgeball expert . What more can I say , you know the drill . rent the DVD and have a good time .
Really good horror film ( it will help if you know as little as possible )	Hey wait a minute a low budget horror film thats actually pretty good . Despite bumpy start this is a good film about a guy who is being killed again and again , each time jumping into a new life . I don't want to say more since the film is solving the puzzle as to what's going on . This is a good story that seems like an extended episode of one of the better horror anthology series , while it probably could be trimmed down a bit , the film is mostly a solid little thriller that puts the story and characters first instead of the effects . Yes there are effects , but they aren't over used nor are they over done . if you like good , pulpy horror stories give this a try .
Trippy examination of a historian looking for the Holy Grail and ended up in bed with the Nazis	Richard Stanley had been hired by Britain's Channel Four to do a film on the real Raiders of the Lost Ark about the Nazi search for the Ark of the Covenant , however it quickly became clear that there was no such story to tell . Instead he found the story of Otto Rahn and his quest for the Holy Grail . Channel Four wasn't interested and Stanley was forced to put the film on the back burner . After the collapse of his version of the Island of Dr Moreau Stanley returned to subject and began to try and sort out what the real story was . Otto Rahn was a writer who's life's passion was to pursue the Graal . This is an object that was made from the crown of Lucifer after his fall from grace . Its a powerful relic that Rahn believed could be found by decoding the poem Parzival by Wolfram Von Eschenbach . Rahn found backing for his ideas in the mystical societies that were active in Germany between the world wars . The societies were tied to right wing politics and it wasn't long before Rahn was attached to the Nazi's and the SS . Its a dark story about a man who ended up in a situation that was way over his head . The ability to separate fact from fiction when it comes to the Nazi interest in the occult is a difficult thing . There have been more than a fair share of books and films on the subject and not all of them have been scrupulous in their reporting . What you think is real very often not and what you think is not occasionally is . Myth and legend and fact have intertwined so much that anything is possible , especially for an open mind . This is Stanley's attempt to unravel the knot ( or begin to unravel since Stanley in the commentary on the DVD states that some documents concerning some of the subjects are just now being declassified . Stanley hopes to pursue more leads and produce a longer cut later ) . The film is structured as a mystical journey . The visuals and music are often very hypnotic taking you to another place and time . The visuals , taken from photographs and old films are supplemented with interviews with people who knew Rahn and spell out , occasionally contradictorily , the events in Rahn's life . It takes Rahn from his days in college to his final days in the SS . Richard Stanley has fashioned a unique film about a unique character . Its a film that is made in such away as to suck you in and to give you some sense of the subject and the times . Its a good film and good introduction to the weird mind set that one often finds when one looks at the Nazi / occult connection . Its not a perfect film . Stanley at times seems more interested in developing a mood ( which he does brilliantly ) than he does in telling all he knows ( he doesn't , as he explains in the DVD commentary ) . Everything isn't explained and more than a few questions are left unanswered . I'm not sure how much of this is the result of Stanley leaving it out intentionally or the result of his simply not having the answers . Rahn was not a major figure in the Nazi regime , he was at best a footnote so the fact that we have any information about him is amazing . I really liked this film and want to see it again . The structure of the film is such that I'm pretty certain that viewers will be rewarded by a second viewing when things can connect up . Definitely worth a shot if you're interested in the subject or the director and his films . movie alone if you watch the movie and then the commentary on the DVD which explains and deepens the material in the film .
Enjoyable , but not great look at one of the movies ' great , but unknown , directors	Documentary portrait of the King of the B's . Ulmer worked primarily in the poverty row studios in America , after a starting in Europe in the 1920's . The work he turned out usually was looked better and played better than the rest of the films that the studios he worked for turned out . This is the man who gave us Detour ( a Noir classic ) , The Man from Planet X ( a scifi classic ) , Bluebeard ( John Carridines best film role ) and more than 50 other films that are more often than not better than they should be . This is a portrait of the man and not so much an over view of his career . If you want to know about of his films you'll have to use this merely as a start since the amount of information contained isn't a lot . The story is told by the people who knew him , his daughter , and the actors and actresses who worked with him ; as well as those who admired him directors Wim Wenders , Roger Corman , Joe Dante and John Landis , and his biographers including Peter Bogdanovich . Its an good portrait of the man as a workaholic trying to turn out enough work for hire to get by . You also get a sense of the mystery of the man . Here's a man who may or may not have reinvented his early film career , and told Bogdanovich and others how he was simply happy making films his way , all the while trying to get back into the big studios ( Ulmer appears to have been blacklisted almost at the start for running off with the wife of one of the heads of Universal Studios ) . The style of the film has almost everyone riding or pretending to ride in a car while being interviewed . Its done in such away as to make it look like several of the people interviewed are talking to each other , so its cut so that Dante and Landis are in the same car , talking to each other . I'm not sure the interviews were done that way but it does create some interesting imaginary conversations . I liked the film a great deal and it caused me to bring out some of Ulmer's movies to take a look at them once again . Worth a look for film fans and people who just want to know a bit about one of the movies unsung heroes .
Good program thriller by an A-list cast	The story of what happens when a father and daughter move to the country after the death of the mother is a creepy little thriller . I have to say that I wasn't expecting much , and talk of multiple endings made me think that this was a troubled film that wasn't going to be very good . I was surprised to find that despite the film following well worn tracks of movies that went before that this is a really good thriller thanks in large part to the cast headed by Robert DeNiro and Dakota Fanning . Its not under any circumstances a great movie but its a nice updated thriller that would have been a movie programmer back in the 40's or 50's . Recommended for a rainy afternoon as a bargain matinée at the movies or at home on a Saturday night with a huge bowl of popcorn . I sure you won't feel you've wasted your time .
I like it , but I think its been over praised and over hyped	I'm going to have to think about this film a while . I watched the new Cohen Brothers film because of all the best picture nods its gotten in the last couple of days . Clearly my thoughts on the film have been colored by the high esteem the film has . I like it I don't don't love it . Deeply Philosophical and existential western chase film seems to have been put on the screen to win awards . The film seems more allegory than real with a few twists ( the late night move by Josh Brolin that makes everything come together is clearly deus ex machina - actually it makes it Greek tragedy since that one act is the weakness that brings down the wrath of the god ( s ) . ) and its drive to be about something deeper helped keep the film at arms length for me . Actually the real problem was I never liked Josh Brolin's character . He is marginally better than his pursuer and I never really felt I knew him enough to care . Brolin's Moss ' every man in conflict with force of nature / hand of malevolent God Javier Bardem's Anton Chigurh isn't someone I could identify with except as a literary notion of a flawed Gary Cooperesque character . These are archetypes not real people . Its so arch and over the top-at least to me - that I wanted to laugh at the silliness of the machismo ( though Anton Chigurh is probably one of the five most malevolent characters ever to walk across the screen ) . I'm curious what the film would be if the Greek chorus bits with Tommy Lee Jones and Woody Harrelson were removed since I think its these often oblique passages , while genuinely thought provoking , are the reason that everyone feels the film is something more than a good western tale . ( What if we had a Greek chorus commenting on the events in the James Brolin film Night of the Juggler , would that have made it more than a chase film ? ) I really DO like the film , I just can't believe that the film has been so invested with such deep meaning ( Things thought of while watching the movie : The end of Greed ; the failed Cohen brother's attempt at filming James Dickey's To the White Sea ; any number of 1930's or 40's westerns ; Zane Grey and Louis L Amour Westerns ; Mindwalk ; Frankensteins pursuit of his creation into the wastes ; . . . and a few other things-several other bleak chase films - that have started to fade with the lateness of the hour ) Oh yea and as for the off screen events that people have complained about . . . I think they're crazy . I think we see what we need to . 7 .
Liam Neeson becomes an action hero	Luc Besson produces a slam bang action thriller starring Liam Neeson . Neeson is a divorced dad who adores his daughter , but can't provide for her like her new step dad since his security gig doesn't pay all that well . When his daughter goes to France things take a turn for the worst as she ends up kidnapped . This is bad news for the guys who took her since Neeson was once an agent over seas and he doesn't play nice . Pure popcorn movie is a bit slow to start but once Neeson's daughter goes missing the film begins firing on all cylinders and its becomes really clear that Neeson has a future playing bad ass action heroes . Its a violent take no prisoners ride as Neeson single mindedly goes after his daughter and no one who gets in his way is safe . No one . This means its mean and nasty with a torture scene that well , I didn't know Liam had it in him . I really liked this film a great deal . It just winds it self up and goes like a rocket . If the film has any flaws its that the movie sometimes moves on to the next thing a little too abruptly . Not that I truly mind , but its the difference between being a and an eight . If you like action movies see this film .
black comedy about the horrors of war	The title is a reference to the destruction of the remnants of a harvest , like rice husks , by farmers who burn them creating fires on the plains . This is a bleak tale of the destruction of the Japanese soldier . The story is set in the closing days of the Philippines campaign as a soldier with TB who returns from a hospital because since he can walk , they have no room for him . His superior officers don't want him around since he's really too sick to work or fight . Abused by his officer he's sent back to the hospital with orders to either be admitted or kill himself . They still won't take him and he's soon left to wander across the war ravaged landscape trying to find help or a place to stay or even just food . Its a bleak journey with no hope in sight and only death and man's inhumanity to man at every turn . Billed as a harrowing journey into the dark heart of man and war this is also a very funny movie . This isn't to say its not horrifying , it is at times , but its also darkly comic . How could it not be ? Here is a film where madness and insanity run rampant , people are constantly trying to hustle tobacco leaves for food , trying to get even a slightly better pair of shoes , trying to remain a Japanese soldier in the face of absurdity by marching constantly but never getting anywhere and you can't help but laugh . To be sure things go darker as it becomes clear that cannibalism maybe , literally and figuratively , the only way to survive , but at the same time there is something uncomfortably funny about the human comedy . Hailed as a great anti-war film its stark photographic style makes clear the insanity of war even as it dazzles our eye with its beauty . Here we see landscapes full of bodies that include the soldier and the civilian . set amid fields forests and trees that would otherwise be , and to some extent still are , quite beautiful . Its a jarring sensation . What intriguing is that I read that this is based on a novel about the redemptive power of Christianity . The director removed all over the religious references to hope and salvation and instead used it as to show that life stinks , war stinks worse and that there is , ultimately no hope . Intellectually I admire the film , emotionally I don't . Part of it is a strident downbeat score which , for me over accentuates what we are seeing on the screen . Its almost gilding the lily since the imagery is so strong it doesn't really need to have the music force you into feeling one way or another . Is it a great film , thats for you to decide . For certain its unlike any other war film , bloody , horrific and real in ways that big budgeted films claim to be but never are . This is not for those adverse to blood and gore since its here in spades . Definitely worth a look .
Good , but slowly paced independent serial , is worth a look if for no other reason then a rare good guy role for Bela Lugosi	Bela Lugosi gets to play one of his rare good guy roles in a serial based upon the long running radio hit ( which was also the source of a feature film where Lugosi played the villain . ) Lugosi cuts a fine dashing figure and its sad that he didn't get more roles where he could be the guy in command in a good way . Here Chandu returns from the East in order to help the Princess Nadji who is being hunted by the leaders of the cult of Ubasti who need her to bring back from the dead the high priestess of their cult . This is a good looking globe trotting serial that is a great deal of fun . To be certain the pacing is a bit slack , more akin to one of Principals ( the producing studios ) features then a rip roaring adventure , but it's still enjoyable . This plays better than the two feature films that were cut from it because it allows for things to happen at their own pace instead of feeling rushed or having a sense that " hey I missed something " . One of the trilogy of three good serials Lugosi made , the others being SOS Coast Guard and Phantom Creeps
Sure its powerful and a story that should be told , but do we have to watch it ?	Bleak , black and thoroughly depressing this film has to go on the list of all time downers . This is the story of the end of the world via radiation as survivors try to find a safe place and other people still alive , but instead find only the abyss . Stanley Kramer's powerful look at what nuclear war may bring is a masterpiece of film-making . It moves you to ponder not only your own mortality but also that of the world . Made at the height of the nuclear arms race this story was once a day or two off from actually happening , today its still possible , but I think we'd have a little better chance of averting it ( or at least I hope ) . Its a wonderful heart felt movie on all levels both in front of the camera and behind it . The problem with a film like this is , why would anyone want to watch it . Yes , its a well made and well told drama , but its so depressing and the ending is such a foregone conclusion that watching it becomes an exercise in self abuse . What can we get out of story that is now so clichéd that as we watch it we fill in the blanks of whats going to happen next . I'm guessing even when it was made everyone pretty much knew what the outcome was to be . To be honest other than a chance to see great film-making I don't know why anyone would want to make oneself feel so depressed on purpose . This film is a vital warning about " tomorrow " . It just may leave you feeling too hopeless to do anything to stop it .
Good but not great , despite some wonderful pieces	This is the story of Wall-E a robot who is alone working on earth cleaning up the polluted planet . One day he finds a plant and takes it home . When one day a space ship lands Wall-E meets EVE who has been left on the planet for some reason . The reason is to find signs that plants are returning , so when Wall-E shows EVE the planet she sends a signal for pick up and is whisked back to a space ship where all of mankind has been living-with Wall-E in pursuit . This is a mostly wordless feature film not only about robots who fall in love but also what it means to be human and what it means to be alive . Its also a satire , of sorts , about the fat lazy people that we in the West have become . Technically this is one of the most beautifully animated films that Pixar has done . Its wonderful to look at . The places and spaces and the characters are all beautifully rendered . The film creates more than good number of real characters , both robots and people and its the characters that make the film worth seeing . The problem is that the story is a bit of a mess . On the one hand you have the central story of the romance of Wall-E and EVE , but you also have this glaring social commentary looming over everything . From the polluted Earth of the first half to the fat people in space during the second . Which is more important ? To me its the romance and its there that the film shines . Frankly I got teary during any number of sequences dealing with the romance . Unfortunately the " get the plant so we can go home story " kind of goes nowhere smoothly as situation keeps being inserted again and again to keep it going . On top of that we have the not so hidden messages about how lazy we all are and how happiness is " not following the path " . The story goes from well told story about Wall-e and Eve to the Captain ( who is wonderful and under utilized-I wanted more of him ) to the two human " lovers " John and Mary who begin to see life out side of their hoover-chairs . There is this really good robot romance stuck in here thats gotten lost somewhere along the way . I was sobbing during the four minute trailer that was floating around a few months ago that focused beautifully on the romance . I went from not being sure if it would work to being sure they hit it out of the park . There's this wonderful simple story locked in there with all this not as wonderful stuff around it . ( A word of warning - the trailers give a good number of gags away ) Yes I've complain about every Pixar Movie . ( Toy Story 2 isn't as good as the first one , Bugs Life is too slow , Monsters Inc was not quite Toys Story , Nemo didn't completely thrill me , Incredibles is too long , Cars is too simple and their eyes wig me out , Ratatouille , while very good , isn't the the great second coming many claimed ) Say What you will I own all but A Bugs Life . Other than Cars I think all have improved with time ( thanks to the critical claim that this Pixar is the next big thing no loner being considered ) And while I do think Ratatouille has too much story and needs to be trimmed down , I don't think that any of them have as many problems story wise as this ( certainly none has as many character needing exploration and fleshing out ) . What is this film about-really I don't know . I adore the romance and wish I had someone to take to see it since its so charming , but at the same time . . . I don't know it all doesn't come together for me . Perhaps I could see some of the story line too clearly . I could tell what the next shot was or the next motion would be . Perhaps I saw too many jokes in the trailers and commercials . Maybe it was the god awful Hello Dolly clip playing over and over and over . Maybe it was the one movie too many that played Le Vie En Rose . I don't know . there is something about the film that doesn't allow it to hang together for me . I admire its construction but I don't love the result . I still like it . I'd give it between 6 . 5 to , but at the same time the parts are better then the whole . Go see it and make up your own mind-if nothing else there are some really neat things in it .
Taken on its own terms this is a pretty creepy movie	Warning : There are spoilers ahead . Friends reunite for the funeral for one of their childhood group called " The Crazy Eights " . They are left a box and told to open it together . Inside the box is a map which leads them to a house where they find a trunk ? and more revelations as the group ends up at the ruins of a hospital where things begin to go wrong and they begin to perish . Its not giving anything away to say that the adults met when they were children taking part in psychological experiments ( The opening text implies as much ) and that the hospital is found out to be the place where they were " tested " . I liked this film a great deal . Its not perfect but there is something edgy about the way its put together that I found frightening . I liked the rapid editing in some sequences that make it seem as though you've caught something out of your eye . More than once while watching the DVD I backed things up to see if I saw what I saw . With in one or two seconds there are times when the picture shifts and we get images , children , faces , ghosts mixed into the action . I know this bothers some viewers but it kept me on edge since it made it seem like the ghosts are real or that it was the mind of the characters breaking through . I liked that the camera didn't hold on the visions since it allowed for my mind to take over . Or in the case of some of the deadly appearances the small motions on the edge of the frame just before the next scene makes you wonder what you just saw . The script is an odd mix of the sort of thing you'd find in this type of film , and some touches that blur the line about what you are seeing . Is the film now or then or something else ? I don't know . The film is constructed as a film taking place in the here and now but there are clues that that may not be wholly the case . The final sequences ( which many people don't seem to like ) I found oddly affecting . What exactly are we seeing anyway ? I'm not sure . Just as I'm not sure about the intrusions of the memories through the earlier parts of the film , but its in a good way since it requires me to think about what I'm seeing . I think if the director had been less sure of himself the film would have collapsed on itself , something the film is never in danger of doing . The acting by the reasonably well known cast ( Frank Whaley , Tracy Lords , Gabrielle Anwar ) is good , if somewhat histrionic . Clearly they are aware of the films limitations but are trying to at least go for it . I liked it . I think this is worth a look
Good but the 1938 version is better	Updated version of a story that had been turned into the film in 1938 England ( Return of the Frog ) concerning the pursuit by the police of a master criminal known as the Frog because of the frog like get up ( bulging eyes etc ) he wears . One of the good Wallace films from the 1960's it's a solid little entertainment . Clearly influenced by ( or did this influence ) the restart of the Dr Mabuse films , the Frog seems to be more a super villain than a master thief . While not the best of the Wallace films , it is worth a look . It would make an interesting double feature with the excellent earlier film . Between 6 and .
Funny funny precode film clearly shows what a good sound comedian Buster Keaton was	This is a great film that is very funny especially once it gets going . The premise is that an engaged couple wants to wed but can't do so until the girl's older sister does so ( they don't want her to appear to be an old maid ) . The sister is having a hard time finding anyone to marry because she insists her husband be a great lover ( and have great other things , as a sly comment as one dumped suitor comes out of the swimming pool implies ) . Into this madness comes Buster Keaton who is run over accidentally by the fiancé . Sensing an opportunity , the fiancé begins to spread the rumor that Keaton is a great lover . Soon not only the " old maid " sister , but every other woman in the area is pursuing Keaton . Keaton was a master comedian and it really shows here . I'm just floored that this , like many of his other sound films aren't better known , since Keaton really did manage to keep the laughs coming for over 50 years in the movies . This is a perfect example of the good stuff he did that most people don't know about . This is a very funny comedy full of wicked pre-code japes as well as typical Keaton style physical gags . I put this film on expecting to smile here and there and instead found myself chuckling steadily through out . Recommended to anyone wants to see a good screwball comedy with more than a few risqué moments .
Good 1950's scifi	1959 movie about a test pilot who disobeys orders and ends up flying higher than he should - becoming the title in the process . He also returns to earth looking like the burnt casserole man . Filmed in England yet set in White Sands New Mexico this is a slow but decent little scifi thriller about an experiment that goes horribly wrong . Its the sort of thing you put on late at night to fall asleep to or laugh at or drift off in the ways that black and white movies of the period are prone to make you do . Not one of my favorites I recently picked it up as part of a Criterion box set called Madmen and Monsters of four lesser films from the late 1950's packaged together with a host of typical extras . Why Criterion would choose these films was a bit beyond me until I realized that all of the films were made by the same producers and were the follow ups to Fiend Without a Face ( the crawling brain film ) which Criterion put out several years ago . The transfer and such is sterling and the commentary is very informative dealing with the film and the producers life as exploitation filmmakers and to be honest listening to it boosted my appreciation of the film . Its a good way to see the film - though to be honest I'm still not convinced the film needed a Criterion edition-especially since its pricey set ( which I got greatly reduced ) will limit peoples exposure to the film .
Really good B mystery	The cop father of a private detective is killed when he stumbles on a criminal enterprise . The private detective decides to investigate the case in the three days left to him before he goes into the army . Much better then it sounds crime drama is a breezy little film , it runs under an hour . With nary a pause once the film gets up and running this is a darkly comedic film about a criminal organization that seems to be harking back to prohibition days . The veteran cast including Dick Purcell and Niel Hamilton really sell the story to the point that I misdirected as to what was going on . This is a superior little film thats worth popping in to the DVD player should you happen to rent or buy it . ( Leave a comment )
I was amused and entertained , I can't say more than that	Tommy Lee Jones stars in a murder mystery based on a novel by James Lee Burke . Its seems the bodies of young women are beginning to turn up all over the area . Meanwhile a big movie star discovers the skeletal remains of someone out in the bayou , an event which kicks up memories for cop Jones . This rambling tale is rather compelling once it gets going . I'm not too sure what the point of all of it all was ( there are too many characters with too much dirt hidden in the unnamed past ) , but while it was on I was amused and entertained . Bertrand Tavernier supposedly has been cutting and re-cutting the film over the past couple of years , but I think whats on screen is an okay time filler and worth a rental
Eddie Constantine is in fine form trying to save a friend and bring a criminal to justice	Almost twenty years after the close of the Second World War Charlie gets a call from a friend , he has found the man , a war criminal , that he has been chasing around the world for the previous two decades . Reluctantly Charlie leaves his horse farm in France and goes to Greece to meet his friend . Upon arrival he finds his friend is missing and that he is being followed by various people who don't want the chase to continue . Now Charlie must try to save his friend and find the man responsible for crimes so long ago . Moody noir-ish thriller that deals with the ideas of guilt and the question as to whether we can ever move on from the past . Was Charlie wrong to leave his friend on his quest , a journey that he himself had sworn to take as well ? Should we still chase after the criminals from wars long ( but not so long ) over ? Its not and easy road to travel . This is a film with a great deal on its mind , and once the running back and forth of the first half is dispensed with and Charlie ( played by a very good Eddie Constantine ) is left with some moral questions the film becomes something more than a simple crime or spy drama . This is a little seen film that deserves to be found by a wider audience . Its not the be all and end all of 1960's Euro thrillers , however its something more than the run of the mill . Worth keeping an eye out for should you stumble across it .
Good adventure yarn	A woman hires a boat captain to take her into the Amazon where her father has gone missing . Along the way the villains end up kidnapping her and its up to the Captain to to rescue her . Very good adventure yarn with some great action , some clever turns and one of the nastiest piranha attacks ever caught on film . ( I don't care if its just an animal that gets eaten it will make your skin crawl as it goes on and on and on . ) This is a near perfect rainy day sort of movie . If there is any real flaw its that the print I saw seems to have been trimmed down , probably to fit into slot on TV with commercials . I'm guessing this because the print has a couple of jumps in story that are too egregious to be anything other than intentionally caused . ( The print I saw also has the ear marks of being a black and white version of a color movie , which again would lead me to believe that this was once part of some TV package of Euro-films that were sold to local stations ) Cut or not this is a film thats worth a bag of popcorn and a soda on a rainy afternoon .
very good but very hokey	Nominally the founding of Boys Town by Father Flanagan and his push to prove that there are no bad boys . Its as syrupy and sweet as they come . I doubt very much that the film is very close to what happened since everything in Spencer Tracy's hands is bound to be okay . I have no idea why but I was moved to mistiness a couple of times . Of course there is never any doubt that Boys Town will grow and thrive and of course Mickey Rooney's bad boy with a heart of gold is much too good to be true and is bound to do the right thing in the end . Still its a grand little film of the sort they don't make any more ( and would be laughed off the screen if they did ) . Absolutely worth a look see when it reappears on TV or as a rental . ( my only real problem is that Spencer Tracy won his second Oscar in a row for his portrait of Father Flanagan , either they really liked him or the other nominees weren't very good since the role is truly unremarkable , well played , but nothing special . )
Erotic pirate film plays well even when you remove the sex	Its a pirate porn movie thats actually plays as a decent little movie . Sue me I liked this film . I'm not sure I liked it because its better than most adult films or because its a good movie in its own right . Certainly the fact the film can have 40 minutes of sex removed and have it survive says a great deal ( The full version runs over two hours ) . Better than many soft-core trash films that play late night on cable this is actually a movie I'd want to see again . The plot has something to do with a pirate captain wanting to get a magical Incan scepter that will give him great power to this end he kidnaps a recently married man who holds the key to the hereabouts of the scepter and throws the wife overboard . He is pursued by some pirate hunters who pick up the wife and remain close on the heels of the villains . What can I say the acting is wildly uneven , but the cast is still game . The effects are uneven , but serviceable ( and provide a great homage / spoof with a marvelous riff on the skeleton scene in Jason and the Argonauts ) . The script is actually reasonably good and properly silly ( though with some of the cast anything beyond silly might have been a stretch ) . I'm guessing in mainstream hands this might have been a successful pirate action film . My only real complaint is that all of the main women look about the same , large breasted blonds of similar stature and builds . They all pretty much blend together . Its an odd thing to do when the film tries very hard to be something other than a stereotypical adult film . If you're tired of the typical late night fare you find on many pay cable stations give this film a try . You will laugh with and at the movie , especially if you keep in mind the fact that its source is an adult film .
Really good thriller based on Bryan Edgar Wallace story that has mood and atmosphere to spare . It hooks you and drags you along .	A band of hooded men have formed a court and they are exacting justice upon the criminals who have escaped the reach of the law . The sentence they exact is death by hanging . Using the hangman's rope from the Scotland Yard Museum they leave their victims hanging from various locations with a file detailing the case against them pinned to the body . Scotland Yard is stumped and have assigned their best man to break the case . Meanwhile another fiend is on the loose , one who is neatly severing the heads of young women . The bodies are found the heads are not . Made in Germany as part of the Edgar / Bryan Wallace series that ran through out the 1960's this is an atmospheric popcorn movie . This neat little thriller is based on Bryan Edgar Wallace's book The White Carpet . I'm not sure how much of the story is there or how much has been changed but whats on the screen is a really diversion . Say what you will about a plot that has two halves that really don't belong together , the movie manages to keep them both interesting . The film is heavy on mood and atmosphere with the dark night time photography making what ever German city this was filmed in seem like London in the fog . The look of the court of the " Executioner of London " is suitably creepy especially with all of the men decked out in black hooded robes ( shots of the court in the trailer are what drew me to the film ) . The solution is probably not something you're going to work out completely , then again you really won't care since the film moves along at such a good clip it just carries you along . If there is any flaw in the film its that the two halves of the story never really seem to belong together . Its not giving anything away to say that the plot threads to cross but its a bit too neat and makes it feel almost contrived . Highly recommended for those dark and stormy nights or afternoons when you want to slip away into the foggy streets of London .
Good action movie is brought to you by the tobacco growers of turkey	I have never seen so much smoking in one movie in my life . Even having seen a good number of Turkish films where smoking seems to be a way of life this film takes the case , or the smoke . Geeze , find a dead body have a smoke . Look at a corpse have a smoke . Almost get beaten up by a man with chains on his hands , bum a smoke from the poor guy . I think I may have gotten lung cancer just from watching this thing . All kidding aside this is a very good action film starring Cüneyt Arkin , one of my new favorite actors . Arkin is a doctor who moonlighted as an actor . Think of him as a cross between Clint Eastwood and Chuck Norris , and probably able to beat the crap out of both of them . The plot of this film has Arkin investigating the death of the daughter of a friend of his . ( I think this is the case since I saw this in Turkish without any English ) . The girl had some how gotten involved in prostitution and porn and was killed for her trouble . Arkin runs roughshod over the bad guys , kicking a few butts in the process of trying to track down which slime-ball was responsible . Arkin also has to deal with his friend who insists on getting involved as a result of a personal vendetta . The action is well done ( though it gets very silly at the end ) and the plot is interesting . As Arkin films go its not at the top of the heap but its close . I'm sure that had I been able to understand the dialog I would have enjoyed it more . If you're new to the films of Turkey and of the work of Cüneyt Arkin and feel adventurous you may want to give it a try with the understanding that this is middle of the road Arkin . if you've run across Arkin and his brand of action before and liked what you saw give it a try , this is basically more of the same . If you're not up to trying something new take a pass and wait for one of the other better Arkin films to come your way .
Good example of Nazi exploitation cinema , if you like that sort of thing	One of Bruno Mattei's women in Nazi Prison camp sagas . It tells the story of a female doctor plucked from the ranks of prisoners to help with the Nazi experiments . Lurid , Vile and nasty this is 90 odd minutes of women being abused and debased and raped and ( fill in the blank ) Amusing for a while ( watching the technical problems - modern buildings in the background , modern locations , bad acting ) but it becomes drag rather rapidly . Even allowing that many of the horrible experiments alluded to were real , there is no one to root for or care about . Its by the numbers cruelty for a low brow audience . That said its a good example of this the Nazi exploitation genre , and worth a look if you like that sort of thing - However it's not for the easily shocked .
Mostly brilliant merging of samurai and gunfighters as Takashi Miike takes back the genre Sergio Leone took to Italy	Takashi Miike makes a samurai movie as a western . The Japanese cast speaks in English , the music is eclectic with strong spaghetti western influences , and the material is referential and full of homage and send up . It begins with a Quentin Tarantino cameo , then switches to the story of two clans fighting over the supposed treasure in a small town . Into the stand off rides a stranger with no name . Forgive the brevity , but if you've seen any number of spaghetti westerns then you've probably seen something like this story that spins out here . The tale of gold lust and warring factions isn't anything new . What is new is how Miike dresses it up . Clearly the Japanese could make a western if the wanted to . Its a clever re-imagining of the genre and is interesting enough to warrant at least a brief look see . The problem with the film is that its 30 to 45 minutes too long . A very good first half hour gives way to long exposition in the middle hour , and while there are some genuinely nice moments its a little too plodding as it tries to cover one cliché too many . The film then picks up in the final 40 minutes with a huge shoot out . Its a schizo movie at times as things just go on and on . However when the film works - which it does at the ends and for a chunk of the middle , this is some of the best film making I've seen this year so far . The characters , the action , some set pieces are simply stunning , not to mention touching , there are several moments of real emotion . And make no mistake , this is a spaghetti western , and the film is a bit more fun if you know the genre . For example the Django in the title will alert anyone who's seen the Franco Nero film of Django what is inside the coffin that is dragged around . You don't need the know the genre but it will help you identify what they are stealing from . for the mixed up and down nature of the film . Probably the only one who could have pulled this off was Miike and he did it wonderfully .
Good but not great Bio-pic	So what are we to make of the highly touted bio of Howard Hughes . Certainly this is one of the most lavish and spectacular films of the last few years . It looks great is fantastically put together and acted , but somehow something seems missing . As the film unspooled I was never bored but I didn't really care . I didn't really connect with the film . Yes , the film is dramatic but its never involving . I never felt that there was a reason to be watching other than it was a well made film that was somewhat interesting . I'm sure that had it not been a big award winning film that I would have liked it more , but for a film thats up for and won tons of awards I'm left puzzled , a feeling I have about every other Oscar Best Picture nominated film . See the film , its not bad , and do so on the big screen if possible . Just expect to like the film and not love it .
One of the best serials Republic ever did	Probably considered a close second to The Adventures of Captain Marvel as the best of all serials . This too is a comic adaptation , but of a comic almost no one has seen in 60 years since it was a war related comic that died a painful death when the " enemy " went away and Spysmasher was forced to fight regular criminals . The plot has Spysmasher - a reporter who faked his own death so he could fight the enemy on their own terms - returning to America to stop The Mask from flooding the country with counterfeit money as well as doing other terrible things . It's a rip roaring adventure that moves like the wind . Republic spent a nice chunk of change on the film and it shows with production values that seem a little more than normal . If there is a flaw its that the film is so action packed that watching it in one or two sittings you become aware how little plot there is . Yes it moves like the wind and yes it's the perfect serial to be seen one chapter each week , but as a something to watch it one sitting its almost too much motion . Granted this was never intended to be seen in one sitting so its understandable that there are " problems " ( and minor ones at that ) . Action film and comic nuts really should see this . It's a blast and a half , especially if you like to watch the old wartime films from the 1940's .
Better than its low budget battle scenes	Told in flashback this is literally the story of the last days of World War Two in China . Days before the end the Soviets enter the Pacific war and begin attacking Japanese outposts in China . One raid saves a Chinese man from a firing squad and it isn't long before he's heading back to the Soviet base . A wrong turn and the convoy he's in ends up in a Japanese camp . A battle ensues and the Chinese man and two Soviet soldiers end up fleeing into the wilderness where they come across two Japanese girls . From this point the film follows the trek across the open country to get to safety . The battle scenes are absolutely terrible . While they do have a sense of scale they are ineptly done on the cheap so that human bombs that are suppose to be diving under tanks to blow them up are clearly seen to dive next to the . A sea battle is embarrassing miniatures . If you can get past those then the rest of the movie is interesting , if not a bit preachy . The majority of the film concerns itself with the dynamic of the various characters as they have to deal with survival , humanity and nationality on the road to safety . How the relationships change is interesting , if not always successful . It gives you food for thought . Ultimately this is a very good , but flawed anti-war film . A word of warning . If you are looking to find a copy of this film in English be warned the current translations available are far from good . The import copy I watched was almost unwatchable and I've read a review of a different edition that was equally awful . The titles seems to be literal translations of the words jumbled about . The film is worth seeing , only wait for an official English language release , since the bad translation severely hurts any enjoyment of the film ( Rating applies to what a decent translation would make it )
The True Story Behind Spielberg's the Terminal	The story of Merhan Nasseri was turned into a big budgeted movie by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks to mixed results ( I'm not a fan ) . To me the story of what actually happened is much more interesting , if much more darker than the Hollywood fluff piece . The short version of the story goes as follows : Merhan Nasseri flees his home country of Iran and tries to seek asylum in several countries in Europe before settling in Belgium . When he tries to go to England they deport him , not to Belgium where he belongs , but to France , and in the process they lose all of his papers . Assured that they will turn up he decides to wait at the airport . That was in 1988 . The documentary picks up after he's been there 11 years . It gives an overview of Nasseri's case and takes us through several days in his life . It explains how he survives the day to day . It also takes us through the time when Nassaeri gets a document which means he can now travel . What this may mean for a man who's been waiting 11 years is the final part of the film . This is a strange film about a strange man . As one person says he's a bit odd , but then adds spending 11 years in an airport terminal would drive anyone crazy . You feel for the man , even if you don't completely understand him or his choices . Its all very surreal in its way . The documentary is a bit odd as well since it seems to mirror the static nature of Nasseri's existence . A good portion of it is taken up by interviews at Nasseri's " spot " at the airport ( don't you dare sit in his place ) . I like the film . I like that it raises many questions , not just about Nasseri and his situation but also about all of us and the way we live our lives and how many of us are just as limited in the places we inhabit . Even when I began to wonder if part of this wasn't his own doing , I had to question whether , if I had been stuck in a years long battle , as he has been , if I would have done the same things . To me this is a more interesting story than what Hollywood told us . To be fair the film is not perfect , it is a bit too static , and Nasseri is a bit strange . Still its worth seeing as a rental , if nothing else . A Side Note : The thin as a rail Naseri says that he primarily eats Mc Donalds for most of his meals . What does this say about the premise of the film Super Size Me ?
good not great	Story of two boys who make a sequel to Rambo using a video camera . Along the way their friendship and need to create has effects on everyone around them . This is a sweet little movie that is being over sold by some reviewers . Its a nice little tale , but I don't think its as great as some have said . Perhaps had I stumbled upon this on my own I would have liked it more . Certainly I can relate having made films as a kid . Its a good film you will enjoy it . Forgive me for not saying more but I have to see it again to properly discuss it since its one of those films that was not what I was expecting so in a way I was disappointed . ( Addendum : I think my hesitation to liking the film is the fact that the one kid's parents are part of a deeply religious and restrictive sect . I think the problem is not so much the group itself , rather that its belief's or restrictions are more a Deus Ex Machina for the plot rather than an organic part of the story . I say this since its been niggling at me since I saw the film early last night )
One of the so bad its good flicks	A woman tries to locate her fiance who is missing somewhere in the jungle . This is a movie to make strong men go slack jawed and wide eyed . At least half its running time is stock footage only some of which matches the studio shot footage ( or even other bits of stock footage ) . The narration is so out of touch with reality as to make one wonder was the author in on the script meetings . Its truly an amazing film . To give you an idea , the film begins with the search starting in India , for no logical reason . It then switches to Africa and goes on from there , where bits of plot from India come into play , like the native uprising in India affecting the natives in the African Jungle , or the shadowy presence trying to stop the search . At least it moves . There's good action , and the actors are game if nothing else . Is it worth watching ? Yes . The film at least is trying to do something for its running time . Inept film making aside the only flaw is a long passage toward the end where its just people talking . It doesn't last long and before long there's a great big fight . On the purely enjoyable scale I give it . Perfect for a rainy day when you want to laugh at something .
Wild	Oh boy , what a wild movie this is . Any movie that begins with a nonchalant battle in a fancy dining room and goes from there has to be seen to be believed . The plot has something to do with a rich , but corrupt man killed for a valuable necklace ( it was the reason for the opening fight ) . Framed for the murder is the love of the rich man's wife who had been sent off to the wilds in the hope that he would be killed . The widow of course sides with her love and what transpires after that is the movie . Over the top nonsense is a bit of fun in the " I can't believe everything that's going on " sort of way . Best of all its amusing beyond the disbelief with some intriguing characters . And if nothing else its one of the few times a certain cliché about who's behind it all is at least partly right .
Comedic action film has plenty to recommend it , however the juggling of two many styles makes it less than the sum of its parts	This is the story of the Seven Masters who recruit a bumbling police officer into their group in order when its discovered that he possesses a high level of Chi . The timing is very fortuitous since an ancient enemy has awoken and is once more spreading evil in the world . I first read about this movie when several on-line reviews said that this was destined to be the next big thing in movies . Later reviews were positive , but were less glowing noting that the film has several parts that don't fully mix together . I'm in the camp with the later reviews since I find the mixture of styles works against the parts . I should begin with the action . If you want to see great action this is the movie for you . Hand to hand and weapons such as swords are used through out the film to great effect . Sure its done with wires and computers , but it doesn't matter since its so much fun to look at . Very often you watch the madness on screen and go " OH Cool " even though you know how its done . I loved when our hero throws a cup at the villain who catches it on the flat end of his sword , and then sends it spinning back with even more force . Amazing . ( You really should try this film for the action if nothing else . ) The humor in this film is both knowing and very funny . The opening round-table of the masters discussing the difficulty of training is priceless , especially if you've seen any martial arts movies . There is a nice friendly edge to it , that is mostly right on target . The problem is that our hero is often much to bumbling to be believed , especially after he's been in the training program for a while . The too slapsticky attitude is what really hurts the movie since there is no natural progression , just silliness for silliness sake ( The ending for example ) . The cast and the characters are great . These are people you can really root for . The villain is also suitably evil . If you were to take all of the movies parts and look at them separately you'd be amazed at how good they all are . The problem is that when you put the bits together the film doesn't quite work together . As I said the slapstick doesn't hold up all the way through . The film is overly jokey at times , even in serious moments . Its hard to keep a light edge when characters are spewing blood and being run through with swords . It takes a bit of the love for the film away and leaves you with admire and simply like . The film also suffers from a pacing problem with slow period in the middle with the training bookended by a funny beginning and an action packed end . Still I think you should give the movie a shot especially if you like action movies , especially when they have a humorous side to them . In all probability you're going to be like me and like this movie , but you won't love it .
Story of two people who exchange letters across time is a very good romance even if you're not in a romantic mood	The plot of this movie goes something like this . . . . A young woman leaving a house called Il Mare because it stands on a pier in the sea leaves a note for the next occupant of the house . The idea is to greet the next occupant and to ask them to send her any mail addressed to her since she expecting some important letters ( from her boyfriend who's learning animation in America ) . The letter is picked up by a young man who is an aspiring architect but who works building bridges to pay the rent . He has just moved into Il Mare . . . as its first tenant . . . two years before the girl's letter was sent . What transpires is a conversation in letters as boy and girl exchange letters across time . This is a beautiful to look at ( I love Il Mare the house ) and to listen to movie ( I'm going to have to track down the soundtrack ) . In a way this plays like a time traveling version of 84 Charring Cross Road with much of the story told simply through the letters . In some ways its a story of two isolated people connecting through time , even though there is no way they should be able to . I think that one review of the film I read was right in away in that this film is a weird sort of take on the IMing culture as well as anyone who spends too much time on the computer and so isolates themselves from human contact . ( This also has echoes of Voices of a Distant Star ) This is a very nice little romance about two people who at first think their connection is a joke and then find that they are somehow becoming friends . For the most part it manages to keep you from thinking about the problems that " time travel " stories usually engender . Basically if you give yourself over to it you'll have yourself a good time . This isn't to say that there aren't problems , there are . As I said the film deals with people who aren't connecting with each other and a good portion of the film is taken up by the two leads moving around not connecting to people . Yes they talk to people ( The girls best friend runs a manga store - and she does voice acting ) but mostly they are are off in their own little worlds . It gets rather tiring since it feels more like a play than a movie at times , the movie in the wrong frame of mind ( which I was in ) will make the movie seem much longer than its 95 minutes . ( Worse I thought I would jump a head . . . bad mistake since I had to go back to make sense of what I saw ) Still its a nice romance that moved me ( I'm not afraid to say I had a tear in my eye ) . Definitely worth seeing if you're so inclined . ( Higher if you're in the right frame of mind )
Good look at how the US does war by other means is trapped by being in a twilight zone linked to current events	John Cusack stars in what is essentially a spiritual sequel to Gosse Point Blank . Cusack here is a hit-man working for a private company / US government ( ala Haliburton ) who goes to a middle eastern / former soviet country we've blown to hell and are now rebuilding as the head of a US trade show . Its really a cover for his mission to kill the man most likely to run the country and who isn't a friend of the US . Add into it a reporter looking to find out whats going on and an over sexed pop star due to be married and you have a situation ripe for satire . Very good clever film with good performances all around . Its very much an uncomfortable and unpleasant film to watch because it hits the mark that are very much close to home and to their target . Its a biting satire . . . or would be if the edge had been taken off by actual events which at times come across just as cartoony as whats in the film . Again its not bad , it's probably one of the better " Iraq " and anti Bush Administration films of the last few years , the problems is that its too topical and its moment seems to be slipping away . This doesn't mean its any less relevant it just means that its stuck in the twilight zone of current events and history . The weird thing is that in time this maybe hailed as a classic or it could be lost to time , the question won't be settled until more time passes . ( In a weird way it reminds me of Wrong is Right , the Sean Connery film from twenty five years ago that bombed at the box office because people couldn't see it was right , or didn't want to acknowledge the possibility . Now it has a small but loyal cult following . ) Whether its ultimately a failure or success in the long hall it is worth seeing when it hits DVD and cable . ( Hey if nothing else it has Hilary Duff going very blue , which should shake up any number of parents )
Three supernatural tales are an okay mix that is weakened by the odd length of its parts	A collection of three ghost stories : In the first , which plays like a darker Beauty and the Beast , an antique drum ends up in the hands of a young woman who has to work out its secret before things turn deadly . In the second a young woman finds a potion to make her irresistible to men , unfortunately it comes with a price . In the last story a cop won't let go of suicide and finds that not only are things not as they appear , but that he should have left the whole thing alone . Its nice to report that here is a recent vintage Thai horror film that isn't a misfire . Its also a relief not to see yet another Asian horror film with a girl with long hair creeping through every scene . This is a ghost story with a decidedly non western flavor thats a nice mix of old and new horror . I don't know if its scary as such but it certainly creates a bit of tension . Although the stories are of various ( but good ) quality the only thing thats really off with this movie is the pacing . The films should either have been expanded feature length or shortened to something more manageable since the 40 to 45 minutes of each is just not right for the tales told . I felt alternately that things went on too long for what they were or didn't go on long enough and the film was " neither fish nor foul " . However despite my complaint about the lengths I do like the stories which are good enough to keep you watching ( actually the stories get better as the film progresses ) The performances are good and the effects are excellent , I especially love the faces in the smoke . This is a good movie . If you like horror films , and Asian horror films in particular I think you'll find this worth renting or taking the time to watch if you run across it on cable or satellite .
Hypnotic	Hour long film made up entirely of fragments from decaying nitrate film . A hypnotic film the film becomes an trip through the minds eye as the unconnected pieces end up joined by the minds ability to impose order . What is the film about ? Thats for you to discover as decay infuses the images with eerie , surreal and amusing power . The music is minimalist in the Philip Glass style which adds to the trippiness . At first odd and disconcerting the film slowly sucks you in and remains riveting viewing until almost the very end ( images of planes and parachutes go on way past the point of boredom ) . An amazing film that will send your mind off on an odd trip to piece together what its all about . ( One piece I read on the film stated the filmmaker likes to talk to audiences to see what they think its about since other than the idea of decay and rebirth he has no set meaning ) Worth a look - especially in a dark room with no distractions
Taken on its own terms this is a pretty good popcorn scifi actioner	A pretty good little film in a pulpy sort of way . This is another game based tale , but for what ever reason , perhaps the good performances ( including Ron Perlman and John Malkovich , Sean Pertwee and Thomas Jane ) or the almost entirely CGI created world that actually looks like a place , or a reasonable script , the film works nicely on its own terms . Set in an alternate now when the world is controlled by four warring corporations , the film tells the story of what happens when during one nasty battle an ancient machine , that had long ago fallen from the sky and was buried , is unearthed . The machine turned people in to nasty monsters and when it was buried centuries before it was hoped that it would never be dug up . Dug up by a bomb blast the machine is set in motion and it begins to turn out mutants who begin to destroy the soldiers . Enter Ron Perlman , a monk in a religious order who knew all about the machine ( they buried it ) . Perlman asks for 20 soldiers to go with him to defeat the machine . The rest of the film chronicles their attempt to penetrate and destroy the monster making machine . Violent , bloody , funny and well acted this is a surprisingly good little film . Normally I dislike the all CGI worlds many filmmakers are drifting towards , but it works here with the look of the film actually creating what seems to be a real place . The performances are genuine and no one seems to be mugging for the camera or only in it for a pay check and it really helps to seal what is going on on screen . In no way is this a one of the big budgeted blockbusters , this is a small little sci-fi action film thats worth camping out on the couch and seeing with a huge bowl of popcorn and a soda .
The music of a man talking fast	For the most part any documentary that Werner Herzog has made results in you seeing something in a new light , even if you don't like the subject . There is always a reason behind anything he has taken a look at . The subject here is auctioneers . I wouldn't have thought twice about a film about men who sell live stock for a living , however having seen a good number of Herzogs films I decided to give this one a shot as well . What fascinates the director is the sounds the men use . It seems to be more music or singing rather than talking ; the words becoming a poetry thanks to the cadences . Its a weird sensation . Granted the magic goes away when the film ends and you watch auctioneers at work away from the film , however during the 44 minutes the film runs you are in the hands of a master who makes you believe that music and poetry is something other than what you think it is . Definitely worth a look .
If the mood strikes you this is a very sweet romantic comedy	A young man , who's mentally handicapped , meets a young woman , with a great deal of baggage , at the laundry where he works and they fall in love . This is a very quirky love story that was exactly what I wasn't in the mood for when I watched it . Still I stayed with it , so I laughed and cried a bit with these very quirky characters . I'm of two minds about this movie . I want to say that this isn't a bad movie , which I know sounds like a backhanded compliment . But its the truth , its not a bad movie , so I feel rather bad having anything less than sterling about it . My problem is that the film is almost too quirky ( A term I hate but unfortunately is the only thing that comes to mind when I think about this movie ) . Everyone is a " character " with quirky ( forgive me ) traits . This isn't bad , its just that I felt that my cup runneth over , especially when the film runs just over two hours . At the same time you have to love a movie that treats its characters as individuals . I loved the fact that even though Teru , our hero , is handicapped he doesn't twitch or convulse or speak in a funny voice . He's just this guy , which is something that can be said about all of the characters , they just are . I also loved that the course of events seemed natural to the place that the story happens in , we don't have any weird twists at the end to make it more sad or more happy , its just what it is and it somehow makes sense . I liked this but I wanted to love it . Certainly you should take a chance and see it if you come across it since it is quite good , though if you watch it like me , at one thirty in the morning , it may not hold your attention the way it should . ( Comments subject to change pending second viewing )
Funny film with some great set pieces	I finally cracked the first WC Fields set that Universal put out a few years ago . I got the second set for Christmas and figured I should probably start watching the films . I started with Its A Gift , the story of a put upon grocer in New Jersey who buys an orange farm and heads west . Of course everything goes wrong . One of Field's classics , this is cinema of cruelty as the put upon Fields has to deal with a world that won't leave him in peace . His wife is a nag , his employee at the store is a moron , his customers-including Mr Muckle , the blind man - are self centered vortexes of destruction . Fields is not a bad guy he just has bad luck as everyone wants something from him . I hadn't seen the film in years and I never noticed how cruel it is . I laughed but I also felt really bad for Fields since he clearly deserved better than he got . Personally I'm mixed about its classic status . Yes Fields is wonderful and the set pieces from attempts to shave while his daughter invades the bathroom , to the day in the grocery store , to trying to sleep on his porch to everything that follows is pure comic genius . Its masterfully put together comedy in a way that very few people today understand , no one does set pieces like this any more its all throw away lines and two second gags . On the technical level it is a classic , but at the same time I didn't laugh enough to be a " classic " . Perhaps its the fact fields ' plight was also very sad at times . I don't know something kept it from crossing into classic status . Certainly this is a four star film , better than most modern comedies and it really should be seen and enjoyed but I don't if its a classic like some of Keaton , Chaplin or the Marx brothers films . But I'm quibbling - no doubt the result of not seeing the film in too long a time . See this film for a really good laugh and to reacquaint yourself with a semi-forgotten master of comedy 7 .
enjoyable	Beautiful to look at Samurai film concerning a bunch of masterless swordsmen who end up protecting a brothel and tavern from some bad ass samurai . more meditative then flat out action film this is a film of characters and ideas . yes there is action but the effects of events have weight because we care about the people . I picked the DVD up a while ago but never sat down to see it until tonight . I've been running across the film on Kung Fu on Mojo HD and could never piece it all together . Running across the film in my movie case I pulled it out and watched a good portion of it tying together the knots of plot . I like the film a great deal . Its not perfect and it wouldn't be on my all time favorite list but it is a good two hours that I wouldn't mind revisiting at a later time . Its worth a look especially if you're willing to be patient with how the story unfolds .
Entertaining look at the stars of Chinese martial arts films	Good martial arts movie over view that is a good mix of interviews , narration and fight clips . The film gives some background on the history of martial arts in China before moving on to a loose overview of martial arts on film . Focusing on the various stars that have emerged in the genre over the years the film is arranged approximate ( but not complete ) order in which an actor rose to prominence . The interviews are with people like Gordon Liu , Jackie Chan , Jim Kelly , Bruce Li and other stars whose clips we see as they talk about making movies . There is also a long segment on Bruce Lee where former students are interviewed . Entertaining , this film compliments nicely some of the better films on the subject Cinema of Vengeance and IFC film on Kung Fu films by fleshing out some of the people only touched on in those documentaries , as well as showing lots of extended film clips of action sequences that are actually worth watching . Worth keeping an eye out for , especially since it can be found in bargain DVD bins for under five bucks .
Graphicly violent fact based tale rise above its genre but is not for the squeamish	Nasty film based on the killings in Matamoros Mexico where the search for a missing student turned up a drug running operation using black magic as a cover and to empower its members . The plot of the film has three buddies going to Mexico for spring break . One goes missing , kidnapped by the cult and the other two go looking for him and end up in a world of trouble . Violent nasty and at times down right ugly horror film that is extremely unpleasant . Graphic to the point of unpleasantness this is one to keep away from the kiddies . There is a real tension created in the film that manages to make you feel very uneasy . The performances are all fine , including Sean Astin playing against type as an American member of the cult . Its a sobering wake up call to anyone who goes wandering in foreign lands on spring break . As films of this sort ( Turistas , Hostel , etc ) go this one is one of the best . I know it could be considered faint praise for a genre that is for the most part little more than death porn , but there is a real gravitas that other films don't have . I don't think its the " based on true events " ( which it really is despite what some people say ) because this film is far enough removed that it based on the events and not a dramatization . Its a good nasty little film-if you like that sort of thing . I have only one real reservation and that the pacing is , for a good portion of the film , while okay , still makes you wish they would get on with things . Recommended for those who like graphic nastiness in a fact based story . If you can't stand graphic violence look elsewhere .
If only I could have forgotten how it was going to end I would have thought this one of the best of the year	Bryan Singers film about the plot to kill Hitler is a very good one . ( SPOILERS AHEAD ) Wonderfully acted , especially when it gets going , it has one of the best ensemble casts I've seen . This is beautiful to look at with a real sense of being in the Nazi world . And it is at times a taut film about a plot to kill the Fuhrer ( I know you can all here the " but " coming , so I won't disappoint you ) BUT the film has one large problem , we know how it turns out . Forgive me for saying that unless you really don't know your history you know the plan fails and everyone dies . Short of them rewriting history there is one and only one way this can go , and its not really a happy one . This doesn't mean there is no tension , there is , it just means there are no surprises except in the details . For me the films inability to transcend the fact we know it ends badly keeps it from being a being a great film and instead making it only a good one . Its is possible to make a great film about a failed event , one need only look at Khartoum or the Alamo to see two films that hold you in such away that you forget the ending . Don't get me wrong its a good film , I just wish they had made me forget the ending at the start . ( Counter point recent films where I knew the ending and didn't care or forgot it in the flow : Milk , Che , Frost / Nixon )
Real sense of place and character lift what could have been a run of the mill infection causing madness flick	One of last years " 8 Films to Die For " is a New York Lensed tale of a zombie / 28 Days Later tale of biological horror set in New Yorks Lower East Side as some disease spread by rat bite and later people bite turns people in hungry beasts . Clearly filmed in New York in real locations this film feels like New York . It lives and breaths the locations it was filmed in ways that big budgeted films never do . The street scenes were apparently filmed on the sly and the result is a real sense of the City where things are really happening . This is New York for real . The film starts off with a great deal of character building ( hey real characters in a horror movie-what a novel idea ) that perhaps goes on a bit too long . Still it sets everyone up so nicely that when then infected begin to assault the people we've come to know we are more than horrified , we are saddened by their fates . I don't know when it was the last time I was choked up at a horror film . To be honest there maybe a bit too much of these building scenes since the film seems to slow down too much around the half hour mark . Things turn up a few notches once the infection spreads and Manhattan is sealed off . How will our heroes survive ? Once things begin to heat up the film becomes a series of sequences that play very real as the infected begin to beat and bash their way into the buildings and apartments . There are many stunning images that seem to have raised the bar of films like this for their stark sense of realism and in your face nature . Most of the second half of the film is dynamite as everyone tries to figure out whats going on and how to survive . I really liked this film a great deal . Granted its not perfect , the film does take too long to start up and its sometimes too close to the action , as if the cinematographer didn't realize how some of the up close fast moving images would look on a big screen , but it certainly is worth seeing . 6 . 5 to .
One of the Best Wheeler and Woolsey Comedies	This is a very funny film starring Wheeler and Woolsey , a comedy team that is all but forgotten these days . Their brand of humor tended to be verbal and punny , but they were also adept physical comedians as well . Here the pair end up helping , and romancing , a runaway fom a rich family . She's inherited a hotel and the boys decide to help her turn it into THE hot spot . Using their way with words they manage to have newspapers write the place up - - - mentioning how safe their safe is . This of course brings a steady stream of crooks all of which want to be the one to crack the safe . Extremely well written , the film suffers from a few slow spots where the fast and furious dialog stop for a silent shot or moment . Normally it wouldn't be bad , but here it off sets the pacing of the film , which for the most part is fast moving , even if it seems not to have a direction . If you want to see a good comedy you haven't seen before , by all means pick this up , its 75 minutes well spent .
Family and friends try to come to terms with the aftermath of a terrible tragedy	Distance Three years after an apocalyptic cult released a biological weapon that killed hundreds and wounded thousands four relatives of people killed in the attack attempt to come to terms with what happened . While the nation mourns the deaths of the victims these four try to come to terms with the deaths of some of the cult members . Stranded in the woods where the cult had lived and where their relatives ashes were scattered , after their car is stolen they are forced to spend the night with one of the few survivors of the cult . There is much talk and reflection as the quartet attempt to find out what drove their loved ones to take part in such a terrible act . This is a film that will enthrall some and drive others to pull their hair out as conversations seem to trail off and people seem to speak haltingly . We catch glimpses of the past in flashback as each person reflects on when their loved ones were still alive and we see the events filtered with the knowledge of what came after . Things are not always spelled out and its not always clear who is who or what is going on . It's a film you have to work with . Personally I'm not sure what I make of this film . I like the realness of it , but there are times when I feel as though it's more than a bit contrived , never to the point of being bad , but just so its slightly disappointing ( that something that gets so much right can be so lumpy at times ) Still it makes you feel and makes you think about things more than most films these days . Worth seeing , especially if you're interested in seeing a film that deals with subjects that are pressing in today's world .
Good thriller	Another from the Criterion Madmen and Monsters set . Here Boris Karloff is a doctor trying to find away to end pain during surgery . Regrettably he becomes addicted to his drugs and all sorts of havoc ensues . Better in many way than the co feature Haunted Strangler , this boasts a super performance from Christopher Lee . The problem is that this is tough going when viewed close to the Haunted Strangler since in some ways its more of the same ( which isn't too far off since the films were made somewhat back to back ) . Watching them back to back , as one is prone to do with double feature sets I found my attention wandering , which is very unfair because this is a good movie . Heavily censored upon initial release this is a dark and cold film where everyone appears to be on the make or damaged in someway . ( The cut material is included as an extra in the Criterion set ; which also has an excellent commentary ) . I really do like the movie , I only wish I had watched it spaced days apart from its co feature not minutes .
Okay Mystery	Years ago fortune hunter ran a foul of an Indian cult . Now years later he calls together the backers of his trip to try and make amends and to make right what happened . Or so he says . Actually there's more going on here than meets the eye , not to mention a potentially murderous gorilla . This is a very good , completely unremarkable and completely forgettable movie that is probably destined to end up lost in your memory . I know I have a hell of a hard time remembering which movie this is every time I run across it in my movie collection . I have to put it on to see what it is and more times than not I'll leave it on . Its not one that I actively search out to watch , even though I've seen it numerous times . Should you get the chance , you might want to give it a try , just don't expect to remember it in the morning .
Good little thriller	Atmospheric vampire of story about a vampire who comes to a small town in order to secure a heart for the girl he loves . Its an eerie little film , a bit silly at times , but entirely watchable . It won't scare you but it will keep you watching ( its more vampire drama than horror film ) . Its a stand out little film that has the feel of a specific time and place that is uniquely its own . Set now , we see cars and trucks and guns the film has a decidedly Gothic feel and at times seems to be set in the 1860's rather than the 1960s . There is a religious nature in the film adds more weight to the proceedings . The film builds up a nice sense of good versus evil and of God vs the devil , even though we sympathize with our villain . Few films have a villain as well drawn as this one does , you hate him but you like and understand him . The most memorable thing about the film , aside from the bald vampire , is that much of the film was shot in black and white and then tinted red or blue depending upon what was happening in the scene . Even though its odd to see at first , it does begin to add something to the film when you realize that the tints actually correspond to certain events in the film , and that people in the film react as if aware of the tinting . I didn't get it when I originally saw the film on TV ( which apparently had the wrong scenes tinted ) nor did I pick it up on the first go through of the recent Image DVD . It was only after listening to the commentary track that I really was made aware of how the right tints actually help the film seem creepier . Not a classic , but a its a good little thriller .
Dated but Fun	Wheeler and Woolsey play two service men during the First World War and go AWOL in Paris changing identities as they go to avoid being captured . How good they are at not being caught is best summed up early in the film when the steal their image off a photograph . Its lunacy from an earlier era and at times its quite funny . The duo made numerous film through the mid 1930's stopping only when Woolsey died of kidney failure . This is a film thats not quite on par with the duos later films . Thats not to say its not funny , it is ; its just that films were still feeling their way around sound and so the cameras often had limited motion and set ups which make them feel stiff . If you can get past that feeling and want to see an under appreciated comedy duo then rent this or any of the other Wheeler and Woolsey films .
Funny but Imperfect Hollywood Comedy / Romance	Atterbury Dodd is opposed to his New York banker bosses selling off Colossal Studios for only half of what he thinks its worth . Being the first person ever to stand up to the big boss he's sent off to see whats going on with the seemingly failing studio . Once there he finds that the buyer is manipulating the latest Colossal movie into being a turkey so he can buy the studio cheap and turn a profit when he closes it down . Dodd also runs into Miss Plum who will soon becomes Dodd's guide through the madness of film making . Much of the film is concerned with Dodd dealing with the insanity of film studios while not realizing that he's falling in love with Miss Plum . The last third of the film concerns efforts to turn save the studio and the film . This is really a Leslie Howard movie . Howard and Joan Blondell , as Miss Plum are a wonderful screen couple and one wishes there was even more time of them together . Although Humphrey Bogart is listed third he's in maybe 20 minutes of this often funny film . He is wonderful in a the role of the previous studio head and producer of the turkey in the making . The film is filled with funny lines and fleeting appearances , Charles Middleton is a scream ; as is a stuntman who refuses to do his stunt for money . This is a funny funny movie especially if you love old movies . The problem is that the film is at times unfocused . Is it a comedy ? A Romance ? The sequences with the villain seem to be from another movie . I question why some of the characters are allowed to be so annoying , Potts , the publicity man in particular , is the screen version of fingernails on a blackboard . I'm sure there were people like that in Hollywood , but I never want to meet them . I also have a problem with the ending which ends too soon for my tastes . Still this is 90 minutes of great fun , especially if you love old films . Worth seeking out , possibly even buying . with spikes of truly wonderful moments ( Going under the table for one )
A good version of the story	This film , like the play that it comes from asked the audience to keep the secret of the Bat secret so I will do the same and so I'll only speak in generalities . One of the grand old dark house films this is the story of the super criminal known as The Bat and his attempt to steal a great fortune . This film isn't the best ever made . The passage of time has diminished its impact a bit . Part of the problem is that at times the film has to wrestle with its stage origins , things seem to stagnate and you become bored . However at other times this film soars with a visual style that has rarely been matched . The mask of the villain for example hasn't been equaled . Thankfully its always watchable . Certainly worth a look .
Even if you don't like the man you will learn to respect him	This is a warts and all look at Nader's career from when he was pushing for auto safety through his Presidential runs . This is an interesting look at the man and his passion to do what he felt was right . He changed the country and the world for the better and made things much more safer for all of us . An uncompromising fellow , Nader my way or the highway stances lost him friends when some of his " raiders " went into politics in the Carter Administration and didn't do what he felt was right . More recently Democrats who needed a scapegoat . blame him for the election and re-election of George W Bush ( Which is probably true on some level ) . Big Business of course hates his guts . Watching the film I still find that I admire the man , however I don't necessarily like him , his pit bull mentality seems to have created the sort of fellow you'd want to punch in the face occasionally just because its probably the only way to make him listen . For those who want to see who the last four decades of " consumer " issues have played out this is must see TV , for anyone else who simply wants to spend time with a real character are also encouraged to take a look see .
Off the rails comedy / action / romance is full of wild action and humor but is wounded by a disjointed narrative that starts and stops at will	Another go round with the monkey king going west . . . . sort of . Beginning in the middle of some action the movie just goes from the first frame onward . A monk and his three disciples go to a town to get the sacred suras that will bring peace to the world once they are translated and spoken to the world . But an evil force has intervened and kidnapped all of the children of the town . The evil force wants the monk because if you eat him you will live forever . The retainers battle the forces of darkness before forcibly sending the monk off for safety ( The monk thinks he can win simply by reasoning with the bad guys ) . The monk ends up with a bunch of lizard imps who plan at some point eating him . . . however the bad guys arrive and he's off an odyssey with the ugliest of the lot . Can a movie that starts off the rails go off the rails ? Don't get me wrong I really liked this movie but its so scatter shot and all over the place that plot and logic simply fall away as some scenes simply pick up mid action with no way of knowing how we got there ( The final battle to rescue the disciples is completely out of left field ) . This is one of the messiest movies I've seen in a while , but it made me laugh and smile like no get out . The movie starts and you have no idea where things are and then whats on screen is either interesting or funny and you just go with it . How do we get from thing to thing is often beyond me . Its full of odd asides and strange references as we go from heaven to the ocean to space to the rib cage of some mythic beast to god knows where . This movie floats all over the place which helps keep it fun since you don't know where it will end up ( and is the reason " m keeping details to a minimum ) And its funny . Very very funny at times . And the action is very good , even if a good chunk of it is unabashed CGI animation ( which provides for some cool images , the golden staff , the spider attack formation , the angel in flight . . . ) And its very touching . Action and comedy aside this is actually a wonderful love story . Its the story of an ugly imp and a monk who end up falling in love ( and having other complications ) . Its a interesting look at the nature of love and what is true love . You will be moved . However much I enjoyed it I was still annoyed by its scatter shot construction . The films inability to hold its ideas together and to tell a complete story really hurts the film and takes away from the enjoyment every time we get to a bump in the road . the bumps take you out of the movie itself and make you realize how much is being cribbed from other sources . Absolutely worth seeing since it does have many choice moments , just be prepared for some bumps and you'll have a good time .
heady film will make you think about how you see the earth , the universe and people	Werner Herzog's science fantasy about a trip to a far off planet . The plot concerns an alien played by Brad Dourif , who has come to this world from Andromeda when his world begins to die . He out lines the story of his time on earth and of our trip to his far off world . Consisting of new footage by Herzog the film also contains a great deal of footage from a space shuttle mission as well as images from under the Antarctic ice . Its a strangely hypnotic film thats often a head trip as we are forced to look at our own world as something , somewhere than what it is . This is a heady mix of facts and fictions mixed with beautiful images set to some intriguing vocal and cello music ( think Tibetan throat songs ) . For much of the film the mix works as we begin to see believe that the aliens are here and that we sent a mission that went there . The problem with the film is that there are long passages , particularly with the space shuttle stuff where its nothing but image and singing . It would be fine if there was a change of image but Herzog holds the images , say of an astronaut jogging , much too long . I don't why he felt the need to use all of the footage that was shot of some subjects . It will drive you to the point of slumber . Which isn't to say the film is bad . Its not . the dialog , well monologue is very witty and contains some great quotes . It also presents a few facts , about distance and our ability to bridge it that is wickedly disheartening for people looking to jump in a ship one day and travel far away , while at the same time opening you up to the possibility of actually doing it . Ultimately this is a movie that you will think about for a long time after you see it .
Very gory and very bloody horror film is better than most horror films from Hollywood and worth a look	Last Project Greenlight film is a really bloody , really gory , very funny ( in a sick way ) horror film that messes with your expectations over and over again . The plot of the film is simple , late one night at an isolated road house populated by various people , a man runs in and says that a Hellstorm of trouble is coming and that they need to lock the windows and doors . What then transpires is that monsters attack and everyone tries to stay alive . Simple . What happens is that the film plays with conventions over and over again as it sets up your expectations and knocks them down . The first half hour is incredible since the film just moves and you aren't allowed to breath as you are battered by jokes , gore and things that movies don't readily do . Its brilliant . After about a half an hour the film settles into the siege and things slacken off . Its not bad , but there is too much talk and not enough action . And its bloody . I mean really really bloody and gory and violent . If you don't like that sort of thing do not watch this movie . I really like this film because it does what it wants it set out to be it goes for it like gangbusters . Its amazing that the film works since apparently , like all of the Project Greenlight films this was suppose to fail . the idea was to make great TV and not great movies . If you've seen the first two films that were made for the series the films were just okay but you really can't imagine them having much of a life . Feast was suppose to be like that . Get a " loser " for a director and take a nothing script and watch it all blow up . the problem was that the film actually turned out pretty good . The film had been described to me as a really good film that was better than most of the Hollywood horror films of late , which having seen the film is the perfect way to describe the movie . If you're a horror fan you really should see this . Other people may or may not like it based on their tolerance for the red stuff .
Another Dark and Stormy Night	On their way to a country house to hear a new play being read a theatrical producer , his secretary , and the playwright end up stuck in the mud . They make their way to a nearby house , only to end up at the home of the playwright's fiance . If you can't guess that murder and mayhem are about to take place then you haven't been paying attention . This is a a good entry in the old dark house genre . Not only does it have a good mystery , you also have some very funny one liners wandering through it . The cast is across the board excellent and they're more than willing to have a good time with what is good material . I would love to say that this is one of the best of the genre , it should have been , but for me something happened on the way that made me down grade the rating to only . I can't tell you what it is , not for certain anyway . Perhaps its the sense that I knew where it was going almost from the outset , or perhaps its something else , I'm not sure what , but there was something that I couldn't shake that made me like this film despite wanting to love it . It just missed being great and somehow fell short . That said I DO SUGGEST YOU SEE IT . It is after all a very witty film , that entertains fully , despite just missing being great .
How'd this end up with sequels ?	Not that I'm complaining , I watched the three Taxi films out of order and find this is the weakest . This is the film that sets the series in motion , new taxi driver ends up mixed up with a semi-failure cop after he gives the cop's Mom a ride . Its a formula movie with some funny spots but so much time is lost to set up , something the later films didn't need to do . While its not a bad film , it certainly isn't the other films which are much more manic than this one . Try it , but realize the better films come after this one .
One of the better films that appeared in the wake of James Bond	1966 re-imagining of Bulldog Drummond in the James Bond mold . Drummond was created in a series of stories by Sapper . He was a British soldier of fortune between the world wars who fell into one crime related tale after another . They were made into a series of films in the 30's with various people playing Drummond including Ronald Coleman and Ray Miland . Other people like Reginald Denny and John Barrymore played in support . It was for the most part a very fun series . In Deadlier than the Male Drummond ( here played by Richard Johnson ) is a trouble shooting attorney investigating a series of " accidents " which he suspects are murder . The trail leads to a group of women who seem to be able to fix any problem for a price , actually a million pounds . The film is a very good little crime action film , certainly its better than many spy films that appeared in the wake of the Bond films . There are many beautiful women , numerous witty remarks and a good number of action set pieces that are atypical in their implied violence ( the torture of Drummond's nephew for example ) . I liked that there is a realism that the Bond films rarely had . there are no gadgets as such , though there is a life size steel chess set that figures into the plot towards the end that is amazing-especially since there was no CGI used ( hey this was 1966 ) . I liked this film a great deal . Keep an eye out for this gem on DVD or on cable , its worth taking the time to see it .
One of the best endings ever	I suppose saying that the end of this movie is great gives something away . Then again you don't know what that is so maybe not . The plot of this film has Kirk Douglas dying as all of his relatives try to curry favor and get left his fortune . When every trick in the book fails they call in Michael J Fox as his long lost favorite nephew . Fox is now a down on his luck pro-bowler desperate for the cash the family promises him . Some of what follows is sit-com material , some is highly inspired . The good part of it is that almost all of it is funny . Certainly the film as a whole is not the best thing down the pike , but it has its moments , all of which make this film worth seeing .
A good film that you've probably never heard of and that deserves your attention , especially if you love films about horses .	Its a sad commentary on American film viewing that most films from Asia not having to do with action or horror are completely left out of the loop . This is a very good movie that deserves a bigger audience in the States and elsewhere . The story of the film , very briefly , goes as follows : A girl who's mother was a jockey and who died in a riding accident , grows up with a passion for horses and a desire to follow in her mothers footsteps . Of course her father disapproves but she pursues her dream anyway . This Korean family film is quite possibly the best looking film about horses ever made . This is a rich and gorgeous visual experience that is a joy to behold . I have never seen horses look this good ever . If you think horses are beautiful magical creatures this film is for you . The cast is first rate with everyone turning in excellent performances , including the horses . I don't know if its clever editing or if the film makers got some remarkable horses but there are times when the horses seem to be keeping up with the humans on screen . Just watch the early scenes between the young version of our heroine and General , one of the horses , its a dead heat as to who is giving the better and more charming performance . The story is equally good even when it moves into clichéd territory . It does have some cliché to it , it is after all a film about a girl and her horse , but that more par for the course than anything else . At the same time the film takes some atypical turns with some darker happenings that most western films would never touch ( its not always happy ) . I really liked this movie . How much ? I had picked this film up with the intention of taking a quick look at it before handing it to a horse loving friend . . . well is not getting it , except as a loaner . Not perfect , but definitely worth a look .
Story gets swallowed by the opulence of the visuals	Court intrigue in the Forbidden City . Gong Li and Chow Yun Fat turn in some of their best work in ages as a couple at war with each other in this good semi-epic . The plot has the Emperor and his wife at war with each other . The Emperor would prefer his wife to quietly expire , while his wife would rather not . Add to the mix clandestine love affairs involving the sons and you have a volatile mix thats sure to lead everyone to a bad end . Fantastically shot this movie was a shoe in to get technical Oscar noms for its look . This is a movie thats a feast for the eye . Its attention to detail in the day today running of the palace is mind blowing . The running of any royal court never looked so good , nor so machine like . Its amazing . The place where the movie gets into trouble , and certainly the place where most , if not all of the negative reviews have come from is the fact that this is a small scale story inflated to look like a grand epic . Don't get me wrong I love the look of the film and I love that the movie allows Chow and Gong to really act , but this is a smallish scale story set in the royal court of China . This is not Hero or House of Flying Daggers , its probably closer to Raise the Red Lantern , Ju Dou or even Traveling Alone for Thousands of Miles . The story gets swallowed somewhat by the opulence of the visuals . Honestly you get distracted from the story by the " oh wow ! Cool ! " visuals . This isn't to say that the movie is bad , its not . Its actually quite good , the problem is that its kind of hard to concentrate on the story when director Yimou Zhang keeps showing you sparkly things as the cast is going through their paces . The movie is made in such away that you have to see it twice , once to get past the eye candy and once to really watch the story . Absolutely worth seeing .
Harmless dress up comedy in the style of Tootsie or Mr Doubtfire	This is the story of a would be theatrical producer who somehow manages to arrange financing for a show despite barely having enough money for the rent . When one of the backers fails to show up one of the producer's friends is forced to pretend to be the missing backer so that the show can go on . Low Key and Funny , with some great music , this is a wonderful movie just to plop down in front of when you don't want to think . While the plot has been done to death by Hollywood there is something about this pass through the well worn territory that keeps it interesting . Perhaps its the fact that other than the actor who played the Kingfish on TV's Amos and Andy we probably haven't seen most of these actors before so we have no notion as to what anyone might do . Definitely worth a bag of popcorn and a cup of soda for a slow night before the tube .
A small treasure of a crime film . But if Rourke's partner wasn't such a jerk this would have been a minor classic	Mickey Rourke is a mafia hit man who runs into a young hot head who reminds him of his brother . When the hotheads plan for quick cash goes wrong the pair are seen by Diane Lane and her soon to be ex-husband , Thomas Jane . Rourke knows that no one who sees him in action can't live and the pair head off to remove the witnesses . Small scale Elmore Leonard adaption is a small treasure of a film . Its a well acted film about a bunch of damaged people ( everyone seems to be walking wounded ) , who get caught up in some dark business . It is in its way almost a modern film noir . I should probably point out that those looking for the humor of Get Shorty or Jackie Brown are going to be shocked by the darker tone . Though far from a great film ( the hot head is such a jerk you don't know why Rourke hooks up with him when he's clearly trouble , nor why he doesn't pop him not long after that ) this is a solid little thriller thats perfect for curling up with on a Saturday night . I liked the film a great deal and know that it will end up in my collection once the DVD comes out . Worth a look either on DVD or cable .
A Fun Old Dark House Film	Based on a play that was filmed four years earlier by the same director this is a wonderful film that is hampered only by the limitations of sound . That said this is probably the best version of the story . A fiend known as The Bat is lurking around the mansion of a rich family and its up to an intrepid detective to prevent him from getting the goods . This movie is a lot of fun , with several wonderful performances especially by Chester Morris as the detective . Interestingly the film was filmed both in the standard aspect ratio and in an early wide screen process ( Both are on the DVD ) . The films are more or less identical , but since they were taken from different takes they both play like two different nights of the same play . I like this film a great deal and recommend it to anyone who likes the Old Dark House genre .
Good screen adaptation of the now classic Broadway musical	Returning from a long time at sea Sweeney Todd returns to London looking for the family that was taken from him . When he finds his wife dead and daughter the ward of the Judge that framed him he plots revenge with the aid of Mrs Lovett , his landlady and the owner of a shop that sells meat pies . Tim Burton's adaption of the Stephen Sondheim Musical is a ghoulish tour de force . This is a largely sung story that has been given the grand treatment by Burton and his crew . Coming on the heels of a very stripped down version that recently played Broadway where the actors played all the instruments and the whole story seemed to be being performed by inmates in a single room asylum , this is a big huge production where we are in all of the streets and back alleys of London . This is a throw back in size and scale to the musicals of old . The wide scale opening up of the play works wonders so that when we close in to Sweeney's and Mrs Lovett's small rooms we feel how trapped they are by circumstance and poverty . As a technical achievement the film is a masterpiece and one of the best things that Tim Burton has put together . The cast is a mixed bag . Everyone is good but some people are better than others , with Helena Bonham Carter probably the weakest vocally as Mrs Lovett . Her physical performance is quite good , but vocally she can be quite shrill . Johnnie Depp is wonderful as Todd , but its clear that as good an actor and singer he is he couldn't do this on stage ( I know one should not compare stage and screen but with this show its hard not to ) . The one person who amazed me was Sacha Baron Cohen as Pirelli a rival to Todd . He is pretty much note perfect in his performance . If I have any real qualms with the film its the source material . I am not a Sondheim fan . I do like this musical , owing no doubt to ts ghoulish nature , but I've never loved . There are simply things in the show that didn't work for me on stage so didn't work for me here either . Even though I'm not fully enraptured of the films source , the film is certainly worth seeing , Though be warned the film is VERY bloody . The reason the film is rated R is because of the blood that is spilled . for me and my reservations for everyone else
Solid little thriller	I can't say how accurate this film is , after all its based on a novel and not history , but this tale of undoing the German Enigma code during the Second World War is a good way to spend a couple of hours . I had read mixed reviews of this film , but its recently showed up on cable and having run across it a couple of times I've found that I'm stopping to watch it each time I do so . Its much better than the poor reviews I read made it out to be . The cast is great without a bad performance in the bunch . I recommend this film . Its not something that you need search out , but should you stumble upon it , as I have been doing so , I do suggest that you stop and watch .
What starts as a tale of a mother looking for her child becomes a larger tale of police run amok	( Spoilers Ahead ) Clint Eastwood's first of two films for 2008 is a large scale story of a woman looking for her son and what happens when she collides with the the people who are suppose to be keeping the peace and protecting the innocent . Based on what is known as the Wineville Chicken Coop Murders but with some changes to the events , the film is nominally the story of Christine Collins , a single mother who's son Walter goes missing . Collins played by Angelina Jolie does everything she can to draw attention to her plight in the hopes that someone will help her find her son . When a Boy across the country turns up saying he is her son she is at first thrilled , until the boy arrives on the train and she instantly realizes that the boy isn't her own . No one will listen to her except Rev . Gustav Briegleb , played by John Malkovich . Briegleb has it in for the police and their tactics and he uses his pulpit and his radio show to take them to task . However as time goes on Mrs Collins is seen as a problem and is promptly sent to a mental institution . From there the story spins out as it comes to light that the fate of Walter may not have not a pleasant one and the plight of Christine reverberates on a larger scale . Oddly promoted to focus on the Christine Collins story which is the line through the story on which everything hangs , this is actually a much larger story than is advertised . Most of the scenes that were used to promote the film come from the first hour , during which time the focus is squarely on Jolie . The second half of the film focus's on the discovery of the murders and how that coupled with the publicity about Christine shake Los Angeles and its police force . Angelina Jolie is good , but not great as Christine Collins . I do feel for her and her plight but there are times I found the performance , like some of the first hour , rather one note . I do think the problem is not so much with Jolie rather with director Eastwood ( and writer J . Michael Straczynski ) who is a much too lax in the telling of the early part of the story . I found that I could guess the shots he was going to use and I knew what we'd see , say a young boy running out side the trolley . He's using clichés to set up a complex story and it hurts the film since there are times the film doesn't feel special . Unfortunately Jolie's performance never fully recovers and its only in the final passages of the film that I think she recovers her footing . About an hour in as the story begins to move away from the Jolie story and we begin to see how larger forces are at work . First there is a dangerous killer on the loose and secondly the police begin to have to backtrack and circle the wagons to protect themselves . Its here on the larger stage that the film begins to come to life . certainly the story of Christine and her search for Walter remains the primary focus , but the story takes on larger implications which make the film very much better . The film varies from the actual story in a couple of ways which I won't get into here since that would spoil things if you haven't seen the movie . To be honest I had a hard time getting through the first hour of this film . There were moments where I cared but for the most part I kind of felt I knew where it was going . I don't blame it on knowing the story , rather I think its because , as I said earlier , most of the promotional material , clips and stills and such , all come from the first hour . Its like watching a movie after the commercial gave everything away . However once the second hour rolls around and the story begins to move away from the scenes that I had seen a dozen times before the film picks up momentum and cruises along nicely to the end . This is a good film by Eastwood and worth seeing . I don't think its one of his best films , but then again it doesn't have to be . 7 ish out of 10 .
Actually quite good if you give yourself over to it	This should have retained the title Sineater since thats more to the point of what the film is about . This is one of those movies that shows signs of being tinkered with , mostly in that chunks of it don't make sense , or a sense that seems to have been cut out . Basically the film has Heath Ledger as a priest going to Rome to investigate the death of the head of his order . Its more complicated than that , and for a good chunk of it , it doesn't make sense , not that it ever fully does . Frankly for good or bad this film is going to stay with me for a long time . Its not what ever it was advertised as , its an occult mystery thats closer to the Club Dumas , the source of the Johnny Depp movie , the 9th Gate , than to a conventional horror film . I like the film . Its very flawed but its interesting enough and raises some good questions about salvation and the church . If you want to try something different , and don't mind that its not perfect , I say try this . ( forgive me there is an urge to wax poetic about bits of it . . . )
Good political thriller is worth trying	I'm trying to figure out what this film is doing in a DVD collection called Tales of Voodoo where its paired with a movie called Scorpion Thunderbolt ( which is about a killer snake-man ) since the two films have nothing in common and this film has nothing to do with voodoo . I've tried to work out the connection , but I'm not sure I'll ever figure it out . I'm just glad it happened since I would not have run across this very good tale of a political prisoner on the run . Jason Miller stars as the prisoner who manages to escape from a prison work detail when an accident on the road gives him a chance to flee . He is pursued and is recaptured , but circumstance again gives him an opportunity for freedom , which he takes , only he still finds himself being chased by one of the dogs . Far from as simple or as simple minded as I've made it out to be this is a good thriller / allegory . Things don't always go the way you expect ( especially if you're like me and were expecting a schlocky exploitation film ) . This is a movie thats both entertaining and enlightening . Certainly worth trying f you're in the mood for something other than typical exploitation fare .
Insane retelling of what really was going on with that visit to Grandma's house	Rashamon like story of Little Red Riding Hood seeks to get to the bottom of that tale as well as the theft of all of the recipes from all of the goodie shops in the forest . Silly , clever , very funny . This is a movie that sort of blindsides you with the intelligence behind it all . The jokes are as constant as the wisecracks and they very often come perfectly out of left field . What I saw in the commercials or read in the reviews did not prepare me for what I saw on screen , which is good since most movies of late have been ending up ruined by too much TV exposure . I'm hesitant to say anything about the jokes since this is a film probably best discovered on your own , though I will warn you that it might be dangerous to give coffee to a squirrel . On the down side this film has way too many balls in the air , with way too many characters wandering through . Its not bad , in that it allows for a constant stream of madness , but it does make the movie seem like it can't hold it all together and will explode at any moment . If you like like your animation full of insanity , see this movie , and even if you don't see it too , because its very funny .
Offbeat thriller concerning a blown up plane is a good way to spend an hour	The plot of this film revolves around " 3 Star " a show-offy pilot at an airport . 3 Star likes to drink and likes to gamble as well as show off . Even though he's been grounded because of his stunts , 3 Star is brought in to fly a very important scientist to deliver his new explosive to the government . 3 Star is waylaid before the flight and another pilot is substituted by the bad guys . When the plane explodes in mid air its a race to find the wreckage and the cylinder containing the explosive before the bad guys do . This is a breezy 60 minutes thats more than likely to keep you interested to the end . Although the plot may sound clichéd the characters and their interactions are not . Every character is quirky , but in a non-clichéd sort of way . 3 Star's gambling is atypical Hollywood , I don't know when I ever saw a character who said that he had been locked up for two days for gambling . The romance is decidedly off center , though it is very real . There seems to be more going on than just witty repartee between Judy and 3 Star , and they seem to have a long history before the film started that you can feel ( which is something I rarely sense even in better movies ) . I liked this movie a great deal . Granted its not the best movie ever made , but as a breezy hour long thriller its worth taking the time out to try .
Pre-code musical murder mystery comedy done in by the music	During the opening night of the Vanties a woman is found dead on the catwalk above the stage . As the show continues the police attempt to piece together who killed who and why before the final curtain . I had always heard that this was a great classic comedy mystery so I was excited to find myself a copy . Unfortunately no one told me about the musical numbers which go on and on and on . While the numbers certainly are the type that Hollywood did in their glory days , they become intrusive because they pretty much stop the movie dead despite attempts to weave action around them . This wouldn't be so bad if the music was half way decent , but its not . There is only one good song . Worse its as if the studio knew they had one song , Cocktails for Two , and we're forced to endure four versions of it : a duet , a big production number , as the Vanities finale and in the background as incidental music . I don't think Spike Jones and His City Slickers ever played it that much . The rest of the movie is pretty good with Victor McLaglen sparring nicely with Jack Oakie . Charles Middleton is very funny is his scenes as an actor in love with the wardrobe mistress . By no mean essential I can recommend this if you think you can get through the musical numbers , or are willing to scan through them . Its a fun movie of the sort they don't make any more .
Once it gets going this is a great film	Xmen what have you wrought ? Government experiments have produced a bunch of psychically empowered kids and young adults who are hunted by the government who want to use them as ultimate weapons . After too much explanation the film settles down into being a really good scifi action adventure as our heroes try to turn the tables on their pursuers ( Both governmental and criminal ) . I'm explaining it badly , but trust me this is a much better film than it sounds like , or even than the trailers made it look like . Hats off to filmmakers shooting this film in Asia since the look gives the film a real sense of place . I think its worth a shot . ( I thought it was much better than the similar Jumpers )
Arty Sexy Erotic Thriller That is Almost Great	The plot is simple two girls , one with yellow hair and one with orange hair pick up a guy in a club and they end up involved with him . When its revealed that he has a girlfriend he wants to return to things get ugly . I'm of mixed feelings about this movie . Its a beautiful movie with sexy women , a tense story and a great artistic and music sense ( I love the club scenes ) . The problem is that somehow it never comes together enough to be as good as the combination of its parts . Don't get me wrong its good , especially if you like sexy thrillers . I'm just annoyed that in some ways it simply refuses to be more than just an exploitive thriller instead of rising to something else , which it seems capable of doing since it has all of the material there . This isn't a bad thing , since the film as it stands now is a very good thriller , but some how I thought it could be and should be more , though I don't know what it would have taken to make it cross the line into greatness . Reservations aside , I think this is worth a shot especially if you like sexy thrillers . Certainly its infinitely better than most of the American and Euro crap that shows up late on Friday and Saturday nights on stations like Cinemax on their " adult " movie blocks .
Very Good But Too Short	The story is a slightly updated story of the legendary Moonstone gem coming into the possession of a young girl and then disappearing as thieves and assorted others try to make off with it . The two prints that I've seen of this movie run only 45 minutes , so I'm not certain what the full running time is , or was , but film while seeming rushed at the end , seems to have everything in it . But the biggest problem is that it is rushed . After almost a half a hour of slow building set up the gem disappears and it races through to the end as a police procedural to find the culprit . The performances are very good and they make watching this brief mystery fun to watch . Definitely worth your time - especially if you're pressed for time . ( If you come across the Alpha Video version pick it up since its paired with the equally good Murder at Midnight )
Good but not great remake	Gospel version of the Bishops Wife about an angel who comes down to help a clergyman find direction in a battle between family and the pressures of his job . Denzel as an angel is inspired casting . Actually the cast is uniformly good , I only wish the script hadn't let them down . I supposed the fact that 50 years had passed since the first film required that some changes be made to the script and plot , but did they really have to move in the direction of TV movies ? Its good but things could have been so much better , and I'm not saying that as a fan of the original . Certainly worth seeing but given the choice see the original since it will make you feel good all over for days , this one does the same thing , but only for its running time .
Just see the movie	I enjoyed this movie a great deal . The acting was excellent across the board and the story about the relationship of two school teachers and what transpires between them is involving . The problem for me was that in reading the reviews for the film I found that the reviewers revealed way too much about the plot . I found this to be one of those times when it was best to know as little as possible going in since there was a chance that knowing plot points might signal later revelations . Simply put the reviewers said too much so after a certain point it became clear what was going to happen , The result was that I enjoyed the film less than I might have other wise . Take my advice ignore what people say about the film and just see it
Very good adaptation of the tale even if it shows its stage bound origins .	This version of Jekyll and Hyde has its origins in a stage production of the novel . This is part of the films flaw in that the acting seems to have been pulled right off the stage rather than coming from real life . This shouldn't put you off from seeing this movie since its quite good and is possibly one of the finer adaptations of the story . Sticking closer to the book , or so it seems , it tries to unravel the weird story with Jeykll and Hyde taking up less of the limelight . This is two friends trying to hash out whats going on . Its a refreshing take on the tale and adds nice shading to everything thats going on . Out side of the stage acting that some people use this film really has no flaws other than a bit too much of the chroma-key or blue screen effects that it uses to supplement its backgrounds . There's nothing wrong with it , but it seems to have been over used sand at times I felt like I was watching a video game rather than a movie . Ultimately this is a film to put on your must see list especially if you want to see a good version of a literary classic .
Good performances are hurt by a contrived plot	George Clooney is Michael Clayton , fixer for a big New York law firm . As talk of a merger is leaving Clayton with an uncertain future , his plans to open a bar as an escape are sinking . As doubts about the future mount his firm needs him to bail out and rein in a litigation partner who's gone crazy and who is threatening to blow a massive class action settlement and suit . Unfortunately there are other forces at work . . . Clooney has been picked as an Oscar favorite for his work here and I'm pretty sure that his work will probably get a nomination . Its quite good , especially in the second half of the film . I'd like to put Sydney Pollack up for a nomination as well as a neat little turn as the law firm founding partner and watchman over Clayton . He's the right mix of friend and foe that many law firm partners have . Its clear that he is both a slime and a good guy , depending upon which end of his life you end up on . Its a nice performance that is too good to get lost ( which it will if people don't mention it ) . The film itself is good but not great . Its a solid little story that thinks its more clever than it is . Well made its not really well plotted . Its not the burnout uncertainty story line thats the problem is the Tilda Swinton / dark forces storyline . Its at this point I run into a problem in that in order to discuss the flaws of the film I have to discuss the details of the plot . Unfortunately in order to do so would kind of make seeing the film redundant , so I won't since this is worth seeing somewhere other than at a full movie theater price . Suffice to say that some of what happens happens only to drive the plot and to get to the conclusion . I like the film but dislike the contrived nature of the story line . See the film and bear with it since it gets better as goes on . 6 . , for IMDb purposes
Despite being a film aimed at small kids , this film has a great animated lead and several moments of real movie magic	( This review is based upon seeing the film in Chinese without benefit of English subtitles ) A young boy who dreams too much is often the laughing stock of his class . One day while fishing he reels in a magic gourd that talks and is granted what ever he wants . A good Disney film from China , that I'm betting won't be seen in the US which is a shame . Though the story is aimed for young kids , the film still scores high points because the acting of the kid and the character animation of the gourd and the frog are excellent . The animated characters are real characters and I for one completely bought that gourd was wandering around . It helps that the actor doing the voice seems to be playing it straight , which is great . To be honest the animation here is some of the best character animation that Disney has released . I'd love to see this in English since I think this could really work for English speaking audiences . I saw this in Chinese sans English subtitles and it worked for me . ( Apparently there is a subtitled version out there but I haven't found it yet ) Here's a film that with a good translation or rewriting could be nice hit on DVD ( I'm trying to think what writer could do the film justice ) . There is a genuine sense of wonder and magic in many sequences in ways that Disney US hasn't managed to manufacture in quite sometime . Sue me I loved the room full of toys , the gourd on a bird , and the out takes . To be certain the film is a bit too innocent for some audiences , and the denouncement could be seen at the start , but if you take this film for what it is I think you'll have a good time . I really liked this a great deal . ( Addendum : This comes out in the US on DVD in January 2009 )
Better than the title suggests	Good B-scifi film with an awful title . The plot has an alien race trying to build a worm hole terminal on earth so they can leave their dying planet and forcibly take over the earth . They only thing stopping them is an single alien who wants revenge . What can I say its turn your brain off time at the old homestead . The best way to describe this is a way better than average SCIFI Channel original film . Its a better than average TV movie that just works with in its limits and goes . Certainly its nothing you haven't seen before but its sense of seriousness makes it worth your time in front of the TV screen . If there is any flaw its the invulnerability the aliens have , it kind of takes the edge off the danger . Still if this had a better title people would be eating this up .
Red Scare of the most absurd kind	A bunch of people sitting in a bar find themselves suddenly witnessing the Red invasion of America . As the commies take over life for everyone becomes a living hell and every cold war stereotype is trotted out for us to boo and hiss , before the final and revelation ( which you'll guess way in advance - if its not on the video box ) This is a movie to sit and watch and shake your head at . Popcorn and the beverage of your choice will be spilled as you fall into fits of laughter as people are raped , tortured and forced to do the most absurd things . How did anyone keep a straight face when they made this ? Or were we that gullible ? This movie is a scream . On an enjoyment level its a , on a real level it owes us points , but since enjoyment is all I give it a 7 . When planning your next so bad its good night be sure to include this little gem .
Stay for the end credits	The end credits is a ten minute long cartoon of such incredible beauty that it is a great shame that most people will never watch it . Simply its some of the best animation to come out all year . While I can give the end credits a I can only give the rest of the film a begrudging , although it should probably be a 6 . 5 . Certainly this is a fantastically well made movie , that is for the most part very well acted but something is amiss in the tone of the film and so it never really is what it should be . The story of three children who's parents are killed and who are forced from guardian to guardian by the murderous acts of Count Oloff is pretty bleak . And with a title like " A Series of Unfortunate Events " you really can't expect dancing elves , but the film makers have chosen to add a vein of madcap silliness to the proceedings that works against the rest of the film . It seems as if they were afraid that the material was going to be seen as too dark , which is a shame since its clear from the sequences where they left well enough alone that the film could have stood on its own . Its a good movie , instead of the great one it wants to be . Definitely worth seeing .
Good but not great	Lesbian noir romance about a street wandering painter who almost looks like a man in a feminine sort of way who falls in love with a singer who tries , and fails to keep their romance to one night . As the two spiral together the fact that the singer has other lovers ( in the hopes of furthering her career ) becomes problematic as a jealous man with a thing for the singer won't let go . Good but not great film is like ten thousand other tales except the leads are two women . The change is enough to keep it watchable even when the plot sort of sputters along , though if you're in a less forgiving mood you'll be reaching for the remote . The sex is mostly kissing and hugging so those looking for more graphic thrills best look elsewhere . I particularly liked the fact that the people are not perfect beauties , they have moles and real skin . The painters other lover is wonderfully sexy in her plainness . I think the exchange between the painter and this woman that made me click with the film . In it they remark about how they are both in love with women who aren't their type , the painter speaking of the singer while the lover is speaking of her bed mate . Worth a look if you want a film thats familiar yet a change of pace , though yet again wait for cable since the four bucks I spent to see it wasn't really worth it .
Under-appreciated thriller deserves to be seen-preferably in a widescreen edition	Van Johnson is a blind playwright in London . cranky since he lost his sight he lives a reclusive existence having driven away anyone who cared about him . He's helped along by a butler . One day when he wanders off to a pub he overhears a conversation that leads him to believe that a terrible crime-a kidnapping or murder-is going to take place . When his call to the police gets him nowhere he decides to stop the crime himself , and so with the aide of his butler and his ex-fiancé he tries to get to the bottom of the crime . Shot in a beautiful widescreen that was lost in the pan and scan version I saw ( Its wide at the start and end for the titles ) this is a nifty little thriller that is akin to Hitchcock's films of the 1950's . While it echoes Hitchcock's work it is decidedly its own beast with the plot and events playing out in ways that Hitch never really explored . Johnson's blindness is both a blessing and a curse and a good chunk of the tension comes from not knowing if he's in over his head . The plot is nicely crafted so that , like Johnson and his companions , we are not sure what exactly is being planned . We have to piece things together . The performances are very good with everyone nicely filling out their assigned roles . If there is a problem with the film its that film has the feel of some of the big budget films of the 50's that were made in color and on location so that people would be lured back to theaters in order to see things they couldn't get on TV . Its often too " big " for some of the small moments with shots set up to look good in widescreen , but almost at the cost of the story . Still its a minor complaint and the film looks good in the full screen edition I saw . This is one to look out for , especially if you're a Hitchcock fan , since it appears to be an under appreciated thriller . 7 ish out of 10 .
Second half of the film disappointed me	Akira Kurosawa's 1974 Russian film about man and nature has been sitting on my shelf for years and I finally got around to watching it . The story , told in flashback of a Russian Captain's encounters with a Monoglian hunter named Dersu Uzala as he makes several mapping trips into Siberia . This is a very good film . I would like to report that its a great film but its not . I enjoyed it but to me the story was lacking , I wanted to know more . I also had problems with the second half of the film which seemed to be straining to go into a man made direction instead of one that flowed naturally . The first half flows . I was just going to take a peak at the film only to find that 45 minutes had passed as if in a blink of an eye . The second half of the film is less natural , it moves in fits toward a conclusion we know from the outset of the film , but which is arrived at via a journey that doesn't seem natural . ( the events are fine , its the foreshadowing and thrust to the end that doesn't work . ) Technically this is a beautiful film . . . The march across the ice under a red setting sun is now one of my favorite images . . Don't get me wrong , I like the movie but I don't love it . If you get a chance to see it please do so its a wonderful film , that simply disappointed me in the second half .
Different take on the Falcon character is worth seeing for its snappy dialog and unusual twists	First of three post war Falcon films is very different than the Tom Conway / George Saunders series . Certainly the character is unrelated being named Michael Waring as opposed to Gay or Tom Lawrence . This is an extremely poverty stricken film that looks more like the shot on film TV series from a few years later . Still it manages to score points for being its own little engine of entertainment . The plot has Waring , played by John Calvert as a wise talking , magic doing , detective given 500 dollars by a client to hold on to a key for him . He is to give the key to his attorney when he asks for it . The client it seems has just committed a well publicized murder which he thinks he won't be tried for . Not long after the client is taken into custody Waring begins to be tailed , some one wants the key . Someone also wants his client dead and he somehow murdered in his jail cell . While not the Falcon most of us know , this is a good little mystery . The plot takes a few unexpected turns which coupled with Waring's magic and attitude makes this one to watch despite its cheapness . This is one to find and watch with a big bag of popcorn .
Good mystery and a nice performance Tom Conway	Tom Conway ( brother of George Saunders and damn fine actor in his own right ) takes on the role of Captain Hugh " Bulldog " Drummond in the one of two stabs at Sapper's classic character . The plot of the film has Drummond's friend Algy ( played by One Step Beyond host John Newland ) stumbling into an auction house and buying a model of a ship known as the Flying Dutchman accidentally . What Drummond and his friends quickly learn is that model was made by a sea captain who was found dead , and possibly murdered , the day before . When Drummond refuses to let the ship be sold back to " its rightful " owner , things become complicated as the ship is stolen and another body turns up . Complicating matters is not only the police insistence that Drummond stay out of the affair , but none of the Captain's heirs are being very helpful . Will Drummond get to the bottom of the mess and will he remain alive ? Good B program mystery that is a bit more complicated then the mysteries that Conway faced in his long running role as the Falcon . To be certain you could almost switch the two sleuths with out missing a beat , but at the same time the films are very different in that The Challenge is less jokey and more like a noir film in that anyone of the suspects ( and some that aren't ) could have done the killings . Frankly other than Drummond and his friends you really don't like or trust anyone else ( I mean that in a good way since it keeps you on your toes ) . I like that its pretty much a fast moving tale that keeps you guessing right up to the denouncement . For my money the best Drummond films were the ones made with John Howard in the lead with Heather Angel , Reginald Denny and EE Clive in support . Those films are not so hot mysteries but the chemistry between the characters is choice and covers for the fair mysteries . That said this is a nice reinvention of the character for the screen and certainly worth your time and your popcorn . 7ish out of 10
One of a Kind Muscleman Zen Comedy Police Thriller Comic Book	I'm sitting her slack jawed and wondering what in the hell these people were smoking or ingesting when they made this off kilter little film . To say that this film is unique is an understatement . A body building ex-monk who dances as a male stripper and who can see the future gets mixed up with a police woman going after a killer . Mix in some laughs , comic book villains , some very bloody deaths , some serious action , discussions of the nature of the universe and predestination ; shake well and perhaps , just perhaps you may get an idea of what this film by Johnnie To is like . Then again you may not since this film operates in its own orbit , going from pillar to post on its own crazy course . Its a flawed film , thats so incredibly quirky that it never really seems to pull it all together . Normally not pulling it all together will kill a film , but here you don't really mind simply because it simply being different than pretty much any other film ever made . Its not a bad thing , unless you're looking for a movie that you're going to want to watch more than once . If you want to see a movie thats certainly unlike any other film out there this film is for you . But be warned its bumpy and imperfect and you may hate yourself for liking it in the morning .
Once it gets going its very enjoyable	Nice guy is set up for a murder when he discovers that the oil company he works for isn't on the level and is actually bilking the investors . Aided by the girl who loves him and a priest who's a friend he makes an escape from custody ending up as a boxer while at the same time trying to clear his name . Making very little sense at times , this film becomes an enjoyable romp thanks to some odd twists and great secondary characters all of whom show up about fifteen or twenty minutes in . Its at that point the film goes from something you've seen before and are likely to turn off to something you'll actually want to watch ( possibly even again ) . What can I say I was amused by the mass of people all converging on the murdered man's office to " look for clues " . Very much worth taking the time to see .
A game attempt at aping the Hammer style has produced a film thats decent but unfairly forgotten	The one enduring image from this film that has haunted me across the years is the weird hunchback assistant to the villain . Its an image that was splashed across horror magazines of my childhood . There was something about the twisted fellow with an eye that drooped to his cheek that made you want to see the movie . I never saw the film as a kid and it wasn't until tonight , well into my adulthood , that I managed to see the film . I can't say I was disappointed . The plot concerns Dr John Pierre who is wrongly thrown in jail . He is redirected to the asylum / prison run by Dr Callistratus so that John Pierre can help Callistratus with his experiments concerning blood . As those outside the prison attempt to free him through legal means Pierre is forced to deal with the strange goings on in the prison , including fending off the sadistic Carl , the hunchbacked assistant of Callistratus . Gothic , and grandly over the top in the way that most of the Hammer films weren't this is a cheesy but fun attempt at copying the Hammer Studios formula . It looks and feels very much like Hammer in it styling and plotting ( Then again Jimmy Sangster of Hammer wrote the script ) . Shot in color , the print I saw was well worn and a bit faded . I wonder how this would have looked at the time of its original release . It must have looked great . I loved the sets which were done in such a way as to give the illusion of space , unfortunately it turned every location into spaces the size of football stadiums ( though in several sequences things were much too cramped ) . The whole thing reminded me of the sort of thing you used to run across at 2am on late night TV with too many commercials . Actually as much as I liked the film I do think it is a bit plodding and probably could have used either trimming or a commercial break or two . Strangely this film is very difficult to see . I'm at a loss as to why this film has fallen through the cracks over the last 40 odd years . Its not a bad movie , though it is a tad creaky and of a style they haven't done since Hammer stopped making movies . Perhaps its simply a matter of falling between the cracks in finding a distributor ( it was not done by a " major producer " ) , or more likely the fact that there is no vampire with wings and fangs as promised in the title . What ever the real reason its a shame because this film is worth a look . If you like Hammer style horror or good but rarely seen films , search this one out and give it a try . Its certainly worth a bag of popcorn on a Saturday night watch movies .
Great first half is spoiled by a contrived second	What an odd movie . Actually this is two movies , one great and the other just okay . The first half of this film is the story of Mumbles a penguin who can't sing but can dance . This is the source of most of the promos and its what the studio is pushing as what the film is about . Can the penguin find his heart song if he can't sing ? Well thats the first half of the movie . The second half of the movie is an odd left turn thats foreshadowed , but doesn't really belong , and thats Mumbles attempts to find the " aliens " and make them stop taking the fish . Its a weird detour that puts mumbles in a zoo . I really liked the first half of the film . Its an infectious story about finding your place in the world . Sure its been done to death but the characters and the music push this film from run of the mill into something special . Its a great one hour movie . The second half of this film is another story . Its not the second half of the film its a second film tacked on to make up the running time . The problem is that once Mumbles ends up in the zoo everything is contrived . What happens is done just to get to the ending . It doesn't work . I went from loving the movie to liking it . Yes I know I'm being vague but to really explain why it doesn't work would require explaining the ending and thats not fair . Lets just say that they should have stopped at an hour . Story aside this is probably the best animated computer film ( technically ) I've seen all year . Its amazing . Its simply beautiful to look at and its clear that the animators took great pains to make a visually arresting film . The performances are top notch , with Robin Williams pure joy in two roles . And of course the music is wonderful , with some really nice rearrangements that are so clever it takes you a few minutes to realize what the song is . I highly recommend the first half of this movie . Its magical . The second part has moments , but mostly its contrived nonsense you'll want to push out of your head ( though not the ten thousand penguins dancing to Stevie Wonder ) . Worth a trip to the multiplex if you can ignore the second half . First half is . The second is . Split the difference of 7 for IMDb purposes
Funny , gory crime horror hybrid makes you dread what may happen next	Two brothers kidnap the daughter of a mafia don and take her to cottage in the country . Once there things begin to go horribly wrong and it isn't long before everyone has met the neighbor - the local maniac . Jet black crime horror comedy that stars Andy Serkis ( why isn't he getting bigger roles in bigger movies ? ) that is very funny and very unpleasant . Decidedly over the top this is a film that sends up the conventions of both crime and horror films with equal skill to create an evil hybrid . The problem is that it creates a real tension that is almost to the point where you don't want to watch the film . Not so much that its bad , rather its that even as your laughing whats happening is so uncomfortable you can't watch . Its the cinematic equivalent to comedic cruelty where one person just keeps having bad things happen to them even though they don't deserve it . Granted here the people are crooks , but at the same time you like them enough you don't like to see them stabbed or chopped up . Did I mention its a bloody film ? If you don't like blood or violence look elsewhere . I don't know if I like the film , but at the same time it really is well done and if you like this sort of thing you may want to give it a try .
Taught tight tale of reporters investigating big business starting a war for profit	Cabal of armament manufacturers conspire to wreck a peace conference and start a war for profit and personal reasons . Standing in their way is a pair of newspaper reporters who stumble upon the plot when a fellow reporter is killed to prevent him telling all . Very good fast moving thriller that feels some of the German crime films from the lat 1920's merged with British thrillers of the period . Its almost Hitchcockian in many ways and one could easily imagine the great director directing it himself . The plot is slightly science fictiony with radio controlled planes and large machines but they are merely window dressing as hero and heroine try to get to the bottom of the plot . While not quite perfect its is a nice dark little thriller perfect for a rainy night .
Good little thriller you've probably not heard of but should see	They call it a zombie movie but its not really . Its a creepy little thriller . The plot of this film has a guy running down what was previously typed on a typewriter ( he looked at the ribbon to see what the person before typed ) and ends up dropped in the middle of a rather strange mystery about places where time stops and the dead come back . . . I had read about this in the Italian Zombie movie book and was intrigued . When I happened upon it used at a cheap price I picked it up . It was a good purchase . This is a film with no real gore . Its a film that builds through atmosphere and through twisting circumstances . Its one of those movies that makes you feel uneasy . You know it doesn't make sense but you have to keep watching because there is something about the internal logic that demands it , you watch it even though your skin is crawling and you're shifting uneasily in your chair . No its not the best horror film ever made , but its a damn good one . One I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to anyone who wants a decent thriller . Trust me , as some one some what versed in and tired of what is called typical Italian horror , ie films that make no sense and which are very gory , Zeder is a breath of fresh air . If you're in the mood for something off beat and unexpected in your horror films I'd say rent Zeder , you could do a hell of a lot worse . . . And for those pondering the Pet Semetary angle . . . both this film and Stephen King's book appeared at about the same time
Good low budget action film where the body count seems to be never ending	Bloodbath ? Yes , yes it is . There is truth in the title it is a bloodbathThis is a fast moving and very violent revenge tale of a man returning to Mexico to get revenge on the drug lord who killed his family . Things get even more complicated when our hero ends up having an affair with the drug lord's wife . If you want action this movie is for you . Its rare that more than five minutes pass with out someone dying ( sometimes its less than that ) . Frankly the film is never really boring because something is always happening . Is it a great film ? No but it is an entertaining one because it never stops moving . Definitely worth a look for those wanting a non stop action film and don't mind a low budget .
Better than you think its going to be .	The meeting of two couples for a nice afternoon together spirals out of control as one of the women ends up dead and the repercussions of that event begin to play out in ways no one expects . Small budget independent film that is a nifty little thriller . On some level I was less then thrilled with the film after I saw it but I have to say that not long after I returned the film to the person I got it from I regretted not holding on to it for another viewing . No its not a great film , and perhaps its a bit clichéd , but at the same time there is something about the film that hangs with you . Its one of those movies you watch and then it hits you it was better than you thought . Worth a look if you run across it .
As good as it is this movie annoys me	( These are my thoughts after seeing Spirit in the movies right after it was released ) This movie annoys me . Okay let me back up - - - TWO AND HALF STARS-moments of it are much better . I liked it . Understand that ? I like the film . Where was I ? Oh yea , annoyed me . Why does this movie exist ? Its too long by a half an hour , mostly because its so leisurely . This is a YA book done by Cliff Notes . It got the feel of a Scholastic book brought to life . Not that its bad , it just is so bland . There are great sequences , some of the fort sequence , a lot of the Indian village stuff is all quite good . What has me snackered is that this should have been better . It should have been tighter . Say what you will about Disney films , they would not have made such a rambling film . I am a vocal critic of Disney and its product but I know , in my heart that this wouldn't have been as loose as it is if Disney had done it . Of course we would have had to suffer through talking horses but thats not the point there would have been more meat to this . Why I find it truly bothersome is that because its so loose I found the film much more bitter sweet than its meant to be simply because I could fill in the history of what happens and how things were pointless , the railroad was built , the horses were rounded up and the Indians died , despite the happy ending of the film . I shouldn't have had time to think about that . What also irks me is the mix of computer and regular animation . They spent how much on this and its painfully obvious what is what . It wouldn't have been bad if say they computer stuff had been allowed to be seen as computer animation when it came to humans , or the railway camp ( which except for the train wreck , works ) but its not and I was was watching the melding of the two styles while shaking my head . A lot of it remind me of the truly awful hell sequence from the live action Spawn . Couldn't They have paid someone from Japan to come and sort it out . I mean you were stealing shots from things like ' Night on the Galactic Railway ' or ' Spring and Chaos ' for the train sequences anyway . ( and don't tell me its not stolen and that you can only do it so many way , baloney , they borrowed . ) Whats worse , is that other than making money I see no point to this movie having been made . None . Zippo . Nada . I don't say that about many movies even when I despise them but to me this is a completely pointless movie from top to bottom . Its at best a 45 minute story stretched to almost 90 minutes . And while it doesn't lag , I wished that something unpredictable and truly exciting had occurred for more than thirty seconds at a pop . I do have to say that this is a wonderful proof that you don't need talking animals to have a good movie . ( I said I liked it , I just want BETTER ) The melding of music and image to tell the story is wonderful and I think its the music that makes several of the soaring moments , even if at times even that is a bit clunky . You also have to give points to a movie that begins with the birth of a horse , tastefully done on screen . Disney would have had kittens with that . Forgive me for ripping the movie apart , but it should have been better than good . There are flashes of great here and they deserve a better frame than this . Truthfully if Disney and Dreamworks had done this together it would have been better - - - assuming that they could have both used their strengths . See it at some point , you'll like it , and you'll probably be annoyed it isn't better . You know what it is , I wanted a movie I would remember and not one that slips from memory as one is writing a review .
Too much action and not enough plot in a get the treasure map race across Asia	Korean western set in 1930's Manchuria . The plot basically goes like this a Japanese official sends a treasure map off to one of his agents in China . He also sends a hired killer ( the Bad ) after the agent to steal the map so that he can get paid and keep the map . Unfortunately the map is stolen when a bandit ( the weird ) robs the train . Meanwhile a bounty hunter ( the good ) gets caught up in the mix . ( I'd try to explain more but it would reveal too much and take up too much time . ) Nominal homage to the Clint Eastwood / Sergio Leone films , this is a huge epic film that never stops moving . Its one long chase as the three leads dance around each other as well have to contend with Chinese and Russian Bandits , the Japanese , and other interested parties . The film just goes and goes and goes as the revelations come fast a furious . And its all done to a catchy flamenco score . The problem for me is that the plot , for as convoluted as it gets , is much too threadbare to sustain so much motion . The plot is basically get the map while we learn a bit about the characters , but not so much that the never ending chase and blood bath is really allowed to pause . It has enough motion for easily fifteen other films . In all honesty I looked at the clock at one point and was shocked that the film wasn't even half over . I was exhausted . To put it another way the problem is that the film pretty much is form over content and had the film not spun out so many bits that go really nowhere I wouldn't have minded the frenetic pace , but as it stands now the film seems to be promising more of a pay off then it gives us . I was going " is that it ? " at the end . ( I do understand the map is purely an excuse for the action , the MacGuffin of this film , but at the same time the film shades in details that are never finished ) This isn't to say that film isn't spectacular . The set pieces are great and the action is amazing , the opening train sequence is one of the best train sequences on film . The film was filmed to beautifully use the wide screen so the idea that this is going to be seen on a small TV is frightening ( and don't even mention pan and scan ) . You really need to see this as big as possible to really enjoy it . I like the film , I don't love it . I can recommend the film , but at the same time I wish it was better . If you can get past the plot problems and just concentrate on the action you're going to have a great time . Between 6 and
Better than the title suggests	Sweet and funny vulgar love story about two friends forever who only realize they love each other when they finally sleep together for a porno film they are making to pay the rent . The first couple of minutes had me groaning , wondering what I had gotten myself into but somehow it all come together and the repartee between the two leads won me over . Its an utterly charming film with four letter words and talk about adult toys . What can I say I've finally found a Seth Rogen film I like . I can only chalk up its less than stellar performance to the title . Yes you really do what to see this . 7 .
Real baseball players play themselves in a slice of life film thats a breath of fresh air in style	Atypical Hong Kong film about a group of die hard baseball players in Hong Kong , a city where no one really plays baseball . Based upon the players own stories , the players effectively play themselves with none of their names changed and the various stories based on their lives . Its life and love in the big city as the group train for international play . I picked this up because I was interested in how a baseball movie might be filmed in a place " without baseball " . What became clear almost from the start even though this is a " baseball " movie its not about baseball . Yes we see the guys training but until the final 20 minutes or so we see no games ( and even then the games have no one in the stands-clearly these guys are playing for the love of the game ) . And how we see the games are not even remotely like how we see them in an American movie , its bits of the game with inter-titles about what happened . Its a bit strange , at least to my western eyes . Mostly the film is the stories of the guys , of the women they meet ( are confused by ) , the love they find and lose . and how they give everything else for the game . In its way its unlike almost any Chinese film I've ever seen and almost any Western film either . The first thing you'll notice is that the film loves the guys in a very erotic way . These are good looking hard bodied guys and they are in various states of undress frequently . There is full frontal male nudity which is is rare in western cinema and something I've never seen in Chinese . cinema at all . While there is no " need " for it , they could have shot it to hide things , its not whole gratuitous in that where we see it is where we'd see it , ie . in the locker room . Is the film specifically homo-erotic , I don't think so , but if you're bothered by naked men filmed as almost gods , I'd stay away . There are quotes on screen from various sources and occasional narration , well not so much narration but observation from one or more of the characters . The use at times seems random and at other times comments on whats going on . I found the choices always intriguing if not always relevant to what was going on and was always looking forward to the next piece . The film uses music to great advantage . Clearly the songs being played are of some importance to the story because of how the songs are used . As each song ends the person singing is identified on screen with their birthday and death identified . I wish that the lyrics had been subtitled since its clear that the music is importance . It should be pointed out that even though I can't understand the music , the melody does create a mood . The performances by a cast of non actors are surprisingly good . Actually there isn't a bad one in the bunch , and if there is any flaw its more in how the characters are drawn rather then how they are performed . I'm kind of at a loss about what to say about the film or how to describe it . I do like the film . Its a good little film , but much of my admiration for the film comes from it being so completely different then anything that I've run across in a good long while . Here is a film that was made by some filmmakers who wanted to make a movie and make it their way and they have done so with style and originality . Yes , of course the stories of the guys on the team are similar to things you've seen before but at the same time how it all come together isn't , it doesn't do what you expect and thats both refreshing and infuriating . I'm sorry I'm being obtuse about the film but this is a film that really needs to be seen . If you see it I have a feeling you'll know why I'm not being more specific-its a film that should be discovered on its own and not explained ( actually the trailer that was included on the DVD made the film seem completely different then what it was . Watching it after the film I was like , that wasn't what I just saw ) . Is this a great film ? No . But it is a unique one , one that really should be seen by people who love movies with different points of view . Honestly I don't know why this isn't on the festival circuit since this is the sort of " independent film " that everyone clamors for . Its not a story we've seen before , or if it is its different enough in the telling that it makes it worth sitting down again . If nothing else pieces of the film still haunt me , the images of the empty fields , the player standing in the middle of the crowded street , some of the heart break , the nonchalance about " why are you late " , because one player threw his phone away . Is it a great film ? No , but it is a good one . Its film that boldly has its own point of view and as messy as it is at times still demands to be seen by anyone who wants to see something that is the cinematic equivalent of the FarSide cartoon where one indistinguishable penguin from all the rest steps up and " sings " I gotta be me " . If you love films that are not completely run of the mill see this movie . 7 .
Very good " family " film is actually a " lost " gem that everyone will probably enjoy	Cornelia Funke's novel has been turned into a very good " family " film . How I hate to use that term but unfortunately its true . This is the story of a couple of orphans who high tail it to Venice in search of the magic that their mother always spoke about . Their they fall in with the " Thief Lord " and his band of orphans who steal in order to survive . This is a really good movie . I really do like it a great deal . The film is well acted by all concerned . It has great effects and is extremely well made in pretty much every area . And that is what was wrong with the film , it looks too good . Everything is picture perfect and neat . I don't think I've ever seen a film where Venice ever looked this neat and clean . It takes the film out of being very real to being a a bit of lets put on a show . Its a grand and very enjoyable show , but its a show who's technical excellence keeps you at arms distance . Maybe its just a bit of disappointment on my part , I wanted to fall into this film and enjoy it from on the inside , instead I was forced to see it through a looking glass of picture perfect perfection . Still see this movie . If you have kids sit them down and show them this movie , it will keep everyone entertained . Its a film that people should be seeing and talking about since its too good to have get lost and disappear . 7 . .
Good cast and good script make something of a run of the mill story thats worth seeing	This comedy is about a rebellious young lady , and one time hot gymnastics prospect , gets arrested and given a choice , go to jail or go to a tough gymnastics academy . The judge sends her to her worst nightmare the academy . This is an amusing little comedy . Sure you can pretty much fill in the blanks as to where the plot is going to go , but it doesn't much matter since you actually like the people on the screen . Credit the cast which does infinitely more than walk through their roles . Its nice to see a movie where the cast actually cares about what they are doing . This is especially true of Jeff Bridges who has been pretty much phoning in his performances for the last couple of movies . Here Bridges , as the tough of nails coach , manages to hit the all the right notes in both the funny and the serious scenes . I also have to single out the good script which nicely decorates a run of the mill script with some very funny one liners . Worth seeing .
Matt Dillon gives a stellar performance in a very good but somewhat frustrating adaptation of the work of Charles Bukowski	Matt Dillon is excellent as Henry Chinaski , author Charles Bukowski's literary alter ego , in this big screen adaptation of Bukowski's novel of the same name and some of his other stories . The story of the film is simply Henry , a maintenance drunk , trying to remain employed so he can make enough money to allow him to write , the only thing that really matters to him . However the women , gambling and looking for jobs often get in the way . Funny , sad and touching this is a zen-like meditation of a life lived on the fringes of society . Its a hard film to say more about since the film unfolds like a booze fueled slice of life . Its at times as if you've turned a camera on the people down at the local dive bar , but commented on by the smartest most literate guy in the place . You'd like to dismiss the witticisms as clever writing except that this was the life that Bukowski lived and wrote about . I liked the movie a great deal but only up to a point . The problem for me is that the film seems not to really have a point . Its just a slice of life where things happen and continue to happen well after the film ends . Its not a bad thing , since thats the way real life is , but I couldn't seem to shake the nation that the film was trying to get to some point that never arrived . If I could compare it to say Robert Altman's Short Cuts ( or several other Altman films for that matter ) where the film takes these small slices of life and interweaves them and really never comes to any conclusion and never seems to be angling things into any direction in particular , here you have what is an extended slice of life but it seems to want to have a point , while at the same time not have a point , or it wants to mirror Bukowski's writing but be be something more . Its frustrating . Its very good , but very frustrating .
A good time for its its running time	Good little thriller about a bored business man who decides to grab all of his company's bonds and make a break for the tropics . On the Plane to Hawaii he meets a young woman in distress who is being menaced by gentleman with a foreign accent who knows way too much about her . Over the course of the weekend romance blossoms as danger lurks . Yes this sort of thing has been done a hundred times before and since , and yes its been done both worse and better , but there is something to be said about a little film that tells its story neatly and efficiently . The performances and the twists this time out are all quite good and enough to suck you in and keep you watching for the films 70 odd minutes . Will you remember the film when its done ? Probably not but then again if you're like me you'll put it into the keep pile so that somewhere down the road I can stumble aback over it and enjoy it all over again .
Uneven mix of old and new .	This is the story of an evil genius out to wipe out the world and the only man who can stop him . The look of this film is fantastic . Few films have ever looked this good . Its a retro trip to the world of the movie serial updated for the new a new century . Its art deco Flash Gordon Fleischer Studios magic brought to life in a grand style . The problem is that this is one of the new wave of film people on empty sets and adding it all in later . In some cases it looks great , but in others , as in many shots here , the integration of real and unreal is less than perfect and its obvious that the actors are not really in their surroundings . Had they simply made this a purely CGI film with no actors it might have played better . ( Filming like this makes the actor almost redundant ) That said the acting , with the exception of our blonde heroine is super and proves why you do need actors and not programs . Jude Law is wonderfully heroic and Angelina Jolie kicks ass . Only Gwyneth Paltrow seems to be as fake as the surroundings . She is awful , and so is her character , why Sky Captain would be in love with her is beyond me . The plotting is good but suffers from the feel of being missing a good deal . Frankly its missing a ton of back story and has the feel that sequences were removed for speed . Its as if you're watching half a movie serial . It can be done , you will know whats going on but you will miss plot points here and there . If you are a movie buff you should see this film since you will find a treasure trove of hidden references and cameos . Its good but not great and should have been better . .
No Sons , Daughter	In a break from the typical Chan pattern Charlie is aide by his daughter this time . Interestingly he treats much better than he he ever did any of his boys . This concerns a murder at a seance and more following . Its far from the best of the Chans , but at the same time its far from the worst , especially in light of there not being a son to get into mischief . Its the atypical nature that lifts it up from being a purely run of the mill story . Granted if you've not seen a good number of the Chan films the small differences may not seem like much , but for those of us who've seen every appearance its the little things that count . for those looking for a break in the Chan formula , for everyone else .
A good adventure flick	Richard Talmedge plays Dick Nelson a sailor who was once shipwrecked on a uncharted island . While stranded he found an old vase which he brought back with him and sold at junk shop . A professor who finds the vase and knows what it is looks up Nelson and asks him to take him to the island . Thrills , chills and the right touch of comedy make this a breezy fast moving adventure . Where many cheap-o films of this time are hurt by lack of music this one moves so fast you don't notice it . The only real complaint is that the film ends much too quickly , surely they could have had a bit more happen once they reach the island , after all this film only runs 56 minutes . Lots and lots of fun .
Riveting tale of a man who was the best at what he did	Called the Last Hangman in the UK this is the story of Albert Pierrepoint , the most successful hangman in British history . Timothy Spall does an excellent job as Pierrepoint making his slow change from " This is a job " to having troubling thoughts all the more believable . Watch almost any scene and you'll see a master at work , from the first hanging , where he's to be the assistant , but has to take over when the hangman freezes to the moment he's told that he'll be hanging dozens of people a day in Germany after the war to the final hanging when it all finally becomes too much to bear . This a great little film that deserves to be seen . Not pleasant stuff , but still its riveting .
Powerful story thats not for kids	I'm assuming that this is a tale well known in Korea where this is from since this is at least the second version of the story and there is a note at the end about further outcome . I was going in a bit blind and it knocked me on my behind . The story is a Buddist tale of a little boy and his blind sister who wander the country side begging . They are " looking " for their mother , whom the elder sister knows has died in the fire that left her blind . Through circumstance they end up staying with a bunch of monks and well . . . any more would be telling . This is a heavy movie . The film has left me emotionally shot and thrown for a loop . Someone's compared it to Grave of Fireflies , which I don't think is fair , other than it leaves you with a strong emotional feeling . Its a very good film that I'll have to watch when I feel up to it . I recommend it to anyone who wants to see what can be done with animated story telling . If you want to be moved , see this movie . A word of warning : I don't think that it really for kids , especially children raised in Western , non-Buddist traditions . I don't think they'd understand some of what happens , especially when most of them don't understand how serious cartoons can be . Parents don't give this to your kids until you check it out yourself .
Really good . Why isn't this getting a decent US release ?	This is a CGI animated film based upon a French 2D animated series . The series ran briefly on Cartoon Network , but its run was so brief that its inclusion as one of the potential Oscar nominees for best animated film for this year left most people I know going " Huh ? " This is the story of Lian-Chu , the kind heart muscle , and Gwizdo , the brains of the operation , who along with Hector their fire farting dragon , he's more like a dog . Travel the world offering up their services as dragon hunters but never getting paid . Into their lives comes Zoe , the fairy tale loving niece of a king who is going blind . It seems the world is being devoured by a huge monster and all of the knights the king has sent out have never returned or if the do return they come back as ashes . In desperation the king hires the dragon hunters to stop the world eater . Zoe of course tags along . . . What can I say other then why is this film hiding under a rock ? This is a really good little film that is completely off the radar except as unlikely Oscar contender . Its a beautifully designed , fantastic looking film ( The world it takes place has floating lands and crazy creatures ) that constantly had me going " Wow " at it . The English Voice cast with Forrest Whitaker as Lian-Chu ( one of the best vocal performances I've ever heard ) and Rob Paulson as Gwizdo ( think Steve Bucsemi ) is first rate . Equally great is the script which doesn't talk down to its audience , using some real expressions not normally heard in animated films ( not Disney nor Pixar ) . Its all really well done . Is it perfect ? No , some of the bits go on too long , but at the same time its is damn entertaining . If you get the chance see this . Its one of the better animated films from 2008 , and is going on my nice surprise list for 2009 .
This is why I love Hercules films	Really strange rubber monsters attacking badly dubbed actors , what more could you want ? Billed in English as on of the " Sons of Hercules " films this is really the story or Perseus and his run in with the hydra . The legend was the basis for Clash of the Titans and was some of the last work by Ray Harryhausen . Given the choice between watching that all star yawner and this film I'll take this one every time . No , its not great , but its straight forward and honest in trying to do nothing more than entertain . Knowing that any film with Hercules in the title is nothing more than mental popcorn helps get through the rough spot , which this film has mostly avoided .
Hard edged story of friendship over the course of 20 years is must see viewing	Friend This is the course of friendship over a twenty year period . Beginning in 1975 we watch as four friends spend some time on what appears to be a summer vacation . Their future looks bright . A few years on as school and life takes its toll the dynamic between them changes and re-changes again as the have to deal with growing up , shattered dreams , decent into crime and drugs and the friendship itself . This is a dark little film that reminded me of some of the work of Martin Scorsese . Life often beats on these guys , from cruelty from their teachers to murder making it hard to get by . The course of these boys lives is not clear nor does it always turn out how we , or they think it will . The cast is excellent from top to bottom . Definitely worth seeking out , though be warned some of the violence has a tough edge to it .
Forgotten Classic with Some of the Best Animation in History	Having revisited this film on the anniversary of its first release I was shocked at how good it is . I was also left to wonder why Disney never did anything with it since its release since its a very good film . The plot is simple , Basil of Baker Street helps a young girl find her kidnapped father who is the clutches of the evil Ratigan . There's more to it than that but thats a place to start . Vincent Price , probably having the time of his life , is the foul villain and he seems to be having a complete ball . What ever joy he was feeling must have been infectious since the work the animators did carried over and its fun to watch Price's animated alter ego mug for the camera . This is the last of the un-politically correct films from The Mouse House . Characters smoke , which as we all know is now a no no since Disney is now going back and digitally erasing all trace of that " bad habit " from all of their earlier films . Characters die . Yes the villain still dies these days , and perhaps a Mom to get the plot going , but here we have several characters die , one simply for insulting the villain . The final sequence of this film , a battle in and on Big Ben was promoted as Disney's first major use of computer animation . The sequence is spectacular and one of the greatest animated pieces I've ever witnessed even today . The whole thing lasts maybe five minutes but it pushes the art of animation as far as Disney has ever gone and shows us what a loss the politically correct , story formula has been in the realm of artistic animation . Disney learned how to make money but not films that pushed the envelope of what was possible . What might have happened if they had expanded on this one sequence ? See this movie . I give it . Its not perfect but it is funny and exciting in ways that the films that followed rarely were . The film also contains several moments that prove that Pixar are not the only ones who can make movies that reflect the Warner Brothers style .
much better then I thought it would be	In 1964 a 14 year old girl runs away from home to find out about the mother she barely remembers and who died when she was 4 . She ends up at the home of Queen Latifah and her sisters who make honey . Really good drama that is perhaps too perfectly feel good . Normally this amount of wisdom and love would get on my nerves but it didn't I really liked it . Perhaps the sweetness was made tolerable by the handful of scenes with Paul Bettany as the girls father . A gruff sad man I could relate to and found myself truly heart broken by his last line to his daughter . ( Oh how I could relate to it . ) Very much worth a look .
A wonderful find	Told in flashback , a woman left alone for the holidays decides to surprise her fiancé by joining him in Switzerland . When she arrives and finds he was never there , she manages to track him to South America . From there it becomes a wild adventure as she hooks up with a scruffy reporter to venture into the jungle to find the man she loves . Okay , let me start by saying that this type of thing has been done before both better and worse . The first film that pops first to mind is Romancing the Stone because thats the current yard stick for films of this sort . While perhaps not as memorable as Romancing the Stone , Coronado is a damn close on the enjoyment level . Best of all Coronado doesn't take it self seriously at all . I groaned at the opening firing squad scene , only to lose any reservations in the next scene as our heroine began to tell her story to two guards in a jail . At that point it became obvious really fast that this movie had tongue in cheek and was out to have a good time , period . No its not perfect , but who cares , its fun . I can't recommend this film enough to anyone who wants a confection that may disappear from your mind not long after seeing it , but will make you smile while you watch it . for those who accept this for what it is .
They don't make them like this any more	This is a really good adventure film that's probably all but forgotten . The plot is simple . A woman travels into the jungle to find her husband , now a drunken court doctor for a jungle prince . He had left her years before because he thought she was having an affair . What happens when she gets there is the reason to watch . I won't lie , the first part of this film is slow . Its the trip to the prince's city and other than the chanting of rowers and the sounds of the jungle this is almost silent . Its not terrible since the scenes of jungle wild life and the odd danger is interesting . But its worth hanging on to the second half , since once the wife arrives its men being men as the prince and the doctor begin a strange game of chess for her . Its here that we get to see the good stuff , which I won't spoil other than to say crocodiles , tons of them . And this was in the day when you didn't fake it , they are there in quantity . This is jungle thrills of the real variety since you don't know if some one is really going to be dinner . Had these scenes been done today the digital effects would have reduced the tension because you'd know it wasn't real , this is . . . WOW . My sole complaint about the last 45 minutes has to do with how some scenes are shot . Today , thanks to better equipment and computers the camera can move more freely , here there are a couple of times I wish the camera moved so we could see some of the spectacle that ends this film better . Definitely put this on your to see list . Its not perfect and it is dated but its really a good film that deserves to be seen .
Well regarded spaghetti western lives up to its reputation	In revolutionary Mexico American John Tate hooks up with a band of outlaws lead by Chuncho . They are " collecting " guns for the revolution . Tate , called Nino by his new friends , tags along as they get guns , free the poor and attempt to get paid for their efforts . Thats wildly simplified and doesn't do the complexity of this film justice . What is going on in the film is often not apparent until you get to the very end of the movie . No one is who they seem to be and everyone has some sort of other motive for what they are doing . Its a complex film that you have to stay with since you can never be certain what is going on . For a long stretch of the film I wasn't certain what I thought of it . As I said , this is a story that is ever changing and evolving as it goes , and which you can't say whether you like or not until you get to the very end . It seems like an enjoyable mean but slightly confused western for most of its running time . Our nominal hero , Nino , rapidly evolves into something else . He is always up to something and rarely is it any good . He's hard to root for , or even to like . You instead you have to root for Chuncho , which is a bit odd at first since he's a " bandit " and the " bad guy " . By the end you're rooting for Chuncho , while you're still not sure about Nino . In the end though it all comes together , and it reveals itself to be a quite special movie . This is a movie to see if you like westerns , or even good movies for that matter . Its a film that engages you and moves you and your emotions . Its nice that an entertaining film such as this can also have other things on its mind yet not get lost on those other things or lose the enjoyment factor ( there's a good deal of political satire woven into the story ) . Definitely recommended .
Very Good But Not Long Enough	This documentary from IFC is a very good over view of Hong Kong martial arts cinema , unfortunately its much too short to really give you anything but a taste of the wonders of the genre . Don't get me wrong this is very good , and you should see it , you'll just find the end credits rolling wanting to know and see more , more on the history of the genre and more of the films . Ultimately its a quibble and more than likely you'll find yourself surfing the web to find copies of some the films shown , although I do warn anyone searching for some of the titles , many are on cheap knock off dvds and do not look nearly as good as the prints shown here . A very good , if brief look at a cinema long in need of a proper overview . ( You may want to try and find Cinema of Vengeance a 1994 documentary which is more detailed and compliments this film nicely )
Perfect Rainy Day Movie	Darius , son of of the king of Sparta is thrown into the arena for allowing five gladiators to escape . Fighting and winning a huge victory he is freed . Returning home he finds his father dead , supposedly a suicide , but really murdered by the new King . Rounding up the gladiators he helped escape he fights to get back his throne . This is a good movie . It starts and goes right to the end with no side trips . Even the romance which normally handled badly in most films of this type doesn't intrude , although it isn't really resolved either . Its the perfect rainy day film where everything simply works .
Beautiful documentary that engages you despite being dramatically false	I am a huge Werner Herzog fan . His early films filled me with a wonderful sense of what movies could do and so hooked me at a young age on the most powerful of all drugs , celluloid . More than his fiction films I am a fan of Herzog's documentaries . There is something about the way he sees a subject that opens your eyes to things other than the subject at hand . Often his documentaries are almost something else , his Lessons in the Darkness about the oil well fires in Kuwait is structured as an aliens arrival on earth . Its a haunting film that is more magical and informative than the similar IMAX film Fires of Kuwait . The White Diamond , is on the face of it the story of the building of an airship to study the canopy of the rain forests . It is also , as Werner Herzog tells it , the story of the search for absolution for the death of the inventors friend . I will certainly buy the first part , but I highly doubt the second . This is simply one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen . The shots of the balloon in flight , the waterfall , the birds that live by the falls and the life in the canopy make this the first time I ever wanted to own the biggest and best TV ever made just so I could see these images . I doubt that other than on a rare occasion you'll ever have seen anything as beautiful . Herzog also introduces us to some real characters Dr Dorrington , the inventor of the airship is a man of great passion . Mark Anthony Yhap , a man hired to help porter materials is probably worthy a film himself . Also the rest of the crew are also intriguing characters for the brief period they cross the screen . It is the mix of people and image that make this film work as well as it does . The trouble is that the film almost doesn't work . As a narrative the film is sloppy and unfocused . We are told about the cave behind the falls where the birds live and where no one has ever gone . We see a camera lowered down to a climber so footage inside the cave can be shot , only to be told we will not be shown the footage . It is only sometime later that we are told why , what is in the cave is a legend and to reveal whats there could up set the belief of the population . Its an odd way round the subject and feels completely backwards . The real trouble with the film is the way Herzog hammers away at Dorrington about the death of a friend some years earlier when a ship he had made got caught up in the trees . Dorrington was in no way responsible for the accident of the death ( other than he built the ship that was involved ) but Herzog trumpets the point over and over in order to give some dramatic tension to what appeared to be a pretty straight forward test flight of the airship . It adds a false note that almost sinks the film . . . from which it recovers from when ever we see the ship in flight or get away from the morbid subject . Definitely worth seeing . Its a flawed masterpiece that's a must in High Definition or on a really good TV .
Un-nerving and unsettling film about a family trying to come back together after one returns from hospital	What can I say about this film that won't give you any preconceived notions when you see it ? Very little . The plot has to do with the return from hospital of a teenage girl after she broke down . What follows after that is the movie . It is one of the creepiest most mind blowing films of the past several years . Everything about the film is just slightly off center and leaves you feeling ill at ease well after the film has ended . It is not a perfect film . The film has problems in its final half hour which make an already confusing story , even more confused . ( If you've read any number of other comments here on IMDb and elsewhere you'll know that a great deal of time has been spent trying to unlock what actually is going on ) I'm not sure what I actually think of this film beyond the fact that it scared me and disturbed me in ways that most well known horror films ever have . If you like horror , and don't mind not having everything clearly summed up I suggest you try this since it will more than likely make your skin crawl .
taken on its own terms ( and not necessarily the directors ) this is a haunting piece of film-making ( then again it might bore you to tears )	Bela Tarr's mediation on interpersonal relationships ( and perhaps , the end of the world ) . In a small town a man is obsessed with a singer in a night club . She's married but doesn't completely deflect his advances . Dark brooding tale filled with long takes seems to be taking place in another world or another time ( perhaps it's an after life ) . It's a hypnotic trip ( if this clicks with you about the nature of obsession and how we view ourselves ( if not it's a pretentious and tedious exercise ) . I've read that director Bela Tarr insists that the film ( as he insists about all his films ) is a portrait of life as it is but I would be hard pressed to say that this is any sort of reality except perhaps a reality of the internal . The film's stark and beautiful black and white photography creates a world that seems forever in a mist or rain . It is a place like our own and yet different . People speak in ways that don't seem wholly normal . Verse is quoted and is the bible . No one speaks that way . Musicians play music but how they play doesn't quite match up with the music we hear . The mine carts that we see over head seem to be moving the damned to and from this place and not ore ( indeed we never see either end of the line ) . Tarr says there is nothing allegorical or metaphoric implied or intended but I would argue that the film doesn't function as a straight narrative . Too much is off kilter , too much fails to connect for this to be real life . I'm not saying that the story of obsession , of a man doing what he feels he must to obtain the object of his desire doesn't work if it's taken as straight tale , it does , but at the same time the film becomes a battle with tedium . There becomes no reason for the film to run two hours , for the odd passages of dialog or the long takes . Frankly if the film is taken as the director intends it to be , then the film is a crashing bore and a failure on anything but a basic level . The film only works on some other level that isn't straight reporting , certainly the much used term ' apocalyptic ' that I've read and heard connected to the film is inappropriate . Having been a creator of various things I know that sometimes the works we create change or become not what we intend . I understand that the creator of say a film is the one to ask what he intended but at the same time that doesn't mean what he intends is what is there on the screen . I think Tarr thinks he made one thing however I think he ended up with something else instead . I think as a film that is open to our own interpretation , being real world or not , the film is a masterpiece and a trip ripe with possibilities . I think as a straight tale of souls locked in a straight battle of possession it's a crashing bore filled with WTF moments . As something else of souls elsewhere or even inside of themselves it's a trip . See the film , take it for what it is , or what ever you take it to be and be carried away .
Great Tale of No Honor Among Thieves	Based on a true story Battles Without Honor is a kick ass trip through the rise of the yakuza in post war Japan . Beginning in 1945 and traveling through the next 12 or so years this is the tale of a group of friends who come together in order to survive the cruelties of post-war , and post-bomb Japan and then spend the next decade killing each other as they change sides in a perpetual gang war . This film has just about everything . Moments of violence , hysterical comedy ( The finger ) , drama , and there is even hints of romance as a moll tries to hide her beau . Its brutal and nasty and probably very close to reality . Some reviews paint this as having come in the wake of the Godfather , but while that may have gotten the movie made , the tone is different . There is no honor , there is no loyalty , there is only violence , violence and more violence , usually ex-friend on ex-friend . Despite there being " gangs " its really everyman for himself . American and European films of the same period often painted things as much less cut throat and that there really was familial loyalty , that idea is somewhat alien here as people switched sides if it kept them alive . This is a near perfect film in many ways . It picks you up from the opening minutes and carries you along to the end . Its wonderfully of a time and place and extremely well acted all around . There are only two problems which are minor . First , I think the film requires a bit more familiarity with what was going on in Japan post war . While I have had some knowledge of that , I was a tad lost at the start since I wasn't instantly aware of what I was seeing . The second minor flaw is that its jump through time story telling can be a bit disorienting . Its not that the plot threads are lost , its just that it takes a minute to know who the older people are . Over all a great film . , although it probably should be , since I'm just in a down mood .
Great Comic Book Superhero Movie	Teenaged superhero angst in a friendly Disney sort of way . . . and whats wrong with that ? Will Stronghold is going off to the first day of high school . Since Mom and dad are the world's greatest superheroes he's off to Sky High for the kids of superheroes . The trouble is he has no powers , a fact he hasn't told dad about . Shunted off to side kick training , something he doesn't tell dad about , Will has to deal with not only the pressures of going to school , but also the problems of being the sidekick son of the world's greatest heroes . I smiled and I laughed as they got the story so wonderfully right . Its goofy and off beat and its aimed at a certain audience , which means it should work for no audience but some how it works . It reminds me of those wonderful superhero stories from the 1960's at DC when things were very serious and not so serious at the same time . We have a bunch of nice kids who sort of get along , a villain from the past out for revenge , giant robots attacking cities , super powers and ago for it attitude . Maybe its a live action Teen Titans with the kids learning the ropes . Yes , the effects are cheesy . . . but how could you expect great effects in a story like this ? It wouldn't work , it would just make the rest of it work less well . It fits the timber of the story , its comic book made movie My only complaint is the pacing gets a tad slow when we come to romance . Sorry to say that the battle between which girl will get Will's affection is the only slow part - but its minor , before long there's some super battles taking place and all is right with the world . And if you have any doubts about the quality of the film consider we have BOTH Bruce Campbell , as Coach Boomer , the man who chooses whether you're a hero or side kick ; and Dave Foley as Mr Boy , one time side kick to Kurt Russell's Commander Stronghold and now teacher for the sidekicks . This is a tough movie to rate . As a movie looked at coldly and rationally its probably a seven or eight . However as a movie that makes you grin and smile and laugh your knowing ass off its easily a nine . I really like this movie emotionally and can't wait for the DVD . ( Note to Disney : please no more , unless you have a really really good script and please no TV series , that will kill the charm instantly )
a Beautiful and touching film that transcends cliché	Ken Takakura gives a heart felt magical performance as an aging railroad station master closing out his time on the job looking back on his life around the anniversary of the death of his young daughter . Magical little story had me tearing up at the end as this beautiful film came to a close . Takakura is wonderful as the title character who has spent most of his life living in a small post at the end of the line in the wilds of Japan . To be certain the story is ultimately cliché as we have our hero looking back over his life and regretting the choices he made and facing an uncertain future , but at the same time there is something about this film , the performances , the photography , the music , that really sells the story and moves you . Its a wonderful little hidden gem of a film that is going on to me list of films that were wondrous discoveries this year . To be certain its not the best film but it is a heart warming , at times heart breaking , little film that deserves to be seen . ( Those who love trains need to see this since the scenes of the trains in action make this a truly magical film to watch , after all there is nothing like watching trains in the country in the snow . )
Damning indictment of the cost of war	When North Korea invades the South , two brothers are forcibly drafted into the army . The older of the two , hoping to win a medal and ticket home for his younger brother , begins going on every suicide mission offered . This , however , puts a strain on his relationship with his brother and those in the platoon . Worse the course of the war has several nasty turns waiting for them . . . I'm of two minds about this film . Despite the fact this is a graphic example of both the physical and psychic effects of war , the narrative is more than a bit disjointed . The film is loosely connected snapshots of the course of the war , beginning right before the invasion , then several weeks later before jumping about a month at a time to certain key events . I'm sure that had I better grasp of the history of the war I would have understood the events better . I felt lost and wished there had been more explanation . The lack of a narrative that follows all the way from start to finish hurts the film since we're moved a bit too much from place to place and situation to situationBut the course of the war is not the purpose of the film , rather its the relationship between two brothers . How war changes them and everything in and around them except the love they have for each other . Its a bit hokey but its dead on , just ask anyone who's ever loved their sibling unquestioningly . You understand how one brother would spend 50 years trying to find the other . And then there are the battle scenes which are wonderful and frightening and seem to be the total chaos that war really is . People die horribly and the experience is far from fun . Is the movie worth seeing ? Yes . Its not perfect but its a kick in the pants . .
Trippy murder mystery about the nature of reality	I'm a fan of director Oshii's animated works but for the most part I'm left scratching my head by his live action works . For the most part I find his live action films interesting doodles that don't add up to very much . Then again he surprised me with Talking Head , a very existential and surreal look at not only film making but also the notions of reality . The plot has to do with a producer of an upcoming animated movie bringing in hired gun director to take over for the previous director who is long gone taking the script and anything remotely connected to the movie with him . Faced with having to make a film in two months the director sets about to work only to find that some one or something is killing off his crew . However the plot isn't really the point as the film spins off in various directions as it pulls apart our notions of reality , movies , stories , and numerous other subjects . Its feast for your mind assuming you like ideas over action . Not for all tastes , this is head-trip film and if you don't like that sort of thing look elsewhere . Its very much like Heart of Darkness in an anime studio . I really liked this film a great deal . Its not perfect , bouncing around too much for my tastes but it scores high in my book simply because it dares to be about ideas .
Wonderful	Shuhei Amamiya son of a famous concert pianist transfers with his mother to a school in the country so his mom can take care of his grandmother . He wants nothing better than to become a famous pianist like his dad . When he's threatened by some of the other boys to play a broken piano in the forest thats said to be played by ghosts or else , he's rescued by the poor as dirt Kai , who claims the piano works since its his piano . When Kai takes his new friend to see his piano , Amamiya finds that the piano does work , and his friend is a great , though completely untrained , pianist in his own right . Magical story of following your heart and finding ones " piano " . This is a story for anyone who's ever tried to be good at something but found it difficult , anyone who's found it easy and the magic of friendship . When the film started I wasn't sure this was going to be anything special , then the kids began to talk like kids and the pure joy and love of music was expressed and the film started to become something special . These are real people trying to get along in life , and deal with school , friendship and a competition where one has to wonder is being technically perfect when other people feel things so much more . I don't know what to say . . . its a really good film . It makes you feel good . Its not perfect but you really won't care . For a good chunk of it the film didn't need to be animated until things become magic and take off . . You really want to see this if for no other reason you'll find out why Kai become Wendy to the confusion of a good number of people . This film needs a wide release so lots of people can find their own piano . somewhere around
This portrait of a man who defends the " indefensible " and his complex web of a life is a film to ponder long after watching	Barbet Schroeder's portrait of French attorney Jacques Vergès . You've seen him defending people like Klaus Barbie , Carlos the Jackal , Pol Pot as well as other dictators and terrorists . This is a complex story of a complex man and it essentially tells the tale of the man from World War 2 until today . ( And even at 140 minutes the film leaves a great deal out ) . Here is man of his time , who met and defended with many of the famous and infamous people of the last fifty years . He seems to be a man who generally believes in the right of the oppressed to stand up to their oppressors and to have some one to stand up for them . However this is not just the story of a man who fights for the oppressed but it is also the story of a man entangled in things that will cause many to question just how slick a guy is Verges . Many of the terrorists and dictators he defends are in fact his friends , and he is not doing it for the love of cause but also for the love of the finer things . I liked the film a great deal . To be certain I was lost as to bits of the history and who some people were , but at the same time the film isn't about the history , so much as Verges moving through it . This is the story of the man , his causes and to some degree his women . What exactly are we to make of Verges ? I don't know , but I sure do think that he and his life make for a compelling tale . I loved that my idea of what Verges is changed . I loved that I was completely confused at the end as to what I thought , confused in a way that only a film that forces you to think can do . In the end I don't know what I think of Verges , and I love that I will have to sit and reflect on what transpired on screen and in the man's life for a good long while . Certainly one of the better feature length theatrical documentaries to come down the pike in a while . See it . . . probably more than once . See it and then discuss it , it will get the gray cells of your brain working . .
Really good throw back to the Hong Kong black magic films of the 1970's and 80's	Nasty category three ( adults only ) horror film about a cop who's life is complicated by some killings that have ties to black magic and which are very much directed at ruining his life . Bloody , unpleasant and creepy this is one of the better Hong Kong horror films I've seen in the last few months . Give it a couple of extra points for not being about a ghost with long dark hair . It also feels more like a police procedural rather than a horror film for a good portion of it . This is a film that takes the Black Magic films of the 1970's and 80's with centipedes and floating heads and updates them for the current sensibilities . Then again many of the black magic films were often good and gross , so why mess with them ? It doesn't . I was on edge for a good portion of the film , how can you not be with the nastiness that befalls an infant ? Clearly anything is possible . I won't over sell the film by insinuating that its perfect , its not , some of the talking scenes are a bit draggy and the final sequence , which at times is gruesome , maybe goes on a bit too long . Still there is something about the film that makes you sit bolt upright and watch dreading the next nasty turn . If you like your horror bloody and full of bugs give this film a shot .
One of the better mondo movies , Or if you must see one mondo movie before you die , this is it .	Before TV and video bringing us the strangeness of the world there was the travel film which brought the sites into local theaters . Then in the 1960's we had the travel film spawn the Mondo movie where all of the weird things in the world were brought to your local theater . Most of the films were an odd mix of real and staged events ( many mid-cycle films were all staged ) . Most have dry witty or pithy commentary by a well known star . The films were mostly of the sort of thing where " if you've seen one you've seen them all " . Ecco rises some how above the standard rut of the Mondo movies . Yes , there are things to turn your stomach and others to make you question if its real or not , as all of these films do , but Ecco has one thing the others don't and that is George Saunders doing the narration . Saunders was a master of dry wit and his delivery works wonders with the material . In all of the other mondo movies you remember the momentary bits that shocked you , but here you remember Saunders voice , with his inflections revealing infinitely more than the words do . You want to hear his narration which seems to rise above the material . For the life of me I couldn't tell you one thing that happens in this movie , but I remember the voice . Its the voice that makes me want to watch this every now and again while almost every other mondo movie I've seen could disappear and I wouldn't care . If you must see one mondo movie in your life see this one . If you want to see one that doesn't suck see this one . .
Excellent Olsen and Johnson comedy is hampered by too many musical numbers which put the breaks on the comedic madness	I recently saw this film with Quentin Tarantino's introduction to this film on video tape from Trio . Quentin goes on about how Mel Brooks lifted a good chunk of the premise of this movie for Silent Movie . While the basic idea is the same , down on their luck film makers try to sign big stars for their up coming film , the results are decidedly different . Brooks played it pretty much as a straight film , while Olsen and Johnson used it as an excuse to do silly things with famous people . I prefer the pure insanity of Olsen and Johnson's take . This is one of the best films that Olsen and Johnson ever made , even if it has one really big problem ( which I'll get to in a minute ) . This is pure Olsen and Johnson insanity . Its a film where anything can happen , usually the silliest of all possible options . Its wild and wacky with Olsen and Johnson acting as steam rollers over Hollywood and the studio system . When the comedy is happening its a rapid fire collection of jokes and gags that never seem to stop . Or rather stop a bit too often . The one really big problem I was talking about is that the comedy and the madness stops every couple of minutes for a musical interlude . These interludes pretty much stop the movie dead since any of the momentum thats been built up comes crashing to a halt . Most of the numbers are played straight so its a radical shift in tone that really annoyed the heck out of me . ( Actually the numbers aren't bad they just belong in a different film ) I know that the numbers are the result of this being one of those " studio " films where everyone in the studio appears partly as part of the story , but also as an advertisement for themselves and what ever movie they are currently promoting . ( Hollywood turned these out every now and again often to mixed results ) Music aside I really like this movie . If you want to see Olsen and Johnson in great form this is a good choice to make .
Creepy horror tale will stay with you	One of the better horror films of recent years , is creepy and scary and the sort of thing that makes your skin crawl . Its a simple story - several tourists go to a temple in the Mexican jungle that happens to be off the beaten path . There is of course something there and the locals are not happy about visitors . I won't say more since I'm going tempted to tell you way too much . . . which would be too much since the plot is simple . Its almost too simple . The reason the film works is that the film has decent characters and it does things that are decidedly not your typical horror movie choices . Its short , its sweet and it works . Its not perfect , there are one or two things I didn't like , but on the whole its a very good very creepy film . Frankly while Brazil got upset about Touristas a year because it might make think people about going there , Mexico should worry since this film will make anyone think again about going into ancient ruins . ( 7 . 5 ish out of 10 on the horror scale because thinking about the screams makes my skin crawl )
Good look at an off beat character	The life and work of Japanese photographer Nobuyoshi Araki . Mostly known for his erotic or perhaps pornographic photos its clear from this film that there is more to the man than just dirty pictures . Coming a cross as a charming rogue its clear that Araki loves what he's doing , which is photographing everyone and everything at all times . There is a comment by one of his fellow photographers to the effect that Araki is more than his erotic pictures and that there is nothing that he doesn't know about photography . Seeing his images whizzing by in the film its clear the statement is true as we see the vast range of his work that stretches from the mundane to flowers to portraits to porn to whatever else you can think of . He's an amazing man that I'm certain will worm his way into the hearts of anyone who sees the film . If there is a flaw to the film its perhaps its rapid fire , hip and happening style , which may capture Araki's manic energy , but some how short changes some of the images ( and ideas ) since many are too good to let get lost
Almost as Good as They Say	I had been hearing about this movie for a while and the word was nothing less then sterling . Expectations got even higher when rumors began to surface that Martin Scorsese was thinking of directing an English version . With almost too much baggage I sat down to watch the film that so many seem to think is the next big thing . My first reaction , as I watched the film , was that to remake the film was pointless , since I didn't think that the movie could be any better . Certainly it couldn't look any better , or sound better . Any attempts to remake much of the film would only end up as pale shadows to this version . One can almost see how Scorsese will redo scenes , say by using Sinatra when the stereo is purchased . This is as good a Hong Kong film as I've seen in quite some time . BUT , and as you can tell by the capital letters its a big but , the film slows in the second half a bit . Despite the fact that on every technical level the film never sags , and some nice plot shifts that are very good , the second half slows down just a bit too much . The problem is that on some level we know how the film is going to play out , and despite the plot twists , its just a bit too , leisurely for my tastes . To say more would be pointless , except this is a film that is worth seeing . .
One of the best Holmes adaptations	Russian TV version of the story that was filmed as part of a series and then released elsewhere as a stand alone film . For the most part an excellent adaption of the story with a real genuine chemistry and warmth between Homes and Watson that would seem to predate the Jermey Brett series . This feels the way the stories should feel . If there are any flaws in the film it would be that Henry Baskerville is not English raised in North America rather he's decidedly Russian in manner , The moors , while very ominous-possibly the most in any adaptation-are not quite England and the last " flaw " is that the film is overly faithful to the story and runs two and a half hours . They are minor flaws and should not keep you from watching one of the better Holmes films made .
Stupid Funny	A low low low brow spoof of everything with a Jurassic Park setting with chickens instead of dinosaurs , this is a movie to watch with a bunch of friends and loved ones who don't mind laughing at jokes so bad under normal circumstances you kill the person who told them to you ( Beer would also help ) . The key to enjoying the film is to look at the title and the premise and realize that it doesn't get any better than that . If the title and premise don't make you snicker than avoid the movie , it wasn't meant for you , if you do snicker or smile as you say " oh come on " then you at least understand the humor and you may find it funny in a so bad its good sort of way . Personally I like the film and its rude , crude , " we have no morals or scruples " way of dishing out laughs .
Sue me I liked it	A really good ( no seriously its good ) story about a rapper who wants to join a country club but its snotty board ( headed by Jeffrey Jones ( Ferris Beuller's nemesis ) refuse to let him in . Buying a property close to the 17th hole he leverages it into membership and well what happens is the movie . Neither cartoony nor really over the top ( okay just a bit ) this is a movie where everyone ( mostly ) behaves like real people . Actually one of the key points is that the hero is a better person then the jerks running the country club . Clearly made by film makers who didn't work for " the man " who would have the rappers as gangsters or clowns , this is a nice comedy that makes one wonder who was in the board room the day this was green lit since its so atypical Hollywood on almost every level . recommended on cable if not as a rental .
Better than you think it will be	Ice Cube stars in the inspiring and very well done ( by Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit ? ) of the first girl to quarterback a team in the Pop Warner Championship game . Yes its by the numbers and yes you kind of almost ( though not quite ) know how its going to come out , but at he same time Ice Cube and the rest of the cast sell the cliché and you really don't mind watching . High art ? Hardly , but a good little film that is surprisingly better than the dozen or so similar films from the last couple of years ( and trust me I think I've seen most of them and suffered through the uninspiring lot of them . Worth a look on cable if nothing else .
One of the best tellings of the life of Jesus still holds up even after almost a century	My first memory of this film was getting up at 5 or 6 am to see this on a local PBS station in the 1970's . I thought it was cool that they were showing an old silent film that had some color sequences . The film has always danced around my brain . When Criterion put out the double disc I picked it up mostly out of curiosity . Watching for the film for the first time in decades I was struck by how moving the film is . Certainly its over done and over blown and all of the things you think of when you think of silent movies , however its also very human . Amazingly Jesus laughs , smiles and has a real presence as a human being , which is missing from most other versions of the tale . Think of the sound King of Kings , The Greatest Story Ever Told , Passion of the Christ all are so stiff as to be dull and laughable . Yes some of the piety is laughable , but there is also tears . At the beginning when Jesus heals the blind girl its heard not to weep at the beauty of it . Even Jesus is happy at the turn of events . And then there is the spectacle , Mary Magdalene's home , the crucifixion , the resurrection are grand movie spectacle moments . silent or not 80 years old or not , the scenes still make you go " wow " even after all of the advances in computer generated effects . This is a great movie . Its not perfect , there are silly moments , but there is more than enough to make you wonder if the Hollywood and filmmakers elsewhere should have ever bothered to try to duplicate the magic of this film and the story it tells .
Excellent Edgar Wallace adaption will keep you guessing until the end	Adaptation of Edgar Wallace's " The Ringer " is a nifty little thriller . Boasting not only a neat little mystery it also has a game cast that sells the story . The plot has a well known criminal lawyer is threatened by a master criminal known as the Ringer . The lawyer is not worried since the Ringer is believed to have died in Sydney Australia . However he begins to worry when he finds out that the flowers bearing the threat were ordered from a ship coming from Sydney . The Ringer it seems wants to exact revenge for the death of his sister who committed suicide because of the attorney . Add to the mix the police , Scotland yard , the wife of the Ringer , and several crooks who had dealing with the attorney's fencing operation and you have a movie where anyone could be the killer . I really liked this thriller . An Ealing film , this film is clearly a kin to the later series of comedies that starred Alec Guinness . While most definitely not a comedy , it does have some very witty lines , solid performances and sharpness of construction of the sort that made the later films classics . I liked that every character , no matter how inconsequential makes an impression on you . Every cop , every passerby , every speaking part major and minor is a real person . When someone walks on screen you have a sense that this could be happening . The script is filled with great exchanges between characters . The police surgeon has a wonderful way of putting people down or inferring he may know more than he is letting on . The jailbird , sprung because he knows what the Ringer looks like turns in some hysterical remarks in his vein attempt just to be sent back to prison where its safe . The construction of the plot is better than most mysteries of the time . Its understandable why the source novel was used at least five times for movies . Its nice that the film is done in such a way that even though you may guess or suspect who the killer is , you will still harbor doubts until the final denouncement . There are enough plot-lines running through this story ( all adequately explained ) that its not easy to piece together everything thats going on at first glance . Better still its done in such away that you're engaged waiting for the next clue to pop up , there are no dead spots as the detectives wait to be moved to the next piece , things are always happening . One of the better mysteries I've seen , this is heartily recommended for anyone who wants a good mystery with character . Though I have to ask , if anyone figures out what the title means could you please let me know . since it seems to have been chosen at random to cover the source novel .
Big budget Chinese retelling of the Japanese invasion WWII is a grand war film of the sort they don't make any more	I stumbled up this by accident and decided to give it a go . I'm glad I did . This is the story of the Japanese invasion of China in the late 1930's . The film literally begins with the Japanese invasion , so as the opening credits roll we watch an excellent recreation of the bombing of Shanghai . From there the film recounts the Chinese efforts to drive out the invaders . I'm at a loss as to why this film isn't better known . Frankly this is a big budget war film of the sort Hollywood hasn't done since the 1960's . Sure the dubbing is a bit odd at times ( who chose what voice went with what character ? ) but this is a slam bang action movie like those that I used to watch on rainy Sundays . This is a movie for those who like Bridge Too Far , Battle of the Bulge , Longest Day . Its also for those who like films like Inglorious Bastards , or From Hell to Victory . The only real problems with the movie itself was that it can get a bit saccharine and tear jerky at times . The film also can movie a bit too fast to follow who is doing what . Still these are minor complaints and I would love to see this in a well translated widescreen version on DVD . .
Great Unknown Suspense Story	A plane full of people encounters trouble in flight and is forced down in the Pacific . Thankfully they are near an island or not , since the island is due to have an atom bomb test go off in a very short time and they have no way of letting anyone know that they are there . It may sound corny and contrived but this film just works from start to finish . Once the film is underway you just are happy to have a film this involving to drag you along for the 90 minutes that this film takes to get to the conclusion . Why this film isn't better known is mystery since it has everything that a mystery should in spades and then some . The cast is great , including Richard Attenborough who plays one of the screens great slime balls . Eddie Constantine makes great hero and makes you wonder why he never became a bigger star here in the United States . Search this film out , you will enjoy it .
Werner Herzog - Fan Boy	After the madness of Aguirre the Wrath of God , Werner Herzog turned his attention to the greatest ski flier of his day Walter Steiner . Herzog follows Steiner as he get ready for and competes in an international competition . The film is less about the man , I know very little more now that I've seen the film , than it is about what he can do , and that is fly very far on skis . Steiner is so good that he starts farther down on the ramp than the competition and still blows everyone else out of the water . While the film is very good , and at time exceedingly beautiful , it is ultimately a film made by a fan in celebration of his hero . Its really quite amusing to see the seemingly unflappable Herzog reduced to being a rather human sports nut . Herzog is in love with his subject and what he can do and it shows , thankfully in a positive way . Despite being a very rough film in many ways it still captivates in its rawness . There is something about the imagery and Steiners achievement that makes it all worth watching .
Werner Herzog attempts to come to terms with the climber as the climber prepares to climb two mountains	Werner Herzog's film of Reinhold Messner's attempt to climb two 8000 + meter twin peaks in succession is an intriguing look at what actually goes into a climb and the mindset of those who climb . Werner Herzog follows as Messner picks his porters and then heads to the mountains , all the while peppering his subject with questions about why and how and what his thoughts are . It's a really good look at one of the best in the sport and manages to get into Messner's head in away most documentaries never do . There is something about watching Messner talk about the tragedies and his instructions about what to do if tragedy strikes that seems at times to be way too personal . It's very clear that Messner knows it's all foolhardy but he still does it . A word of warning , this is not about the actual climb as such . Herzog never leaves base camp and what we of the climb is limited to the shots taken from camp or to the brief footage taken by the climbers to document their achievement . This is a film about the people climbing and not the climb . ( the film also starts a bit slow but picks up after about ten minutes ) . Recommended
Chinese adaptation of a Japanese comic is not you typical race film . Probably will play better if you don't know the source and are open to different take in a race film	Takumi is a high schooler who often delivers his fathers tofu late at night . His late night trips have made him adept at the winding down hill run of Mt . Akina , which is a course used by the street racers of the area as the ultimate test of skill . When an unintentional race brings him to the notice of the racers , his life changes as he has to field numerous offers to actually see who is the best driver . Based on a Japanese comic and cartoon , Initial D is a live action Chinese film thats broken box office records across Asia . Despite being a huge animation fan I've never seen the animation nor have a I read the comic . I'm not sure if thats a good thing or a bad thing , but seeing how many fans of the source material are unhappy with the film I would say its a good thing . Flat out I liked this movie . It did take a while to warm up to , but once I began to take it for what it is I thoroughly enjoyed it . Is it a great film ? In someways yes and in others no . As I said this takes a bit to get going . The lead is a bit too closed mouth for my taste , barely uttering a word for the entire two hours . Its a bit too teen angsty . Still you have great characters and great performances by pretty much everyone in the cast ( even if everyone was speaking three or four different languages when this was filmed . The racing is excellent . Its mostly seems to have been done with out CGI enhancement . I like that there are no horrific crashes , police chases or other clichéd events that are so rampant in American movies . And while I was initially apprehensive by the fact the racing is always on the same stretch of road , I warmed to the idea since by doing that we really got to see who was best . ( If you want American style racing in many different environments stay away ) Definitely worth a look see , especially if you want to see a race film that is not like all of the rest . 7 . rounded up to for IMDb purposes .
Fun	I like this very silly movie about the making of a movie set during the Revolutionary War . History takes a back seat to the backstage madness as film crew invades a small town in the American South . . . . . . except that this film was filmed on Long Island . Living on the Island I get great joy watching all the technical gaffes in the film , only the lead characters cars have non-New York license plates , a Long Island Railway Train goes by in the background and on it goes . You don't have to have sharp eyes to see the errors , they are glaring if you know that they are there . They don't take away from the fun , they add to it since as Alan Alda's character quickly finds out , there is nothing real about making movies . The cast is great across the board , with everyone seeming to have such a good time its infectious . See this movie , its just a lot of fun .
See this as big as possible	This will be brief because I'm not sure what to say . I don't mean that in a bad way , its just that trying to describe this film is not at all easy . Tekkonkinkreet is the story of two kids named Black and White . They are known as the Cats and are considered by some to be the protectors of a part of the city known as Treasure Town . As a year goes by a yakuza captain returns to the city and a man named Snake appears with his eye on turning that part of the city into an amusement park . I'm explaining it badly , forgive me , since this is a film thats better to experience than to hear about . Using a mix of 2D and 3D cgi this is a film that is vibrantly alive . There is a real sense of place that is missing from many animated films . The world bleeds off the screen . The film rarely sits still its constantly in motion as characters go from place to place or engage in battles for life and death . Its an amazing thing to watch . The characters are very real . I watched the film with the English dub ( I know boo hiss ) and the choices of actors was wonderful . The voices of the kids were kids and seemed to perfectly match their personalities . The same goes for the other characters as well . What I liked was that the kids were kids . They seemed to be real kids behaving in the situations presented . Granted the film is wildly fantastical but the personalities and behaviors outside of the running and jumping and beating people up was real . A word of warning , this is a dark film at times . There is a great deal of violence , which despite being animated is very nasty and bloody . The film also has some dark undertones as some of the characters slip into the darkness of their souls . Its disturbing enough to get an R rating . On the down side the film takes a while to get going . I was about a third of the way in before it started to click with me . No doubt it was due in part to the very large cast of characters . ( I'm certain this is going to play better on a second viewing ) . My other problem with the film was a shift towards the end which makes me think I may have missed something along the way . I feel as though I missed the climax of somethings . ( Again this will probably be better on the next viewing ) Over all worth a shot . definitely see this in widescreen since the compositions are geared to that .
Light fluffy movie musical that will make you smile even if you don't care about how technically ground breaking it is	Rene Clair's groundbreaking musical . If you want to see where songs first drove a story this is the place . This is the story of a starving young artist who finds he's won the lottery just as his creditors come calling . Unfortunately his ticket is in his coat , which is in his girlfriends apartment and has been given to an on the run convict who then . . . oh but that would be telling . This is a light and frothy story where much of the dialog is sung ( most people think this didn't happen until Oklahoma or Andrew Lloyd Webber ) . Its the sort of movie that they don't make any more , and rarely did when they did . Its sound a film from the early days that plays like a movie from five or six years later . Clair moves his camera around in ways that not even Busby Berkeley was doing ( though to be honest comparing the two film makers is unfair since Berkeley was doing essentially stage bound dance numbers and Clair was moving the camera through " the real world " ) . Its an amazing little movie . and its a charming movie that will just make you smile . Its just a fluffy piece of enjoyment . I'm sorry I can't say more . Its just a nice little movie and thats really all you need to know .
Very Good Horror Story	Set in the trenches of the First World War this is the first film I've seen set during that time that got the sense of place right . Its the got the entombed bodies in the ground , in the walls , and everywhere you look right . It is a bleak existence that the soldiers take almost matter of factly . The plot has a group of British soldiers getting lost during an attack and finding a German trench . The Germans are more concerned with something in the trench to pay the Brits any mind and try to send them away . All but one of the Germans are shot , but because of a language problem he can't tell them whats is lurking close by . Beautifully shot , excellently acted this is a very good little horror film . No , its not the be all and end all of horror films but its a damn good little thriller that rises about the typical thanks to its setting and the cast . This is a film worth putting a bit of effort into finding . I doubt that you'll hate it if you find it , at the very least you'll come away liking it . .
Good Occult Thriller	For the record I have read Hellblazer , the source of this film , and I do like the comic . Also for the record I do like this movie a great deal as well . Is it the comic ? Thats open to debate . I think in many ways it it is . I think the problem is that they've made a film about a very complex character who's been developed over hundreds of issues and distilled him down to what a mass audience could take in . ( remember this is a character that runs in DC's alternative , non " mainstream " Vertigo comic line ) No , he's not English , its not set in London , and its not always night and raining , but other than that I think they have the feel . Keanu for my money is pretty good . I think the problem for most people who read the comic is he's not a snarky Brit and therefore its not Constantine . I think he's fine and his performance takes other bits of his personality and brings them to the forefront . Its no different than the way different writers have handled the character over the years . As a movie its a very good . Its not high art and its not Silence of the Lambs scary , but its a really good thriller with neat visuals and a creepy attitude . Any movie that can keep me up and awake until almost two in the morning when going in I could barely keep my eyes open , has to be a very good film . I must single several of the supporting cast , Tilda Swinton as Gabriel and Peter Stormare as Satan . Both give great performances , though Storemare's devil who desperately wants Constantine's soul is flesh crawling evil at its finest . Talk about evil incarnate . The plot has to do with the " re-discovery " of the Spear of Destiny , the attempt of the son of Satan to take over the world , and the investigation of the supposed suicide of an LA detectives twin sister . Its not giving anything away to say they are all related nor that there intertwining forms a pretty dark path . This is a really good movie thats worth seeing if you're into ghoulies and ghosties and things that bump in the night .
Great martial arts fantasy	Korean martial arts fantasy about a vagabond demon killer , who is actually a wanted royal demon killer , who is drugged by a village and flees before he can get caught and turned over to soldiers for the reward . Falling asleep in what appears to be a temple he crosses over to Mid-Heaven where he arrives just in time to help a higher soul on a special mission who is under attack . The higher soul looks exactly like his lost love , but she doesn't remember anything . The villains are his old friends in the royal demon slayers , now dead and seeking to cross back over into the world of humans . Trust me its way better then that . Grand romantic martial arts film is a visual treat . Better yet its really romantic as the notion of " I will remember you forever " is put to the test . And it raises the question of are we our memories , or are they simply the source of all our pain . . . and joy ? There are times when this film just soars with emotion and ideas . Will you love some one forever for real ? The film looks great . The world of Mid-Heaven is lush and magically alive . The action sequences , which do rely on CGI and wire work are impressive no matter how you slice them . I particularly liked the battle on the ropes holding up the lanterns which shouldn't work for any number of reasons but manages to actually be something special . Only the final battle to the bad guy a bit too CGI with the vast armies clearly make believe . I really liked this film a great deal . I don't know if its one of the best ( some of the plotting is unclear or takes an odd turn ) but for the most part its a solid two hours enjoyment and entertainment . .
If you click with this its pure magic	Why do I love Asian cinema ? because the continent seems to be the biggest place in the world where people are in love with film . they break the rules they break the bounds and they make things that nobody else is doing . A musical of sorts , this is the story of an actor who once wanted to be a director , an actress who once loved the actor but now is now involved with her director , and the director who loves the actress even though he knows she may leave him . They are all making a musical film which in movie tradition parallels the triangle that exists in real life . . Its an often jaw dropping , eye popping emotional film . To be sure it doesn't always make complete sense , partly because the frame work confuses things a bit too much , and partly because I don't think all of the elements are there , but at the same time the music , the images and the emotion just carry you along . Many people here on IMDb compare it to Moulin Rouge but I don't think thats fair since this film really on compares to that film i that they are musicals . This is a movie musical that knows what it is and knows how to use the conventions of movies and musicals to great effect . Honestly I'll have to watch it again to determine how much I like it - and yet at the same time I want to go out and show it to people . I want to show it to people and explain - you want to know why I love movies here watch this or If you want to know what a movie is suppose to be watch this . Its magical - from the opening narration about how we are all the directors of our lives - to the final fade out this is pure movie magic . If you love movie or musicals you do want to see this . . . .
One of the better westerns to come out of Italy	Lee Van Cleef stars in the first of the Sabata films . Here he plays cat and mouse games with the leaders of a town who have attempted to steal an army payroll . Sabata stops their scheme and then attempts to blackmail them for his silence , a price that climbs with each failed attempt on his life . This is a fun western full of great action , twists and wisecracks . Van Cleef is the perfect western hero , a man of few words ( and most of them smart ass remarks ) he is clearly up to something , although what it is is never fully apparent . He is enjoyably helped by Carrincha a large civil war hero who is forever broke , and his pal a tall silent acrobat . The pair make for one of the best sidekick teams I've ever run across . Also wandering through the film is William Berger as Banjo , a man of decidedly mercenary loyalties , who is Sabata's equal in cracking wise , and who is forever waiting for the right angle to act act upon . I really liked this movie a great deal , even if it really isn't clear whats going on at times . The main flaw of the movie is that after the first twenty minutes the film simply becomes attempts to blackmail the town fathers by our hero and their attempts to kill him . There's nothing wrong with this since the see saw battle is excellently done , rather it just engenders a sense that you're missing something since you would think something more should be happening . Definitely one of the better westerns of I've seen . This should be something that those with a desire for good action should seek out .
One of the best	First Zorro serial is one of the best . It's a modern story with planes and trains and cars and horses all being used to great effect to tell the story of Zorro ( James Vega ) trying to stop the villain from blowing up the railroad he own stock in . Its one of the large scale serials that Republic did in the late 30's and early 40's before budgets got tighter thanks to wartime austerity . The large cast of characters is nicely handled and it doesn't have the round and round feeling that later Zorro serials engendered . This has spectacular effects that help elevate things a couple of notches - Where else are you going to see a train try to out run a plane that is trying to bomb it ? . If there is a flaw it's that there is a few musical numbers that don't really fit ( Most musical numbers don't fit in serials since they slow the serial down too much )
Masterful look at the interior life of a man in the White House	Oliver Stone's film about the life of George W Bush seems to be a simple look at the life of W from his college days to the invasion of Iraq and how it all went wrong despite the best efforts of our central character . The film doesn't deal in a great deal of details , it does not follow every minute of every event-in deed the films present ins the days leading up to the invasion , and then flashes back to seeming " key " moments in Bush's life , some seemingly innocuous . However they are not innocuous they are somehow key to the interior landscape of the man . It is that interior landscape that is important to the film , not the details of everyday life . Look at how the film shows us the people in Bush's life . They are all drawn in a simplified way that Bush sees the world . His father is the master he can't please ; his mother is loving but on the fringes ; Laura , at first is a challenging three dimensional woman who recedes into the cheer leader and prop ; Cheney the man who wants to have his way ; Rove the brain ; Colin Powell , the complex voice of reason that no one understands and who gets ignored because he's the smartest one in the room and its easier then dealing with the reality he puts forward . But the way the film is put together there is a second level there , we have the people existing in the way that Bush sees the world but we also have the times when there is another level . Watch the performances watch how what some one says indicates one thing but how they act indicates something else . Look at how Laura recedes and her role becomes more and more the " mother " or prop up for George her body seems to indicate much more going on ? we don't see the more overtly because George doesn't . This is a film about how Bush sees the world , not how the world sees him . ( why else do we keep having Bush go back to centerfold in the baseball stadium , its Bush escaping ) . Many have leveled charges against the film in that it makes Bush too likable and that its not tough enough in judging him . First off how could George not come off as likable to some degree . One can't become elected to the presidency without someone liking him . There has to be something there that makes people want to follow him , or at least have him lead them . As for not being tough enough , I don't think that's the point of the film . It wasn't made to be a witch hunt , rather it was to show us what sort of man the man who lead us for the eight years was and how that lead us to where we are . The film does have a great deal to say about those around our commander and chief , and its not very pleasing with pretty much everyone in the cabinet , except Powell getting raked over the coals . To be certain the film might have been tougher on them , but then again the film isn't focused on them and their deeds or misdeeds . As the film stands it's a close to great film . First because it has everyone annoyed at how it portrays its main character . If Stone had pleased everyone then there is no doubt he did something wrong . So add it to the list of Stone bio's that have rankled the populace . Stone has made a film that makes you think . Whether you like it or not the film will challenge your perceptions and force you think about what you are seeing ; you will be forced to think about what Stone is showing you and wonder why . And while its looks simple , its not simplistic , there are no real easy answers . Its a film that will require multiple viewings . I knew near the end that a second viewing was in order since I was only just beginning to understand what I was seeing . And the film's greatness comes from the performances . Everyone is very good in their roles , especially Josh Brolin who eerily inhabits the persona of George W Bush in ways that are scary . One pretty much forgets that its Brolin up there on the screen by the time the film is a half an hour old . One can hope that at the very least an Oscar nomination will be coming his way . If there is any real flaw it is the one noteness of Bush's vision . I can't fully blame Stone for making some the characters so one note , particularly James Cromwell as George Bush Sr since the black and white nature of the world is key to under standing how the world operates . " I have to better better than Dad " has made some of Bush's world rather dull . Still the film is important . It's the first film that I've run across , be it documentary or drama that has tried to get inside the head of Bush with out demonizing him , claiming mental illness or unmitigated genius . Here is Bush the man , warts and all . It is a painful reminder that we are all fallible . I'm not sure where the film will fare a few years down the road , but I do think it is a film that deserves to be seen in it entirety and seen by everyone interested in where we've been and where we're headed .
Its form over content - but if you click with it this is a really good action flick	First off , its the type of movie I hate-form over content , but I loved this film . Simply put , its the commercial / trailer only 90 minutes long . Set in a world where a virus that was genetically altered by the military in order to make super humans , turns into something else and alters anyone infected into something other than human - a " vampire " . the plot has Violet , a " vampire " , stealing a human " weapon " and then finding that its not what she , or her fellow vampires thought it was , nor is the situation in the world . This is a mostly flashy visuals with just enough plot to hold it together . Its great stuff which operates nicely with in its own on screen world . It helps that this is a movie in motion , its basically a 90 minute chase with some fights and exposition thrown in from time to time . The fights defy gravity and make your jaw hang open in disbelief ( the good kind ) . The wonder of it all is to due to clever deus ex machina or mc guffins with in the story ( vampirism and neat gadgets ) and they help keep things moving along at a good clip . Actually the film has enough slack to explain ( or not ) pretty much everything satisfactorily until the final twenty minutes or so when it becomes clear that some one removed several lines of exposition . Its still good , but you will feel that you've missed something . I have to say that I like that the film doesn't feel it has to show you everything . some of the fights happen in the dark or bodies will pile up just out of view . Its a ballsy film that allows that to happen since it trusts its audience to fill in what just happened based on the after math . Fight fans may squawk , but I liked it . I accepted the film on its own terms and allowed it to work its magic so I liked it . However the form over content thing may not work for you , in which case you'll hate it . Either way its worth a look , especially if you like the way the trailer and commercials look .
Heart breaking tale of a father , a son and a two broken hearts	I watched the complete restored directors cut which runs two hours and forty minutes some forty minutes longer than the theatrical cut . I had picked the film up because the description on the DVD case promised one thing , however how it delivered that story was not what I expected . ( I also picked it up because I love the English title ) As the film opens boy is being sent off to school by his mother . She is being especially nice to him and he suspects something is wrong . sneaking off the bus he returns home to find his mother packing up her things preparing to leave him and his father . He runs off to tell his dad , who returns home in time to stop her from leaving . He manages to talk her into staying , but it isn't for long as his mother eventually leaves leaving him and his father alone to take on the world , and the money men he owes money to from his out of control gambling . Heartbreaking tale of two souls adrift in life's storms is compelling viewing . The performances by everyone involved especially Aaron Kwok as the father are very real and emotional . Its painful at times looking into the lives of these people . They are not good or bad , they are just people which is readily apparent when Kwok , his wife having just left him , breaks down on the couch grasping desperately at his son pleading with him not to leave him too . its a heavy moment . Actually the movie is full of heavy moments , many of them that rung true with me having lived through similar ones with parents and friends . The film is technically a marvel with a look that is stunning , as is the use of the widescreen . Even better is the use of music both in its original score and its use of songs from elsewhere . Patrick Tam who directed is also listed as music designer , a title I've never heard of before but which is aptly put in the present case . If the film has a flaw its that in this cut its a bit too long . As I said earlier this is forty minutes longer than the theatrical version which must move at a better clip . However I would be remiss in not saying I really couldn't tell you what I would cut to speed the film up , or if I did have an idea I certainly wouldn't know where to cut forty minutes . On a more personal note I was slightly disappointed in the very end of the movie . There is something about it that left me unsatisfied . I suspect because it doesn't provide an end rather a stop . its a minor thing that I can't explain , but its what prevented me from completely falling head over heels with the film , something I felt sure I was going to do . Don't get me wrong this is a really good movie , its just the last second of film just made me go " wha ? " . Frankly I'm going to have to watch the final portion of the film to see if it makes a difference on a second viewing .
A film to search for	Mind bogglingly animated tale of a world where people fly instead of sail , its tale of a navigator called into service after a tragedy only to find himself on a voyage of a life time . One of the best looking animated films , I've ever seen . This is a film filled with very Victorian and steam punkish images and contraptions . Its great to look at . The story about a man taking a job a a means of redemption and then having things begin to go wrong though no real fault of his own is the sort of things that make for grand adventure . I really fell in love with this film and by the time it was over found myself clamoring for if not a sequel ( I want to see what happened next ) at least another film set in the same world . One of the best animated short films in many a year .
A Spy Kids Chinese Style is a Good Popcorn Film	Sue me I liked this . You've heard the story before : two kids who don't believe their dad's way out tales find he was telling the truth when he's kidnapped and they have to go rescue him . Its been the story of countless films most recently in films like Spy Kids . Here its done with an Asian flair and for the most part it works . Its not the be all and end all of action films but as a 100 minute lark its quite nice ( even with tongue in cheek this film does contain some graphic violence and blood of the PG 13 variety ) . The fights are incredible even if the wire work is far from believable . I liked this film a great deal , my only complaint is that the pacing at times is a bit slow , considering this is the directors second time out of the box I'll cut him some slack . In reading reviews on this film I was struck by the intense dislike for the director . I'm not familiar with him or his earlier work as actor or director but I can't see why the knives have been drawn , its just a harmless movie . If this film passes your way give it a shot . Turn you mind off and grab some popcorn and you'll have a good time .
Remake of classic foul mouthed comedy , is not quite as good as the original , but still pretty funny in its own right	Richard Linklater's updating of the 1976 classic film is an odd beast . At times faithful , at times not , this film has no real reason to exist except that its very very funny at times . The basic plot , of a drunken coach taking on a team of losers and misfits is pretty much the same , even many of the jokes are the same . The team make up has been altered slightly , though there still is Tanner who appears not to have changed in 25 years and will still take on the sixth grade single handedly , there still is an overweight Engleberg to be his foil and of course there is a girl to be the star pitcher . Here she's played by Sammi Kane Kraft , who looks and acts like a 12 year old tom boy , better than Tatum O'Neal ever did . Frankly she's someone to look out for down the road . What intrigues me about this movie is that it has other things on its mind other than being funny . There are attempts to look at parent child relationships , race , and what it means to succeed or fail in life . While some of the additions make for a very bumpy ride , they are at least an attempt at doing something other than a straight remake with the material . ( I'm curious as to what was cut and if any missing or extended scenes will show up on the DVD ) Its not perfect , but who cares since ultimately its very very funny . Some of the jokes worked the first time , while others could only be done now . It amused me for two hours more than many films I've seen lately and I did hurt myself laughing on an occasion or two . Do you need to see this on the big screen ? No , TV will be fine , since its probably going to end up in eternal rotation much like the first one . In the end the question of which is better does go to the first one , but that doesn't mean you shouldn't see this one too since it has some really big laughs to offer and will , in the end make you smile ( even if it can never erase the image of the original ) . 7 . - rounded up to 8
Great action horror film	SCIFI picked this up so it went to cable instead of going to theaters . I don't know whether to thank them for making people aware of it or curse them since it meant that people first saw this with commercials . First - if you saw it on SCIFI you didn't really see it . Go rent it and watch it uncut where the suspense and the violence remain in tact . Second - This is one of the best horror films I've seen and which almost no one has seen fully in the US because the commercials on SCIFI kill the tension . I liken it to the almost disappeared SCARECROWS which rocked just about anyone I've ever shown it to . The plot , a group of soldiers on a training mission run into way more then they bargained for when they are attacked by werewolves . Thats the plot . Where and how it goes is from there is just great . Yea you may have seen chunks of this before but this sucker moves so fast and with such wit and style that you really don't care . Yes there are twists you expect and then at the same time there are some twists that never come and leave you pleasantly surprised that at the turn of events . ( What Identity failed to do in the last couple of minutes ) I really like this movie a lot . I had heard great things when SCIFI ran it and took a chance by picking it up on DVD as a used title . I was more than blown away by the film . It was worth the purchase price and then some . As I've said rent the movie on tape or DVD , do not watch it on SCIFI . This is a movie of even increasing tension and the tension will be lost if every twelve minutes there's an ad for toilet paper . Yes its free on SCIFI and you'll get a taste of the film but it won't be the same , trust me . The wolves are of the HOWLING variety but bigger and meaner and they look great when we do see them . . . Great action and suspense . . . see the film . . . And stay into the credits to see who won the football game . . .
Even if you don't like surfing this is a great movie	I stumbled upon this movie on cable and was totally hooked . The story of a group of surfers who ride the big waves , waves that are monstrously huge , waves that would make any rational person run away in terror is a one that manages to be spectacular and make you understand why people spend their lives chasing waves . There is nothing special about the film , other than it brings together some very interesting people who are are in love with what they do and lets them talk . Sure there are scenes of them surfing , but what makes this movie so special is the people . Here are a bunch of guys who are so enthusiastic about what they do that it crosses over to the people watching . Half way into this movie you'll want to go off and learn to surf as well . Few documentaries have ever managed to covey the passion that these people have and its the films ability to make us feel it that makes this a great film . See it .
More mediation on forgiveness and salvation as opposed to mystery with a central character many will despise on principle	Stand alone X-Files film has split critics down the middle with half loving it and half hating it . I really liked it . The plot has an FBI agent going missing and the FBI being contacted by a psychic ex-priest . Uncertain what to make of him the FBI asks Scully , now working as a pediatric doctor , to contact Mulder with the promise of clearing his name . Mulder takes the case and then things go off in unexpected directions . I think the thing thats angering people is that the film is not so much a mystery-which it is-rather its a mediation on belief and redemption . Billy Connolly's Father Joe is pedophile ( another reason people hate the film ) who desperately wants forgiveness . His visions are a curse and something he is unsure of . Adding layers is Scully who is trying to save the life a young boy in the Catholic hospital where she practices-a hospital that wants her to give up and let the boy die . Scully hates Father Joe because of his past , but is uncertain what his visions mean , especially when he says something simple to her . In someways its constructed as little more than a bumped up episode , but at the same time the film is dealing some heavy issues . I highly doubt that Father Joe ever would have been allowed to be on the series . The fact that its self contained means that Chris Carter can actually mediate on the ideas he's presenting giving the film a weight I doubt any episode ever had . I have to admire Carter for making one of the more thoughtful American films of the year wrapping it in the cloth of a TV show movie . I would love to know what he might have done with the show had he been able to do things like this with it . Ideas aside the film isn't perfect . As I said it plays at times like an episode of the series and the mystery is often pushed aside for weighty matters . Still even with out the notions of salvation the mystery is wonderfully ghoulish and intriguing while the Mulder Scully relationship is fun . I think its worth seeing-perhaps not at full price-but certainly for a bargain matinée or on DVD . ( less if you don't like the discussion of salvation involving a pedophile priest )
Very good but slightly disappointing story of the Zodiac killings	David Fincher dives into the Zodiac killings in San Fransisco . Disorienting only in that this is more or less a straight telling of how three men's lives were changed by the killings . The cast is a cross the board excellent with Robert Downey Jr a stand out as the reporter who sinks into alcoholism as the elusive case gets away . Following Robert Greysmith's book on the story fairly closely this is a gripping tale that will annoy some people since , and its not rally giving anything away , there is no definitive ending . The killer isn't caught , though a suspect is named . For me the problem is tied together in the fact that we are asked to give up three hours of our lives to a story that has no , and will probably never have , final solution . While the lack of an ending makes you feel much like the characters on the screen it also annoys you and makes wanting to return to the film again not something you'd look forward to . Don't get me wrong , I really like the film a great deal ( I've read a lot on the killings ) I just wish they had managed to find a more satisfying way to end the film so I'd have a reason to go back to it sooner rather than later . Definitely worth a look , just prepared for a " thats it " feeling even with the end text .
Haunting	Story of Fini Straubinger who is " trapped " in her own body being both deaf and blind . Since the condition came on later in life she is able to speak and tells us what its like . We also watch as she goes around helping those like her . Communication is done via touching or writing on the hands . It becomes clear that the people in the film with this condition are trying to live full lives . An amazing film that shows us what its like not to be able to hear or see . Hopeful and yet unnerving-its not a state one really wants to contemplate having-its an important film since we see the world with a different set of eyes . Taking the matter even further Herzog and his crew also show us what its like for people born deaf and blind and how hard it is for them to even learn the basic things we take for granted . Moving . Haunting . Worth a look since it will make you reflect on how we get along .
The fog shrouded moors and dark mood help sell a war time mystery tale	Beginning with a truly stunning image - what appears to be a headless corpse walking along the foggy moors , this is a neat little wartime thriller about the weird goings on in a small English village that has had the local tin mine shut down because of weird visions-headless visions - and the tragedies that strike those who go in the mine . ASolidly enjoyable hour long film this has mood to burn . As my friend Lou says about the film " it has everything you'd put on a list of things you need for a great ' old dark house film ' " . I agree . While the film isn't perfect , the mood has to be shifted to one side because there is , after all a plot , its still a great film to watch on a dark and stormy night or late at night curled up under the covers .
Taken on its own terms this is a solid thriller with one heck of a shoot out	Clive Owen is a former British Cop now working for Interpol . He is currently investigating a huge multinational bank and its shady dealings . He is working in connection with the Manhattan DA's office ( Naomi Watts ) . As the film opens Owen's partner is talking to an informant from the bank , as the meeting ends and the partner goes to cross the street to rejoin Owen , he suddenly collapses , dead . Things have turned deadly . As Owen and Watts more bodies begin to turn up and its soon clear the bank will stop at nothing to keep their secrets secret . Dark tale of a corporation going rogue and seeming above the law , this is a really good thriller who's timing is either good or bad owing to the recent banking collapses . I really liked this film a great deal . It's nicely tense , has a couple of super set pieces ( The shoot out in the Guggenheim is a stand out ) and is nicely bleak in its view of people who think they are too big to be answerable to the laws that the rest of us follow . Owen is fantastic as the hero with a troubled past . This is his film and I think the film works largely because we sympathize and relate to him and his plight . If there is any real flaw in the film its that a couple of times things take turns that don't make a great deal of sense since what happens would actually raise too many questions ( The great shoot out would blow the conspiracy wide open-even with the banks cash ) , that said , if you take the film on its own terms , as the cinematic equivalent to the literary novels of people like Balducci , Patterson or Kellerman , then you'll have a great time . Perhaps the best thing I can say is that I'd like to see it again .
Excellent short suspense drama thats worth seeing if you get the chance .	Police are trying to track down a man called ( I believe ) Pentecost who escaped from an asylum years before because its feared that he may attempt to get the man who's testimony sent him away . The police are trying to do this by following a man named Jenkins who is bringing Pentecost food . Jenkins is getting annoyed since Pentecost hasn't been paying him for the food . A deal is struck and Jenkins agrees to help Pentecost on his next job . Jenkins is unaware of his partner's past and so is unprepared for where the job takes them . This is a neat little movie that is perfectly paced for its short running time . I don't think there is a wasted moment in the whole movie as writer / director John Gilling cranks up the suspense and send the story spinning off in interesting directions . As the movie cross cut between the police , the criminals and the frightened victim I found that the film drew me into the story in ways that many longer films never do . It also comes to a satisfying conclusion and leaves you feeling as if you've seen something of substance when its over . Definitely worth seeing if you run across it , this is a neat way to spend 40 minutes of your time . A word of warning , if this should show up on a TV station with commercials tape it and then zap through the nasty advertisements since the film's structure will be destroyed by any real interruptions .
More Drama than thriller , this sequel in name only is better than the first and should be allowed to stand on its own	First off this film has no connection to the first Yellowhair film . Secondly the sometimes quoted subtitle of " Pornography in Blue " is actually a title of one of the sections . Lastly this is less thriller or exploitation film than a drama about three people coming together in the event of one moment and going on from there . This film surprised me . Watching this late at night after seeing the first Yellowhair I was was shocked that it was as different as night and day . This is a film that has something more on its mind . The film is structured in titled parts . The first three introduce us to our three main characters and take us to the same point in time . Once the film has brought all three characters to that moment it then moves on from there as they try to put their past behind them and create a future for themselves , only to find that bits of the past are always attached . I really liked this film a great deal . Different by almost any standards this film tries and mostly succeeds in telling us a story of three people who are unable to get away from the past and fully start a new life . Its not preachy or exploitive , it just is . Even Ha Ri-Su , the transsexual model , who plays Jae , and on who's life this is supposed to be partly based , isn't used as anything more than a character that fits with in the frame work of the story . If you want something different from the normal Hollywood assembly line product , or even something different from the normal Korean action / horror films that we seem to be getting lately , then see this movie . Its just a good story well told . ( Though I will admit that a good deal of my enjoyment came simply from seeing something different and not from clear superiority in film making )
Great mystery western	I was never a western fan . It was made worse when we first got cable back in 1976 and several of the stations were heavily running the black and white programmers where only the names changed slightly from film to film . What ever it was never hooked me into liking westerns . John Wayne was never a favorite of mine as a result . But as time went on I did find I will watch a western now and again and have raved about several , Unforgiven , Tombstone and Silverado for example , when really good ones come along . But I've never been a fan of the genre , so when Sinister promised something different in their catalog I jumped . The film is one of the Three Mesquiteer series that came from a a long running series of novel and was turned into a long running series of films . John Wayne was one of the original trio of ranch hands who do good in the West . The plot involves an expedition to find a lost Indian city and a lost pair of scientists who earlier went looking for it . Supposedly its located in a Whistling Skull . Just as the party is to leave one of the scientists shows up speaks of finding the city and being taken prisoner only to be killed before revealing the exact location . The Mesquiteers , who had found the now dead scientist , tag along as the party sets out in order to find the city and the one remaining scientist . The movie moves like the wind , running in this print only 53 minutes , and has just about every western cliché you can think of and then some . Assuming you haven't seen a bunch of these in a while its worth seeing , and even if you have seen a bunch of these its still fun . Its simply a fun frantic mystery western , recommended .
One of the best Lovecraft adaptations ever committed to film	The story is classic Lovecraft , a man recounts how his discovery of secret knowledge has driven him over the edge and brought him close to death . Its the framework that Lovecraft used again and again to tell his stories of horror . Here the story is that of the cult of Cthulhu which he discovers upon the death of his Great Uncle , a man who was himself driven to the edge of madness and to death by the secrets he uncovered . Essentially a series of flashbacks and narratives this film builds a great deal of unease as bits of story and coincidence create an a narrative that has unpleasant implications . Its not the kind of think that will make you jump out of your seat , but it will make you want to turn the light back on . Shot now ( 2005 ) but in the style of a 1926 silent film this movie manages to make what could be very silly seem very real and menacing . There is something about the black and white imagery that makes it all seem very possible . Many people have said the story was un-filmable because of its structure of multiple tales and because if not handled correctly the hysteria felt by some characters would just be silly , this film however has proved it can be done and in a very satisfying manner . The film's flaws are mostly technical and except in one case minor . The film , which appears to have been shot on digital video for the most part looks good , though in sequence where fire is seen the film takes on an odd appearance . The films budget also has a some stark sets that seem more like a set than place . Still they are minor complaints . The one major complaint is Cthulhu himself , which is clearly a stop motion model . While its understandable that because of the nature of the beast this was probably the way to go ( and probably close to how he might have looked in 1926 had he been put on screen back then ) , it still removes some degree of the horror that had been created prior to this point . Ultimately its a minor quibble because whats goes before and after makes up for it . If you like classic horror and the writing of HP Lovecraft see this movie . ( just remember its suppose to have been made in 1926 , not now ) . , one of the best Lovecraft films to get Lovecraft right .
What ever you don't think about the plot and you'll have a great time as lots of people shoot lots of guns in the name of fun	Clive Owen is Mr Smith a man who happens to take pity on a pregnant woman being chased down the street . In the process of helping her he ends up in the middle of a long running fight with Paul Giamatti who is there to make sure both mother and child expire . The mother passes but the baby doesn't so Smith becomes a sort of Lone Wolf and " new born " Cub , as he tries to stay alive and find out who wants the baby dead and why . Pretty much pure action from the opening frame this movie just starts and goes . Its 85 minutes of mostly pure action thats so over the top ( intentionally so ) that it will be hard to ever watch an action film gain with out finding it completely ridiculous . Its filled with numerous funny lines , visual puns and jokes , not to mention riffs on other films so that the film is often a delight on more than just the visceral lets shoot things and make them bleed level . As a pure over the top live action form over content cartoon ( Owen has been likened to Bugs Bunny and Giamatti to Elmer Fudd ) this film is aces . As long as the film keeps up its frenetic pace and we in the audience can neither think not breath this film is perilously close to being a classic film . The problems come in some where along the way the film gives us a minute to take a breath and it begins to weaken , probably because its impossible to keep up running at that level . The lull doesn't last long as a moment of intimacy between the leads turns into a fire fight when visitors unexpectedly show up . However by that time the semblance of a plot begins to form and the reason behind everything starts to be revealed , which means the silliness of the action becomes coupled with a silly plot the result of which is the film begins to wobble . In all honesty the film never falls over but it does stagger as the lack of reason creeps in . For the most part I really liked the film , but ultimately I didn't love it , the nonsense of the final third being too much to take . Don't get me wrong I REALLY like the film and I think any one who loves action should see it . Be warned the film is very violent , gory , sexy and has an often dark sense of humor , so its not for all tastes or genteel sensibilities . 7 . ( 8 for IMDb purposes ) on a pure " thinks go boom " level .
Wonderful family story thats pretty free of clichés	Family drama of a ( black ) family coming together for the holidays . I mention the color aspect only because there is a moment where color plays a role , however color and race are really irrelevant since this is an excellent little family drama about the things that make us family-what ever our color . A strong cast that includes Delroy Lindo makes what is occasionally a clichéd story into something more universal . Frankly these are real people up on the screen and any cliché's reflect that life is something like that . Huge bonus points for the fact that there aren't really movie of the week problems or histrionics . Things happen , but the family takes it all in stride with out a great deal of gnashing of teeth and rending of clothes . I really like this movie a great deal and look forward to seeing the film again down the road . for making a truly universal family drama that is just good time with good people . ( This is very much deserving of a longer better review but I haven't figured out how to explain the tapestry of the film with out making it sound petty or less than it is . )
A curl up by the fire " I'm going to tell you a really good story " sort of a movie	Nothing is what it seems . Mostly . Clearly one of the most special movies of the year , here is a movie that proves Edward Norton and Paul Giammatti are not as over rated as some poor recent choices made it seem ( What a joy it is to see them spar ) . This is the story of Eisenheim the magician who comes to Vienna to do magic and falls in love with a woman above his station . Thats the party line and here I'm willing to tow it since to do otherwise would involve lengthy explanations that would tell you too much before hand . Absolutely one of the best looking , best acted , best made movies of the year . Its a wonderful movie that will thrill your sense of wonder . Its like curling up with a good book on a dark night before a roaring fire . Its a wonderful drama with romance and laughter and danger and magic , both of the how do they do that sort and the type that tickles your heart . This is one to see . Absolutely .
Amazing look at belief	Portrait of superstition and faith in Russia . Completely neutral Werner Herzog film simply shows the people as they are and lets them speak for themselves . One is a " reincarnation " of Christ speaking of love and brotherly love . Another is a man who plays the bells at a church . We see a faith healer and mystic blessing a couple . We also spend time at a village near a Russian lake . Here is its said that God saved a village from the Mongol Hordes by placing it at the bottom of a lake , where if the conditions are right you can see it through the ice when the lake freezes in the winter . Nonjudgmental to the point that anything approaching a voice over is simply the translation of the words of those we see on screen . Even the " silliness " of the people who live near the lake with their crawling around it from holy site to holy site ceases to be funny when you realize that these people actually believe in what they are telling you . It's a haunting film that makes you wonder about how and what some people believe . Highly recommended .
Chilling and should be sought out	New Zealand docudrama about the massacre that occurred in Aramoana when an angry gun nut opened fire on his neighbors and severely reduced the population . Slow to start , I thought that this was going to be a typical story of a shooting with its pleasant vistas and the get to know the participants set up scenes . However once things got going things spiral out in ways that they can only in real life . The violence , which we know is coming , is at first explosive and in its way out of left field . Then as the neighbors and soon to be targets attempt to figure out what the " fireworks " are things becoming darker as the random acts of violence begin to pick up . What do you do when a nut job begins to open fire ? Here's the answer . Though far from perfect , its a tad too clinical for my tastes , this film really packs a punch , especially in the final scenes where there are a few decidedly haunting images that not only drive home whats happened but also turns so of what we've seen on their ear ( The swat team in slo mo ) . I thought it was quite good . However I'm not particularly pleased with the Weinstein company who is its distributor . No ads for the film in New York . Sure you screened it for critics , but no add other than in the general ad for the IFC center where its playing . Clearly you don't want anyone to see it or know it existed . ( I caught it on IFC on Demand cable service . ) I only gave it a shot because I saw the title in the Time Out New York film reviews . Clearly they don't know what they are doing since here's a film they should promote but don't , yet other things like . . . Doogal . . . they promote like mad even thought it belongs in the bottom of a charnel house's fire pit . If you get a chance to see it do so , its too good not to be seen .
Soapy Bravery in Ancient Greece	What is it about the tale of 300 Spartans holding off the whole of the Persian army that haunts us still ? At some point they'll make the great version of this story , until that day comes this film will do nicely . The plot has the 300 Spartans going off with a small band of other Greeks to perform a delaying action in a narrow pass against the vastly superior Persian Army . They delay the Persians for several days before a final and terrible battle that assured them their place in history . The battle scenes are wonderful , as is pretty much everything in this film . The problem is that they've shoehorned a love story into this testosterone charge film to the point it distracts from the rest of the film , it just doesn't belong . Actually most of the early part of the film , before the troops move out is rather soapy . However once the troops march the film picks up , and other than the damned romance is fine film . See this movie . Forgive the soap and you'll have a rousing good time . .
Examination of whats real , whats not and how we perceive what we see whether real or not	While watching a play on stage concerning the events around a " miraculous " birth , the pretend story begins to become real , however the audience isn't always aware of whats real and whats not leading to some tragic consequences . Hated by many , loved by others this is a tough film to watch . Most people will point to the rape that happens late in the film as an endurance test , others will point to some of the other nasty acts . I find the film hard to take because all of the characters are basically hateful . I don't think there is anyone we truly like anywhere in the film . To be certain we feel for some more than others , but everyone has an edge that keeps us distant . I like the film on many levels simply because the film provokes strong reactions and makes you think about what you are seeing . To be honest the film isn't perfect , as I said the film isn't filled with likable people , and the film also suffers in that one of its key points , that we as an audience sometimes take what we perceive to be entertainment too lightly , has been picked up and done almost to death thanks to reality shows , subsequent movies and just a casual looking at the media . That said the film still is a kick in the pants thanks to Greenaway's wizardry at putting the story on screen . Not for the squeamish or those upset by nasty acts including a never ending rape , this is worth a look for those who want to be challenged as to how we see the world .
Worthy sequel to an Oscar winning classic	The plot of the movie has Rocky still wanting to fight , still wanting to feel alive . Adrian has been gone for three years and his son is lost living in the shadow of a legend . Rocky survives by running a restaurant . When a boxing program that uses computers to pick the best fighter ever finds that Rocky would beat the current champ , Mason Dixon , an equally lost soul , the stage is set for a fight in the real world . This is not a fight film . Just like the first film , and to a lesser degree the second film , this is a movie about the characters . Its how they all interact thats important , indeed just like the first film the outcome of the fight is pushed to the background as we see the characters interact with each other . The movie works because Stallone has once again found his strength in characters and the writing is crisp . Its clear Stallone has rediscovered much since the last film about life and people and he's back in the territory that allowed the first film to win a Best Picture Oscar . I'm going to say something , and its not meant to damn the film but to express my feelings toward the film : If this film had a different director it would have been a classic . Stallone has written a damn good script but something about his direction is lacking . Maybe its the feeling that scenes are missing or that maybe the camera hangs a little too much on Rocky , but what ever it is , this addition to the Rocky saga hovers near classic territory but some how manages never to cross over despite some great moments . There is something about the film that just misses . I'm guessing that the film suffers ( to a much lesser degree ) from the same problem that the last film did , which was a need to please . I saw Rocky 5 as a rough cut a few weeks before it was released . The film played out very differently than the finished film and was less rousing and more serious . Somewhere along the way they changed the film to be crowd pleasing and made it something less ( much less ) than it was ( I won't watch Rocky 5 because the changes are just so bad ) . I really liked this movie . I would say that its probably the only worth sequel to the first film ( or maybe the first two ) . I'm unsure whether you could just watch the first film and have this work since much of the drama refers to what happened in all the earlier films . Yea it choked me up and brought a tear to my eye . Worth a look especially if you're a fan-especially of the first film .
Very good tale of a kid turning hero to save his friends and family is a nice change of pace for action director Miike	Where was this film when I was a kid ? After his parents split up Tadashi moves with his mom to live his his grandfather . Tadashi's sister stays with their dad and they talk frequently on the phone . Grandfather is only " here " every third day . Moms never really home . The kids always are picking on the poor kid . During a village festival Tadashi is chosen the " kirin rider " or spiritual champion of the peace and justice . Little does he suspect that soon he will have to actually step into role of hero as the forces of darkness join up with the rage of things discarded in a plot to destroy mankind and the spiritual world . Okay that was the easy part . Now comes the hard part , trying to explain the film . This is a great kids film . No this is a great film , flawed , ( very flawed ? ) but a great film none the less . It unfolds like all of those great books you loved as a kid and is just as dense at times as Tadashi struggles to find the strength to become a hero . Watching it I felt I was reading a great book , and thought how huge this would have been if it was a book . I loved that the film does not follow a normal path . Things often happen out of happenstance or through miscommunication , one character gets sucked into events simply because his foot falls asleep . There are twists and turns and moments that seem like non sequiters and are all the more charming for it ( which is typical Miike ) Certainly its a Takashi Miike film . That Japanese master of film is clearly in charge of a film that often touching , scary and funny all at the same time . No one except Miike seems to understand that you can have many emotions at the same time , or that you can suddenly have twists as things get dark one second and then funny the next . I admire the fact that Miike has made a film that is bleak and hopeful , that doesn't shy away from being scary , I mean really scary , especially for kids . This is the same dark territory that should be in the Harry Potter movies but rarely is . This a dark Grimms tale with humor . My first reaction upon seeing the opening image was that I couldn't believe anyone would begin a kids film with a picture of the end of the world , then I realized who was making the movie . Hats off to Miike for making a movie that knows kids can handle the frightening images . Its also operating on more than one level . The mechanical monsters that the bad guys make are forged from mankind's discarded junk . Its the rage of being thrown away that fuels the monsters . One of the Yokai ( spirits ) talks about the rage sneakers thrown away because they are dirty or too small feels when they are tossed . You also have one of the good guys refusing to join the bad guys because that would be the human thing to do . Its a wild concept , but like other things floating around its what lifts this movie to another level . ( there are a good many riffs and references to other movies , TV shows and novels that make me wonder who this film is for since kids may not understand them , though many parents will ) And of course there are the monsters . They run the gamut from cheesy to spectacular with stops everywhere in between . Frankly you have to forgive the unevenness of their creation simply because they are has to be hundreds if not thousands of monsters on screen . Its way cool and it works . One of the main characters is a Yokai which I think is best described as a hamster in a tunic and is often played by a stuffed animal , it looks dumb and yet you will be cheering the little bugger and loving every moment he rides on Tadashi's head . ( Acceptance is also easier if you've ever seen the old woodcuts of the weird Japanese monsters ) I mentioned flaws , and there are a few . The effects are uneven , some of the sudden turns are a bit odd ( even if understandable ) and a few other minor things which are fading now some two hours after watching the film . . None of them truly hurt the film over all , however most kind of keep you from being completely happy with the movie . I really loved this movie . I'm pretty sure that if I saw this as a kid it would have been my favorite film of all time . ( where's the English dub ? ) . See this movie . Its a great trip . ( Besides its a good introduction to the films of Miike minus the blood and graphic sex )
Very good	Really good version of Rear Window where a kid on house arrest realizes that his neighbor is a serial killer . While not scary as such ( you can pretty much guess where this is going to go because it is by the numbers ) this is a nice thrill ride that will keep you watching to the end . You like the kid and his friends and can sympathize with his plight . If there is a flaw its that the film could almost be a well made TV movie , there really is no reason this needed to be seen on the big screen ( other than the attention a genuinely good thriller would attract ) . Still this is worth seeing though I'd wait for a bargain matinée or a rental on a rainy Saturday night once it comes out on DVD .
beautiful	Simply put one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen . I adore the first three minutes of the film and have just watched them several times now . I adore the music and will have to see if I can run down a CD of it . The plot concerns an old man who lives on a derelict boat in the middle of the sea . He ferries people to and from it so they can fish . Living with him is a young girl who came to the boat when she was seven . The old man intends to marry the young girl when she turns 17 . All is fine until one day a young man the girls age shows up and begins to awaken her curiosity about the outside world . Ultimately more fable than real life this is a very good film . The odd dynamic between the old man and the young girl may upset some people but it flows naturally out of the situation . Its also a film that doesn't play to expectations , so much so that I really will have to sit down and watch the film again , there are a couple of things that happen that seem odd or out of place on first viewing that may not be that way once you reach the end . I'm not sure what I make of it all , however I do know the film still haunts me and on some level colored everything I watched after that .
Once it gets going this is a great adventure	Its an odd mix of computer and regular animation who's blending doesn't always seem seamless . It does work better than Dreamworks earlier Spirit since the mix helps to add to the other worldliness of some of the bits . The basic plot has Sinbad trying to steal The Book of Peace from a ship on the ocean . When he finally runs down the ship he finds its commanded by a boyhood friend . Not one to stand on ceremony he attempts to steal the book only to be interrupted by a kraken like being sent by the goddess Eris . Together the pair defeat the beast , in one of the great set pieces of the film , but in the process Sinbad is swept overboard only to be rescued by Eris who tells him to steal the book for her and she'll make him rich . Sinbad agrees , but for reasons left for the viewing , he backs out only to be blamed for the theft anyway . His friend knows he's innocent and takes his place so Sinbad can attempt to get the book back with in the ten days before his execution . Thats the first fifteen minutes . Its not as exciting as all of that , these fifteen minutes I mean , since its badly handled exposition done to get the plot really moving . I have a suspicion that the voyage was designed before the framing sequences and that the inclusion of Eris was done simply because it was a way to get the wheels in motion and have a magical air to it all . The voice cast is uniformly excellent . It is quite possibly the best voice cast of this stature that I've seen in a long time . ( That should be heard ) . The joys of the listening to Pitt , Pfeiffer , and Zeta-Jones is that they really are acting and really are selling the film . I can imagine everyone being on set and acting together even though the fact is far from the truth . The writing is excellent and you can see that the film really was written as if it were a live action film in the way that the characters hang together is a more real way than in many animated films where characters are of a type and nothing more . Here the characters are people which is nice . Because the writing is so good the reasons for things are clearer than in most animated films these are people reasons not cartoon reasons , for example the reason why Sinbad was gone for ten years could only have been come upon by someone who wrote a real script instead of fumbled around with a storyboard . This small moment is , for me one of the high points of the film . The dialog is fantastic , witty and snide and dead nuts on . The film is best viewed as a film that exists only for the voyage since thats the best part and what a voyage it is . Here the film becomes a series of wonderful set pieces that are joy to behold , but are at times regrettably undercut by the bad directed linking material . Beyond saying ignore the links I want to say little about the actual film other than that the kraken sequence , the dragons teeth sequence , the island hopping , the snow bird and several others are fantastic adventure sequences that rouse you up and get you into the mood to go adventuring . This is great stuff . And while this is a grand adventure it should be stated that this is a grand ROMANCE . Oh my word its wonderful , pull those little heart strings why don't you . This is the romance of Nick and Nora or Spencer and Susan , but with action added in . And even as I wax poetic about the movie I must remind you that even as the voyage builds to a conclusion the movie wobbles a bit at the end , not the very end , but a couple of minutes before when I was going to myself , " thats it ? You mean all of that and thats it ? " Its bad direction I'm telling you ( that or studio interference ) . there shouldn't be that bump towards the end . . . But lest you worry it picks up and ends with a bang
Very Funny	Good enough to make you wish it were longer , while being smart enough to stop before it wears out its welcome this melding of Pooh and Viet Nam is a short treat . Almost impossible to find this film is worth searching out if you like film conventions turned on their heads . This is a clever parody makes you wish that you had been both clever and talented enough to think of it . You will forgive the lack of details but the film being so short I'd rather not ruin any of the bits for you . . See it if you can .
Great cast of horror vets bring life to a " lost " gem	Dr Cadman saves the life of an old student , Ramsay , by giving him a drug nick named the " black sleep " prior to his going to the gallows . The drug simulates death and Ramsay is believed to have died before the hangman could have his way with him . Cadman revives Ramsay and has him help with his operations mapping the centers of the brain . Of course Cadman is mad , his desire to help his wife who is in a coma , has reduced him to using means that are less than savory . Tension mounts as Ramsay's good nature clashes with Cadman and the weird things that are going on in the house . Somehow this little gem slipped under my radar and it wasn't until recently that I even knew this movie existed . With a cast that would be the delight of any classic horror movie fan ( Basil Rathbone , Bela Lugosi , Lon Chaney , John Carradine , Tor Johnson , Akim Tamiroff ) this is a one of those movies that they don't make any more . This is an odd mix of what you think of as classic horror and modern graphic visuals with a moody castle passageways and graphic brain operations and disfigured monsters . It walks that fine line of being link between the Universal style horror films of the 30's and 40's and the drive in monster fare of the 50's and 60's ( it feels like a black and white version of the Hammer Frankenstein films or something like Blood of the Vampire ) . Its a great deal of fun , and more than a tad creepy and tense since you really can't be sure whats going to happen next . In its way its a classic of its kind . My only real complaint is that the casting of Lugosi , Johnson and Carradine is a bit misleading since Lugosi only has a few scenes as a mute butler , and Carradine and Johnson only show up in the final 15 minutes . They are really no more than cameos and don't deserve the high placement in the credits they receive . Definitely high on my recommend list to anyone who likes classic style horror . This is a movie to search out and enjoy late on a rainy Saturday night .
From hate - Hope	" 911 showed us what human beings were capable of , certainly the evil , but also the good . . . . " paraphrase of Nicholas Cage toward the end of World Trade Center Oliver Stone puts you into Manhattan on the day the towers fell and shows you the story of a couple of Port Authority Policemen who were trapped in the rubble and what happened to them and their families . Some people love it some people hate it . I really like it . Stone manages to convey what it was like in New York and what it was like for the cops and firemen down at ground zero . These are not macho men but regular guys simply doing what had to be done . Every act of heroism is tinged with " I don't want to be here " which makes it even more touching . The film is essentially split in two , the people at ground zero and the people back home waiting for word . Its an odd split and its the films biggest weakness . I understand that by showing the families Stone makes the story bigger than just some guys trapped , but at the same time the split makes the film remain a Hollywood film instead of something greater . Its not bad , its just that the story down in the rubble does not come across as cliché tinged . Technically this film is amazing . It looks and sounds good . The shots of Manhattan and around ground zero are frighteningly perfect . Yes I know a portion of the film was shot in NYC but much was shot elsewhere . Having wandered around the streets down there I can guess which shot is which street and the sense of it all being real comes not from having seen photos but rather from seeing the real places . The best part of this film is that its about hope and the goodness of people . The world is shaken and people attempt to fix it . As Cage says at the end its showed us what people are capable of . . . this film is a celebration of the good .
Tasteless But Hysterical Destruction of Japanese Pop Culture	First off two questions : 1 . How well do you know Japanese pop culture ? Have you seen Japanese yakuza films ? Godzilla ? Do you know Zatoichi and Lone Wolf and Cub ? How about Ultraman ? Have you watched things like Extreme Elimination on Spike ( which is a Beat Takeshi TV show ) ? Do you know about their attitudes towards sex ? 2 . Are you bothered by base humor that goes for the lowest common denominator ? Get you get past woman being nothing more than objects to take their clothes off ? Do you laugh at poop jokes or for that matter just really dumb jokes ? If you know a bit about Japanese culture and can laugh at stupid jokes then this is for you . Starting as one man's quest to get a car so he can have sex in it , this film morphs into a destruction of dozens of Japanese icons . It proves that Western eyes aren't the only ones who find much of Japanese culture silly . If you have a passing awareness of what they are sending up and tearing down this is absolutely hysterical . Granted you won't get everything , but you'll probably smile from start to finish with frequent bursts of laughter . One of the chief reasons this works is that there is intelligence behind the humor . Yes , the hero is a pig , and his attitudes towards women are terrible , but thats the point and much of the pain that he ends up getting he deserves for being the way he is . The jokes about the icons is often dead on , for example the film dismantles Lone Wolf and Cub in a minute and a half so perfectly I doubt that I'll be able to watch the movies with a straight face ever again . If you know Japanese culture and love to laugh see this movie . You may not love it all , but you will laugh . A word of warning - this movie would be rated R if released in the US . Not just for the sex and nudity , but for the scatological humor which cross over into the graphic . For Japanophiles with a low brow sense of humor . For everyone else .
More important today then when it was made	Ingmar Bergman's meditation on war concerns a couple living an idyllic existence on a small island off the coast ( of what country isn't specified ) . Raging off in the distance is a war they know only from news reports . As they go about their day the war comes to them and it soon becomes a struggle for survival as both sides seem not to care about them . Bleak look at the human cost of war and those not readily engaged in battle but caught in the cross fire none the less . Its a movie ahead of its time as some 40 years since it was made the notion of armies at war where most of the casualties are the civilians have come of age . This is a dark disturbing film that is told from the average person's point of view with the complete sense of hopeless and confusion best expressed in the thought that kept running through my head , " what do I do now ? " . As an intellectual exercise the film is top notch , this is a film that will make you think . As an emotional film it is touching but never fully moving . I was never moved emotionally even as the horror of the situation made my brain do flip flops . ( I should state that I admire Bergman intellectually for the ideas that he brings to the table , however I have never been moved by his films . I am not a " fan " . I always sided with Fellini in the old film class argument as to who was better since he had more emotion to his films ) . Reservations aside this is require viewing especially since we live in a world were war , for most of us , is just a thing on a TV screen .
Dark Brooding police thriller is one of the best cop films of the last couple of years	Solid police drama that is the best of the recent crop of cop movies . The story starts with the murder of four police officers close to Christmas . Everyone wants to know how such a thing could happen . The dead men were part of a group of men headed by Colin Ferrell . Ferrell is in the precinct commanded by his brother in law played by Noah Emmerich . Complicating matters is the fact that Edward Norton , Emmerich's brother is brought into help investigate the murders . As the brothers separately look to get at the truth that took the lives of their fellow officers , they are confronted by questions of loyalty not only to their fellow cops but also their family . Ultimately the question becomes how far does one go to do the right thing when the right thing means hurting friends and family . Dark brooding and intense this is simply one of the best cop thrillers I've seen in the last couple of years . Simply and sharply focused on the story at hand , a simple tale of bad cops , good cops and those who are somewhere in between . There are no grand chases . There are no spectacular twists , it all remains nicely on the human level . Where recent films such as We Own the Night and Street Kings spin out these large scale plot this one stays nicely focused on the street . How would cops move in their world ? How do they handle situations that spiral out of control ? Its nice not to get grand plans with far reaching fingers or big shoot outs . A word of warning . Though there are no big shoot outs the violence can be rather intense and unexpected be prepared . A sterling film both in front of and behind the camera , its a film I highly recommend .
Well done look at Tarzan and the six films that Weissmuller and O'Sullivan did for MGM . Good fun even for non fans of the series	Made for Turner Classic movies and packaged in with the Warner Brothers DVD release of the first six MGM Tarzan movies this is an over view of the character of Tarzan from his creation through to the production of Tarzan's New York Adventure . It's a very informative look at the world's favorite jungle man as seen in 6 MGM movies . This is your typical Warner classic documentary with lots of talking heads ( Rudy Behlmer , Robert Osborne , Johnny Weissmuller Jr not to mention Edgar Rice Burroughs experts ) plus tons of stills and clips . Its a really nice over view of the MGM series that reveals many new stories and corrects many falsely held ones ( for example Burroughs actually liked the films , I had always heard otherwise ) . It's a good amount of information told in an entertaining way . While I'm not a huge fan of this bunch of Tarzan films , I find them fun , but somewhat too silly , I did find that my interest has been piqued enough by what I learned to go back and re-watch the films ( I'm dying to see if I notice the fake elephant ears in the films themselves ) . If there is a flaw to this documentary its that the film runs out of steam towards the end . For what ever reason the 80 minute running time is too long for whats up on screen . Minor complaint aside this if absolutely worth seeing , especially if you've ever seen any of the films , or wondered about whether Maureen O'Sullivan was the one doing the nude swim scene .
Almost as good as the original	This version of the Scopes Trial is better than the first TV version for several reasons , the first is that its a reasonable running time . Next it doesn't have breaks for commercials , this was done for cable and not commercial TV . Lastly this has the performances of Lemon and Scott who come damn close to equaling Tracy and March in the first version of this . George C Scott was to star on Broadway in a revival of this play a year or two before he made this film . Illness prevented him appearing in most of the run , but based on this performance seeing it live must have been electric . There are several small moments , one near the end of the film in particular where his mastery of acting shine through . In that final moment , the weight of the battle and its implications loom large , sitting on his bed with his wife he begins to break down in ways that are touching and heart breaking . Lemmon is his equal and he easily makes this one for the ages as he spars with Scott about what is and is not history and sacred . This is a great TV movie which only has as its flaw the fact that its not the original .
perfect for a dark and stormy night	Until today I had never seen this film . Its was filmed on the sets of the Old Dark House and Frankenstein and concerns a small Bavarian village where supposedly giant bats are sucking the blood of the villagers . Frankly its a damn good movie that has atmosphere to spare and a cast that won't quit , Lionel Atwill , Dwight Frye , Faye Wray and Melvin Douglas playing a character named Brettschnieder which is of interest to me since that was my great grandmother's maiden name . This is a carefully modulated film that has suspense and witty one liners that slowly builds for its brief running time , only going astray when about ten minutes before the end they realized they had limited time to wrap everything up . From that point to the end its a straight run to the finish with very little of the fun that preceded it . Leonard Maltin and IMDb list a running time of 71 minutes and warn of shorter prints . The trouble is that IMDb and Maltin can be wrong , and in this case I think they are since a source I trust more says the full running time is 67 minutes ( The Overlook Film Encyclopedia ) Quibbling about this I know is insane but since most prints that are available tend to run around 60-63 minutes the amount of missing material is considerably less if its only 67 minutes long . Personally I think it won't matter that much since its at most five minutes and I doubt very much it will make or break the film . What ever the running time , if you like creaky old films , do , by all means do , watch this movie , its a great dark and stormy night film .
Great fantasy film is a lot of fun and great to look at .	What a great looking movie . Several demons come to earth to begin plans for taking over the world . Standing in their way is Maciste a super strong good guy . The demons offer Maciste anything he wants if he will aid them however he turns them down . They eventually trick Maciste so that he ends up in hell where he proceeds to mop up the place . If you've ever seen any of the sword and sandal films from the 1950's and 1960's with Maciste you're looking at the same character . Created in the 1913 film Cabria the do gooding muscle man has been helping the down trodden ever since . Not dressed as a muscle man , but instead as a country gentleman , Maciste's appearance may throw some people off , but rest assured its the same guy . I love this movie . Its a great deal of fun . It looks great with demons , dragons and a giant that put most other film makers to shame ( at least until the advent of computer graphics ) . This is an epic with thousands of demons and huge sets and great action and everything about a movie that makes you go WOW . There is a wonderful moral sense to the film that we no longer have and which adds a nice dimension to the film . It also doesn't go in the direction you think it will which is great for those who think they've seen it all . Silent or no , this is one of the best muscle man movies there is ( trust me I've seen most of them ) and is worth searching out . Even better its a damn fine movie in its own right . See this movie or I'll send the flying demons after you .
Fun and better than it has any right to be	Midlife crisis biker flick as four middle aged guys go for a ride and end up running a foul of Ray Liotta and his biker pals . Its exactly what you think it is and all the better for it . Its rare these days to run across a flick like this that would be worth seeing in the theater . jovial and good natured , with JohnTravolta and Peter Fonda actually turning in good performances this is one of those movies that will be on cable forever and which you'll stop to watch every time . Is it great , oh dear god no , but its a little engine that could sort of movie that does exactly what it was suppose to-entertain-even in a been there done that sort of way . I was shocked that it was as good as it is . Its sort of like in baseball's inter-league play , where the pitchers who never hit suddenly surprise everyone by hitting a double or a triple . Worth taking a look at - and you'll probably have ample chance to do so once this bad boy hits cable .
Destined to be a classic	Bond is back and he's kicking butt . The best Bond in years , this is a no nonsense approach thats more or less realistic , certainly the most realistic of all Bond films yet produced ( except for maybe the first hour of Die Another Day and a good chunk of For Your Eyes Only ) . This is the Bond of the books , mean and nasty and doing what ever it takes . The plot has the recently appointed 007 going after a terrorist organization . Bond follows the money and he soon finds himself in the middle of a high stakes poker game where the terrorist money man is trying desperately to win back the money he's lost gambling . Along the way there is a great deal of brutal in your face action as Bond kills or destroys anything that gets in his way . Its more amazing than the action in most of the last five or six films because the film is so close to real so you actually feel more danger , this could happen while an invisible car probably won't Its edge of your seat material , with Daniel Craig turning in a dynamite performance as Bond . If the film has any real flaw its that its too long . Running almost two and a half hours the film stalls after the poker game and Bond's capture . There is a dead spot , more a false ending , before the finale in Venice , which while exciting and one of the great movie action scenes , seems some how anti climatic . Its not a fatal flaw , but if you're like me you'll reach this one point and then be ready for the exit . I looked at my watch and found that there was still 25 minutes to go . If you're an action fan or Bond fan see this movie . Its destined to be a classic .
A Good Mystery	Although not perfect , this is a film that cheats its audience in order to have a proper running time , this is still a good film . The basic plot has a man from America going to England because he has inherited a house . Amazingly when he gets there , he finds that there are people there already who threaten him and run him off . With the help of a friend who is a well known detective he tries to get to the bottom of it all and falls in love in the process . This is a very good old dark house story , or would be if the film were really set in the house . Much of the movie is involved in getting into the house and in wooing the girl . As I mentioned earlier this is also a movie that can be frustrating since several times characters are about to talk about whats going on when the movie fades to black or cuts to the next scene . Its annoying , for some fatally so , for me I just shrugged and went with it . There is no reason for the fades , other than to annoy the audience since in all but one instance and earlier fade out would have been less maddening . Should you run across this on late night TV give it a shot . Its a nice way to spend an hour .
Let the film take you where it will and you'l have a good time	Based on a true story of a trio of Journalists looking for a war criminal in the former Yugoslavia . The Original group included Jon Krakauer , in the movie we have Terrence Howard and Richard Gere . Where originally it started as a bunch of journalists getting drunk and deciding to go out and find the bad guys , here we have Gere as a washed up TV reporter convincing his old camera man and a network executive ( who got the job because of nepotism ) that he can get an interview with " the Fox " if they are willing to go along with him . They go and things instantly begin to go side ways as nothing is as it seems and no one believes they aren't with the CIA . Not to put too fine a point on it I really liked this film a great deal . Its witty intelligent with lots of likable characters and a real sense of both humor and reality . Its probably three quarters of one of the most enjoyable films of the year ( even with the nastiness . ) What can I say I'm a sucker for great buddy films and Terrence Howard and Richard Gere have an ease when together that makes you certain that they have been friends for decades . Its magical . If there is a problem with the film its that the film kind of loses steam toward the end . Somewhere the need for an " ending " kind of gets in the way of things and the film begins to be a bit less . . . I don't know , fun . Don't get me wrong its still better than many other recent films , but its just disappointing that things have to be " neat " . Of course the pre-final credits explanation of whats real and what isn't a scream . See this movie , thats all I have to say . See it and go with its vibe and I think you'll have a good time . And forgive me for being spotty about things since I'm trying not to say too much since not knowing what happens is part of the joy .
Worth making a five dollar bet on	Neil Hamilton plays a District Attorney investigating the murder of a boxer moments before a championship fight . The fighter collapsed with no clear signs of foul play after a tribute to a recently deceased champion . Forced to match wits and trade wisecracks with a mystery writer , played by Evelyn Venable , the DA must try to contend with an arena full of suspects including Smiley Burnette . This is a great little thriller that gets along mostly on the winning performance of the two leads and the smart quips they trade . They are a later day Nick and Nora who are forever trying to one up each other so as to win which ever five dollar bet that is currently passing between them . While the murder itself doesn't make a great deal of sense when its finally revealed , you really won't care since you'll be having too much fun watching the DA and mystery writer try to out do the other . I have to say that the look and feel of this movie is spectacular . Looking at it you'd be hard pressed to believe that this was a B-movie with its large cast , numerous and varying sets . Actually to be honest this is what B-movies really used to be , well produced features for the second part of a double bill . If it wasn't for the B-list cast this could easily pass for a main feature . This is little gem thats worth keeping an eye out for .
Only the suit remains from the comic in a great pure nonsense serial full of fantastic action	Yes it's the Captain America of the comics , but only in regard to the suit . Instead of a super soldier fighting Nazi's here we have a district attorney fighting the scarab who is killing off the members of an archaeological expedition using a gas that leave purple blotches . Starring Dick Purcell as the Captain and Lionel Atwill as the Scarab this is neat little serial . Neat as in fun , not in regard to story . Well acted and well filmed , the story is a complete nonsensical mess . Nothing makes any real sense , trust me your brain will go into knots if you take it seriously , even on its own terms . Mostly you watch it because of the cast having such a great time and because the action is some of the best in any serial . The action scenes are huge explosions of chaos that seem bigger and more dangerous then almost any other chapter play . Usually they end in wild cliffhangers that are so daunting that the only way for the hero to escape is for the filmmakers to cheat . And cheat they do . There is a reason that the documentaries I've seen on serials use footage from this film to illustrate how the serials cheated , namely almost every cliffhanger involves a cheat . Even though it makes no sense and the cliffhangers cheat this is still a blast to watch . There is something to put on when you want some mindless ( wholesome ) action . Recommended .
In name only sequel to the first Sabata film is a very good western worth your time and popcorn	Sort of sequel to the earlier Sabata with Lee Van Cleef , this was filmed as Indio Black and is known as that in several countries . The title was changed when the distributor paid for the right to use the name Sabata from the original films producer . The result is Sabata becomes a dead ringer for Chris , Yul Brynner's character from the Magnificent Seven films ( a character Van Cleef was playing in a movie shot at the same time as this ) . Aren't the back stage maneuvering of Spaghetti Westerns fun ? Some times the stories are more fun than the movies . Fortunately this movie is more fun than the story . The plot has Sabata ( Yul Brenner ) helping Mexican revolutionaries attempting to over throw the Emperor Maximilian . Sabata is to steal some gold and then use it to buy guns to attack an evil General . However things don't go as planned and when they go to steal the gold someone else is already there . Add to the whole mix spies , greed and some odd left turns and you get one entertaining , but not very coherent movie . Don't get me wrong I like this movie a great deal , I just wish it made some sense . Characters appear out of left field when it suits the plot , people don't do anything logical ( I mean if you just stole a wagon full of gold you'd make sure that the gold was really there wouldn't you ? ) , after a certain point its never clear if they are keeping the gold or giving it to the revolution . Its enough to drive you crazy if you let it . I didn't since a good many of the spaghetti westerns I've seen make even less sense then this one . If you like Westerns this is one to see . Its perfect for a rainy Sunday afternoon . I'm still not sure if I think of Brenner's character as Sabata , but it doesn't matter since no matter what he's called he's a kick ass hero with a smart ass mouth . What more could you want ?
Unnerving tale of horror from Spain is one to watch with the lights on .	This is the story of an English married couple on vacation in the Mediterranean . While enjoying the sights on the coast they decide to rent a boat and go over to a near by island . It quickly transpires that all is not well on the island and the reason there doesn't seem to be any adults is that the kids have come up with a murderous new game that has removed them . An excellent , but damn near impossible film to see , this is one of those movies thats been unjustly lost to the ages . Its a slowly building well modulated horror film that sneaks up on you even when you know whats going on . Its not really a gory or bloody film , instead this is a film of ideas , where the notion of being alone and out numbered against a terrible enemy is made all the worse by the fact that we humans are almost programmed not to harm our young , even when they do truly evil things . Could you really kill a child - especially one that looks so completely harmless ? Originally filmed as a sort of horrific allegory about children and the nature of war the film , played in the severely cut version I saw ( by about 20 minutes ) , as a frightening film where the monster is one you can't bring yourself to kill even when you know its going to devour you . I'm sure that one can read into it a subtext about how we treat law breaking children , but I would prefer just to see it as a scary movie . . . Definitely a movie you'll want to keep an eye out for or search out ( under one of its many titles ) . A semi-recent DVD release seems to have come and gone with out making a blip on the radar so you'll want to remain sharp eyed . ( I'd go for any version I can find since I saw a 90 minute version and it played fine-even though the full version is some 20 minutes longer )
This one has everything , and then some	The question I'm asked is why do I watch movies like this with any frequency ? The answer has to do with the monsters and the fact that many of these things throw everything at you except for the kitchen sink , and that's only left out because it wasn't invented yet . After a war ends Goliath prepares to head home , except that Bokan , the regent of his country has sent assassins to kill Goliath since he is the only one who could take the place of the dead king , a fact that would put Bokan out of a job . Bokan is not standing for any opposition to his rue and he pitches anyone who doesn't like him into a valley where giants live , Giants who were put there by Goliath years before . Trying to get home faster Goliath and his friends try to go by sea but get waylaid on the voyage . Its at this point that the movie throws in everything except the kitchen sink , and perhaps aliens , as Goliath has to face a storm at sea , sea monsters , assassins , Amazons , a gorilla , lions , weird torture devices , gladiators , cave men and giants . I'm sure I'm forgetting something , but I don't know what . Best of all the whole thing is told spectacularly and with a decent budget , something that is missing from most movies of this sort . My only complaint is that it gets a bit draggy in the middle for a couple of minutes , but other than that this is a really good mindless adventure . If you want to see a movie with everything give this a try .
Go with it and you'll love it	Contrived and artificial confection like a Twinkie that is completely enjoyable if you go with it . The premise is that Jack Nicholson who's rich but unhappy and Mogan Freeman who's poor and happy both end up with terminal cancer . Bonding in a hospital room they decide to create a list of things to do before they die and then do them . Its a feel good weepie thats there to make you feel like getting off your duff and doing something . . . until the tears stop and you change the channel . Flaws aside its a really good movie for what it is .
Fast paced thriller is over and done before you have time to think about it	I'm not sure how much to say about this movie . The plot concerning what happens when boy meets girl on a red eye flight , is wafer thin but tasty enough to keep you eating until the very end ( I suggest you not think about it too much and just let it do what its gonna do ) . Some reviews have been sparing with the details saying that its a movie best experienced than heard about . I tend to agree . Wes Craven has made a perfectly paced movie with nary a wasted frame anywhere . This moves like the wind and keeps you on the edge of your seat for its brief running time . From the second this movie starts until the end you're hooked like a heroine junkie . Its like being on a white knuckle thrill ride with no escape . Craven again proves that he's a master film maker despite some recent misfires . This is a film that hearkens back to the great days of B-movies when studios turned out small little thrillers , like the original Narrow Margin , which packed a large number of thrills into just over an hour . Easily one of the better movies thats Hollywood has turned out this year . See this . ( just take it on its own terms )
There are no giant monsters here	Melodramatic for certain , but who would have thought that anyone would have made a film about the implications of an attack on the US by nuclear weapons in 1962 ? Certainly its amazing that there are no monsters lurking about , unless you count us as monsters . The plot is simple , a sheriff is ordered to stop people on a lonely road late one night . The blockade is set up because the country is under attack and they don't want people running into the cities as everyone is trying to get out . What happens after everyone is stopped is what makes up the bulk of this movie . As I said at the top its a bit melodramatic , we get the usual cross section of humanity all running past the same point in the road . However despite the melodrama things always remain interesting . We want to know what happens next because we care about most of the characters . Its their interplay that makes the movie work and be as watchable as it is . And what happens is certainly not what you expect from a " Hollywood " film . Highly recommended . .
A very good , very charming romantic comedy	Let me say it up front , this is one of the most romantic films I've seen in ages . Its also wonderfully , sweetly funny . And at risk of cursing myself I want to say that its a chick flick that guys will love too . The plot of this film has a young beautiful spy from North Korea going south to capture another rogue spy . She goes undercover at Burger King and soon she's battling with her co-workers for the affections of the local boys , dealing with a culture clash between North and South , and a very cute young man who's posted pictures of her on a website of local " angels " possibly blowing her cover . How do I describe this film ? How can I sell this with out over selling it ? This is a great little film . Its a small little confection that will make you smile and feel good and give a big hug to the one you love . The comedy is broad at times , crossing into slapstick , but more often than not its very clever . A good deal of it has to do with the fact that our heroine is a spy and can kick everyone's ass , only they just don't know it . The romance . . . What can I say , its almost dead on perfect . What can I say about a modern film where they create tension as to whether two people will simply hold hands ? No , its not perfect . The problem is that some of it is so goofy , in particular the sub-plot about the loan shark and the old spies , that it seems to be part of another movie . The other movie is good , it just doesn't fully mesh with the one we're watching . I can't recommend this movie enough . Its a wonderful fragile little creation that will make you feel really warm and fuzzy for all of the right reasons . . Search this out and watch it with someone you love .
An off beat telling of the Legend	Unable to support the war in Troy , the Greeks begin raiding along the coast . While the classic heroes are off raiding the Trojans try a sneak attack against those that remain behind . Just as the battle turns against the Greeks , Achilles arrives to save the day . . . so goes the first 20 minutes of the film . This is a telling of the end of the Trojan war just prior to the death of Achilles . Its a very strange film in that for a good portion of it you really can't stand the Greeks who are more interested in raping than fighting the war . They are shown to be petty people who are not really heroic and who spend more time fighting over women and gold than matters of state . This is a big movie with a cast of thousands so you really do get armies clashing . Unfortunately the movie is very unfocused and feels stretched by about 20 minutes , which is a shame since its one of the best made films of this genre , but its not the best told . I liked it but I wanted to love it .
Sins of the sons lay waste to everything around them	Greek tragedy of operatic proportions as two brothers looking for quick money decided to rob a mom and pop Jewelry store-their mom and pop's . Almost unbearable decent into darkness as we see the event and then bounce between the days prior and after from various points of view . This is a world of flawed people in which its hard to root for anyone . Its a road accident of a tale and you can't look away as the sins of the sons leave destruction visited on their father and everyone else in the of a really bad idea wake . Philip Seymour Hoffman is quite good as the slimeball brother who sets it all in motion in the hope of making some quick cash . Ethan Hawk is just okay as the brother who knows its wrong but goes with it anyway ( Hawks problem is that its too mannered . or affected . I should have been more on his side but instead found myself distanced ) . An excellent movie filled with darkness that maybe a bit too intense and too dark for some viewers ( and even reviewers who rated it highly but left it off the best of the year lists ) . I'm finding it rattling around in my head , its bleak look making me admire it more than I like it . Liking it to me somehow meaning that I'd actually want to see this again , which I'm not sure I'd want to do ( and not wanting to dwell on the details is keeping me from discussing the film the way it should be discussed ) . Grand film-making from Sidney Lumet . Probably one of the years best ( - reduced to for IMDb purposes because I don't know if I need to see this again )
Excellent meditation on ( a ) man in the wilderness	The lives and deaths of Timothy Treadwell and his girlfriend Amie Huguenard in the wilds of Alaska are far from simple . Treadwell fancied himself a lone man holding back the evils of civilization from the bears he loved . As to whether he actually did that or any good is open to debate . Werner Herzog took the hundred plus hours of footage shot by Treadwell , adding his own footage of interviews with people who knew Treadwell and formed it into a documentary that tries to get into the mind of man and to understand what he was trying to do . ( The film is almost totally silent about Huguenard , who barely appears in any of the footage and who's family and friends refused to speak to Herzog ) Its a riveting portrait of an obsessive man who ultimately had his own view of the world and of nature . Its an up and down portrait that makes you think and feel and think some more as we travel along with Herzog in his attempt to get to know a man who died doing what he loved . As with many of the people that Herzog has profiled in the past you both love and hate the man , who turns out to be far more shaded than most black and white portraits ever are . Frankly I don't know what I think of Treadwell and his mission to " save the bears " since its never clear what he was actually doing other than being a " bear " himself . I'm troubled by the fact that the one time we see other people come close to the bears Treadwell remains in hiding as these " tourists " throw rocks at his friends . Its an interesting turn from a man who professes endlessly that he is keeping the bears safe . Which is the real Timothy Treadwell ? I don't have an answer . Its a question thats going to be haunting me for several days to come . Its the sort of reaction I love to get from a movie since it forces you to think about what you've just seen instead of having it spoon fed to you . See this movie . Its a movie that shows you more than just cute little animals roaming in the wild . Its a film that makes you wonder about mankind and his place in the world and in the wild . ( Just be ready for very graphic descriptions of the deaths of Treadwell and his girlfriend )
If you're a fan and know what you're in for see this movie , it's better than the first film . If you don't know what this movie is avoid it like the plague	How do you review something thats review proof ? Simply put this is a collection of twisted painful gross out stunts that will appeal to the twelve year old in all of us . Its better than the first film in that there is almost no set up for each bit , its just one thing after another after another . It never stops , it never slows and its frequently in really bad taste . Its a greatest hits for an un-aired season . Not that I mind . I'm amused by this sort of thing when its done well and here it is . So for 90 minutes I was a twelve year old again and was totally content to watch people hurt themselves . If your inner child is still twelve and very low brow see this film . ( And just a word of warning-if you want to take your kids to this , don't . This film is rather graphic in many ways that should have gotten this film an NC17 rating . This is for adults who think they are still kids . )
Story of a doctor and his wife is one of the creepiest films I've seen in years . Its a perfect marriage of sound and image for maximum uneasy effect	Shinya Tsukamoto , the man behind the Tetsuo films , Snake of June and Tokyo Fist takes on Edogawa Rampo story and turns in one of the most perfect marriages of sound and image I've ever run across not to mention one of the creepiest films I've seen in a very very long time . Yukio is a famous doctor who won fame treating the war wounded . He is much in demand by the wealthy and so has little time for the poor in a nearby slum where the plague has been running rampant . Yukio is also recently married to a young woman he met by the riverside and who is suffering from amnesia . Soon a dark figure is lurking about and after Yukio's father dies under mysterious and unnatural circumstances things begin to take a turn for the worse . What can I say ? This is a creepy little thriller that will haunt you and keep you feeling off balance . Every shot seems to have been perfectly designed for maximum beauty . The soundtrack is a wonderful mixture of sound and music calculated to give the sense of things being not right . The effect of the sound plus the image is a sense of dread and unease even when there is nothing out of the ordinary in the frame , few thrillers or horror films have ever been able to make you feel so off by doing so little . Adding to it all is the plot which I'm told takes the Rampo story as a jumping off point and then spins it out with new complications . Give it big points for its ability to keep you guessing as to what is going on even if you know whats going on . Having read on the film I knew what was happening and yet I still had to entertain numerous other possibilities . This movie masterfully makes you wonder about what is real and what is not . I really liked this movie great deal . I don't know if its fully on its own terms or simply that its not another Japanese or Asian horror film with a long hair female ghost lurking about , honestly I don't care because the film is just so damn good it wouldn't really matter anyway . See this movie .
Excellent early alternate Charlie Chan	One of the few Chan movies to actually be based on one of the original novels this is essentially the start of the series of movies that many people know and love so well . The story was later shortened and reused as Charlie Chan's Murder Cruise . This was shot at the same time as an alternate Spanish version of the now lost Charlie Chan Carries On , and is an excellent take on the great detective . The plot begins in London where a friend of Chan's , an Inspector Duff , is called in to investigate the murder of one of a travel group touring the world . It transpires that one of the group is not who they say they are and is out for revenge of a past wrong . Two more murders follow as the group continues the tour , but still there is no sign of the killer . When events in China put another member of the party in danger , Duff is forced to act and he races to Hawaii to see his old friend Charlie Chan to ask his help with the case before the party leaves . While visiting Chan in his office Duff is shot down . Chan feeling an obligation to his fallen friend tells the medics who rush Duff to the hospital to tell his friend that " Charlie Chan carries on " . Chan joins the party as they board a ship for San Fransisco , vowing to either solve the murder by the time they arrive or retire if he hasn't . ( The appearance of Chan is half way into the movie , and its the point at which Murder Cruise begins ) . This is a really good little movie and its understandable why a series sprang from it . Even though Chan doesn't show up for a good while into the proceeding , he hangs over the film since Duff is constantly quoting things that his friend Chan might say . The mystery is tightly plotted and keeps you on the edge of your seat . Its so well done that I didn't mind not seeing Chan in action and found myself actually wishing for a series of films with Inspector Duff of Scotland Yard . Manuel Arbó is a great Chan . A very physical actor he moves and does things that Warner Oland , and the other actor's playing Chan rarely did , he got on his knees to detect , rifles through drawers and actually does hands on investigating . Chan is also a very clearly two men . Outwardly he is the quiet font of Chinese wisdom that most people feel they can under estimate . Inwardly and when he is in the hunt he is a man of action who knows what has to be done and how to do it . Watch how he searches a room , or in the final reel sets the trap for the killer . He moves in a way that none of the other Chans ever did . He is not just a man of words , but a man of action who is very clearly in control of what is going on . Arbo is made to look physically like Oland , no doubt to use shots from the other version , however there is something more commanding about his presence . You are very aware of his presence in a scene , even when he is on the out skirts of it . I would love to have seen how the series would have played out had Arbo been allowed to play the detective . ( Perhaps what makes this film so great is that it doesn't follow the the pattern of the series ) . This is a movie to search out . If you can find it somewhere by all means do see it . There is an English subtitled version floating around if you don't speak Spanish ( This may carry the English translation of the title They Were Thirteen ) . Even if you are not a Charlie Chan fan this is just a really good mystery . This is the sort of thing that people don't make any more , it feels like a movie you'll want to curl up with on a dark a stormy night .
Excellent and truly Oscar worthy	Yes it is better than Pan's Labyrinth True ( ? ) story about an East German Stasi agent who is so good at interrogation and observation that he's brought in to observe a well known writer and director , who is in theory above suspicion . As he begins to listen to the daily life of the writer and his girlfriend he finds that his life isn't what he thought it was . At times cold and clinical this is movie is at once the type of movie that draws you in and keeps you at a distance . You're drawn in because you want to see whats going on , you're kept at a distance because our central figure is , at first very icy . All that changes as things go on as we , and he gets to know not only the people he's watching , but also because we , and he learns that the reasons for his watching the couple are something less than political . This is a movie that sucks you up and takes you along for the ride . If there is a flaw , its that the film , even when it warms up , still remains oddly detached . I honestly can't argue with the win for best Foreign Language film at this years Oscars . A potential word of warning - this is a talky film at times . The result is that the subtitling can be a bit of a battle as too many words go by too fast . It happens three or four times in the film , as part of wordy exchanges . Its nothing damaging but you may want to wait for DVD where you an back it up and play the line again .
Huge , sprawling tale of the century	This is the story of two boys born on the same day in 1900 and how their lives move on from there . Its a typical story , one rich , one poor , with a large portion of the film taking place in Italy under Il Duce , but the handling of the film turns it into something more . The release version of this film is four hours long ( and a directors cut is even longer ) , but don't let that stop you . This film will hold your attention all the way to the end . I'm going to be honest and tell you outright that you probably won't be glued to your seat the whole time , its rare that any film of any length can hold you that tightly for its full running time , however you will want to stay with and and watch to the end even if you run off to the bathroom . Its not bad film making , its just the canvas is so big its hard to take in . I've seen this film several times now and I've enjoyed it each time I've watched it , which is more than I can say about most shorter films . See this film . Its four hours well spent . .
Pro or Con : A brilliant look at a family imploding	Knowing some of the parties involved in the actual case I was curious to see the film to see how they came across on the big screen . I was however reluctant to see it since the furor over who did what or who didn't or who's lying or not was clouding my perception of the film from the get go . I let time pass and finally sat down to watch the film once I thought things had calmed down . As a document of a family on the path to destruction I am floored by the film . This is a heart breaking exploration of how things are not what we think they are and how character flaws can and will wipe out the ones we love . ( Although I think Character flaws is the wrong term ) A great deal of the later half of the film dances around whether Jesse , the son who pleaded guilty to the charges , was really guilty . Its here I found the film to be slightly flawed because to me the film wants to have it both ways , him guilty and innocent . I think the film makers should have picked aside , since what they have done here seems less than subjective and fair ( to either side ) This is a tough film . If you can't handle frank sexual talk about child molestation then stay away . However , if you want to see an excellent film about a family in crisis then see this film . .
Great magical film that improves with each viewing and needs to be seen by anyone looking for a good film not just a good animated one	Tim is a little boy who is afraid of the dark , but loves the stars . Every night he drags his bed to the window so he can be watched over by his star . One night unable to sleep he climbs to the roof of the orphanage and looks out over the city and notices that the stars , including his star , are going out . In his frenzy to do something he falls off the roof , but is rescued by the Cat Shepherd . The Cat Shepherd is in charge of the cats that watch over all of the children and help put them to sleep at night . When Tim refuses to go to sleep The Cat Shepherd agrees to help Tim get to see the head of Nocturna the world of the night , who might be able to help him solve the problem of the missing stars . This in turn becomes a journey across the night world as Tim tries to find the source of the darkness . I've seen Nocturna twice in two days and while I really liked it after the first viewing I fell even more under its spell upon the second . This is quite simply a magical movie that improves with each viewing ( I'm planning yet another viewing in the next day or so ) . Trust me this is a great film . If you've ever wondered why your hair is messed up in the morning , or who makes the noises at night , or who steal your socks this movie is for you . As Tim goes through the night world he discovers the answers to these and other questions ( which are referenced through out the movie and seeing how they are is what makes the film so much fun on multiple viewings ) Its magic . Watching the film I was reminded of other films , Monsters Inc , Spirited Away , Moongirl , and a few others , but seconds after I thought that the film was like one thing I almost instantly realized that I was wrong , it maybe like these films for a moment , but in the end they are nothing like them , this is a film that creates its own unique world ( which is clearly evident in its design , music and witty dialog ) . This is a film that ultimately is a unique masterpiece . ( If nothing else the familiarity that flashes up makes the film more special in that it makes it easier to believe that what we see happening in the film is really what happens in our world after we fall asleep ) . This film needs to be seen , by anyone who wants to see a good movie - not just an animated film or a kids film - just a good film . It's special . Search this one out . And why doesn't this film appear to have a US distributor ? I had to see this as an imported region 2 DVD ( Which has a super English voice cast . ) This is an animated film that deserves to be seen as big as possible . I regret not seeing it at the New York Children's Film Festival when I had the chance because the thought of seeing Tim moving through the city on the big screen is just too amazing to contemplate ( It looks great on a big screen TV but on a big movie screen its probably even better ) .
Wonderful movie about a Nanny who helps put a family right	If you don't know where this movie is going at the outset , shame on you . Then again it makes no difference since this is just a great movie that makes you smile from ear to ear and then some . Set at the end of the 19th century the plot has a Cedrick Brown ( played by Colin Firth ) trying desperately to keep his children safe and a roof over their heads . Brown has hired as 17 nannies ( all driven away by his children ) since his wife died . He needs the nanny to help care and manage his brood while he tries to make a living and to find someone to get married to so his Aunt ( played by a frightening Angela Lansbury ) won't cut off the support payments . When no more nannies are to be found Brown listens to a mysterious voice that tells him to hire Nanny McPhee . She arrives just as the children begin a bad bout of bad behavior . McPhee ( played deliciously by screenwriter Emma Thompson ) looks horrific , with misshapen teeth , a uni-brow and numerous warts . She immediately sets to work teaching the children proper behavior , saying she stays when she is needed but not wanted and will only leave when she is wanted but not needed . To say that her methods are unconventional is putting it mildly . I love this movie . I stumbled upon it by accident and found that I was caught up in the movie in more ways than most Hollywood blockbusters have never managed to do . Whats great about this is that we have a bunch of great characters who all behave believably . The kids are real kids who are acting out because they miss there mom and because they've read one too many stories about bad step parents and nannies . They are not mean or vicious , as the housekeeper says repeatedly , they really are good kids . Compare their behavior and motivation to say the little monsters in " Are we There Yet ? ' who behave not only badly but evilly in order to keep anyone away from their mom , and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised at how unreal Hollywood portrays kids these days . This is a movie to treasure and keep and share with your kids and everyone else in your family . Its a nice sweet warm movie , thats oh so much better than you think its going to be . Sure it has some similarities to Mary Poppins and you can pretty much guess where its going , but who cares ? Its such a great ride getting there . A joy .
Probably the best film portrait of Hitler . Rewarding both first and later viewings	The best documentaries manage to do two things at the same time : First they teach those who don't know anything about a subject about that subject . At the same time they will enlighten those already knowledgeable on a subject in some way either with new information or a different point of view . The film Hitler A Career manages to do both . Made in 1977 in Germany I have yet to see a documentary on Hitler that is as good as this . Focusing on Hitler this film basically shows you who he was and why he did what he did . This is Hitler in his words and deeds with some very good narration tying it all together . Take for example the opening sequence of a speech Hitler gave when he came to power . Not only do we really get to see and hear a good portion of the speech but we are made very aware of how Hitler is speaking . The slow building nature of the oratory , the pauses , the hand gestures , its all laid out . I had read about how he gave a speech but until this film I never real saw how he did it . The film then moves on and put Hitler into the context of the time and himself . Its done in such away as to be filled with many " Ah Ha ! " moments . We don't see things that don't relate to the man , we just see the things that he did , influenced him and reacted to . Most films on Hitler try to show you some larger picture , this film doesn't , its presenting the man as a man and not a cypher or a personification of evil and the understanding you get is immeasurable . I've been studying the second world war all my life and its rare that I come across a film that makes me rethink what I already knew . Even better is the fact that as I learn more about the conflict as a whole , re-watching this film reveals new facets I never noticed before . I long ago taped this from the History Channel and re-watched it several times . I recently was given a copy on DVD and find that I'm again reviewing it and learning every time . In the thirty years since the film was made there have been way too many films on the Hitler and the Second World War , but I don't think that very many are this good . Certainly I haven't seen a biography of Hitler this good . If there are any flaws I'm certain that they would be due to history and historical research moving on while the film remains a time capsule . Highly recommended .
One of Greenaways best films	Peter Greenaway's story about Rembrandt and the painting of The Nightwatch . As a huge Greenaway fan I've been disappointed by most of Greenaways films over the last few years . Pillow Book , 8and a Half Women disappointed me . The Tulse Luper films are much better but too cerebral to fully connect to . In all honesty this is the most alive film and most " emotional " film Greenaway has made in 20 years , since Drowning by numbers . ( Greenaway makes films that are intentionally not going to make you feel , he wants to make you think ) . This is thanks to two things , first Greenaways best writing of his career . Here is a film where people interact like real people . They talk like real people , even when they break the fourth wall , they are living breathing characters . The other reason this works is because Martin Freeman ( Hot Fuzz and Shaun of the Dead ) is so good that he takes Greenaways lines and makes them real . he is of course aided and abetted by the rest of the cast , but ultimately this is a film about Freeman and he makes the most of it . I really liked this film . I put the import DVD in to check to see how it loaded up ( the menus and such are in Russian ) and before I knew what was happening I was 45 minutes into the film . The film is so easy to fall into , it unlike almost anything Greenaway has done before . Its also very complex and it was clear that I was missing things . Greenaway has managed to pack the film with ideas and details many of which you can't catch on the first go through , several times I realized I missed a reference or a line earlier on . . . a second viewing is probably a must . If you like Greenaway's films its a must see . Its also worth seeing if you like beautiful ( it all looks like paintings ) and complex films . One of the best of Greenaway's films .
Excellent portrait of a man trying to come back into society	If you don't want to or can't see a pedophile as anything other than a monster don't bother . Also don't bother if you can't deal with very frank discussions of various sex acts . If you can get past the subject this is a movie that will knock your socks off . Kevin Bacon is excellent as a man just out of prison who is trying to find a life in the real world , a world that hates him and the crime he committed . Bacon shows us the total conflict that is going on inside a man who did somethings and now is trying to put them behind him , while struggling with temptations anew . For the most part the script is free of a clichéd feeling , though there are a few bumps in the story that seems a tad contrived , as if they wanted to cover every possibility . But the flaws are minor thanks to a cast that is uniformly excellent from top to bottom . Kudos to everyone involved .
Depressing , but a must see	One of the great animated films of all time Grave of Fireflies tells the story of a couple of kids as the try to survive in war time Japan . What happens to them should be seen by anyone thinking of starting a war since it tells very graphically what happens to those often forgotten , the children . Like its companion piece , Barefoot Gen , which tells the story of survivors of atomic bombing and the horrors that were experienced by those unlucky enough not to have been killed out right , this film proves that war is hell for everyone , especially the children . Its very hard to send anyone out to see this unhappy little film ( The previously mentioned Barefoot Gen spawned sequels , this has not ) but at the same time you owe it to yourself to experience , however distantly what sort of monster we unleash upon the world every time we go to war . It helps that however depressing this is , its also a damn good and incredibly compelling story .
A mostly wonderful animated film that pushes the bounds of what can be done on film	This is a review of the English subtitled version of the film and not the English dubbed version A boys own adventure as our young hero fights to keep a steam ball out of the hands of evil corporate profiteers . Set in and around London in the late 1880's this is quite simply one of the most amazing animated films ever made . Odds are you have never seen anything like it on this scale . As Otomo Katsuhiro pushed the field of animation with his Akira some twenty years ago , he does it again with Steamboy his long in production masterpiece . This is a film so rich and detailed you simply can not truly believe that anyone would have taken the time to do the animation . This is a film to shame most animators working in the field who keep things simple . Nothing is simple here as we get grand battle scenes in London , chases through the English country side , and huge clockwork machines that are mind boggling in their visual complexity . It has to be seen to believed . The characters here all arc . No one is as they seem at first or second except perhaps for our hero , Roy , who tries desperately to do the right thing with the scientific marvels his father and grandfather have given him but instead finds no one is wholly good nor evil . There is a complexity to everyone that is uncommon for most animation , both Japanese and American . Its refreshing to see that we are given real people to root for and to hiss . What happens to them may move you to tears , it did me . The film is constructed in essentially two half's . The first is a rollicking adventure as Roy is thrust int the fight against the aforementioned evil corporation , which , like the characters is not as clearly evil as first seems . It his here that there are several set pieces that are some of the finest things I've ever seen on film , in particular the initial chase by the bad guys to get the steam ball . It starts in Roys home , which is trashed and then continues on steam powered vehicles across the countryside before ending up intersecting with a speeding train . Spielberg could learn a great deal for the next Indiana Jones movie . This first half is near perfect in execution . The second half of the film is a giant set piece that begins as a small scale fight during the London Exhibition and quickly expands into a full scale war in London . Its is here that the film falters , not because its bad , rather because its not fully clear whats happening . Its as if Otomo set in motion this huge machine and didn't know how to control it . I knew over all what was going on in the big picture but I was lost as to the details . This is a damaging flaw to the film that destroys many people ability to enjoy the film . If you can let yourself go and let the film wash over you then you will be more likely to truly appreciate this film for what it is - grand story telling on a huge scale . I can't recommend this film enough . Certainly one of the best animated films ever made , I'm sure it will be near the top of my best films of the year . Lastly Stay through the credits . If its not readily apparent the pictures under the credits take the story well past the ending of the film and show you quite clearly what happens to everyone we've come to know . One can only hope that we will one day be treated with the story those pictures tell .
Super Dread	With the release of the first theatrical film in the US hours away I decided to go back and start at the beginning of what spawned four films in Japan and a soon to be released American version . This is less a haunted house story than a ghost story with something extra . The less you know the better , but perhaps saying that this is about an evil that flows outward from a terrible crime . Its told out of order , which in its way is tricky thing to do since here it requires that you give yourself over to it and stay with it on the journey its making . As I watched the early parts of the film I was uncertain about what I was seeing . It was good but I was almost ready to give up , except there was something gnawing at me to stay the course . I'm glad I did . This is a film of slowly building dread and unease more than jump out of your seat scares . You leave the film not feeling right with the tension all up and down your back . I didn't want people to go upstairs , into rooms , or follow the trail of blood because I knew what was there , and it was horrible . . . . . . well horrible in idea . The trouble is that because this was shot on the cheap some of the effects aren't that good . I'd like to describe them but I'll let you find out . Thankfully they don't ruin what is a truly creepy movie . Frankly I'm terrified to see what the other movies bring . .
Western / comedy / musical / scifi / horror / monster movie is infinitely better than it should be and is fun film that should be seen asap	A must see movie for anyone who loves 1950's style scifi , Mexican movies or movies that are in their own little universe . This is a Mexican scifi / monster / western / musical / comedy / horror film . It concerns a space ship piloted by two women ( think Cat Women of the Moon or Queen of Outer Space ) who land on earth with a ship of monsters . They get mixed up with a Mexican cowboy who's prone to song and who falls in love with one of the women . As you can guess the monsters get loose and pandemonium ensues . Wow , wow and wow . This is a fun film that is NOT a so good its bad film , its just a fun little movie that is very good on its own terms . Its clear that everyone knows that what they are doing is silly but they play it straight anyway and seem to be having a good time . Being a monster junkie I was in heaven . Not only is there a great looking robot , but a strange talking skeleton , a weird little guy with a brain like head , a furry guy with long arms . a giant monster of some sort , a vampire and something else . Its a a wonderful assortment of monsters of the clearly men in suit variety . You'll laugh at them and probably find them charmingly hokey . I really loved this film . Its a for me for the simple reason that I had to see this with out any English translation . Somehow I think that had I seen this in English this would have been even better since from the few words I could grasp it seemed to strike the right balance between serious and silly . If you get the chance see this movie , its just a lot of fun and it will make you feel good .
See this in English	This is the rare bird thats better in English . I had picked up an import copy of this film prior to the English Disney release and was stunned at how much I didn't like it . Thinking I was mad after all the hype I watched the film seven times in the next seven days and was underwhelmed each time . When the John Lasseter supervised dub was finally released to theaters I went more to show support than out of desire to see the film again . Seeing the film in English was a revelation . Even for some one who has watched thousands of anime in Japanese I had to admit that the tiny little touches that were added made the film better and more understandable on an emotional level . This is a great film for everyone , but if English is your first language see it in English its so much better .
1970's style film redone in the 1990's is a great little lost gem	I stumbled upon this film completely by accident . I had ordered the Japanese film Dark Water and was sent this instead . The retailer told me to keep the film in order to make up for their error . It was a weird thing to have happen , and I figured it must be some cosmic sign , so I sat down to watch it having zero idea what it was about . The plot of this film has a young woman going to a desolate monastery / nunnery in order to find out why her recently deceased father had been supporting it for years . Once there things are far from " normal " and there are many hidden dark secrets , not all of them are particularly healthy for our heroine . This film really knocked my socks off . This is a movie that reminded me of many of the Euro-horrors of the 1970's and early 1980's . You have weird cults , young women , murder , mayhem and monsters . There is a weird tension that comes from everything being ever so slightly off center . You can't help but feel uneasy since you don't know how weird things are going to get nor do you know who is going to end up dead . ( SPOILER AHEAD ) The only real problem is that even though the movie creates a very real claustrophobic world of religious oppression , with real characters , the film completely falls down in the last minutes when we see the " demon " that has been lurking around , at that point things go right into the toilet . How do I say this ? Its worse than a man in a suit . it simply a rubber nightmare that almost completely ruins everything that has gone before . Simply put its on the list of really bad monster costumes . ( Think about what happened at the end of the Conan the Destroyer ) If you can get past the bad monster and just take the movie for what its trying to do , then you'll enjoy the movie , if you need a perfection you'll love it up to a point and hate the ending .
Magic and mystery in a neat little thriller	Edmund Lowe plays the magician Chartrand . During a performance of his show the lights in the theater go out and a man is shot . The police are called . Chartrand must use his tricks in order to find the real killer and not the suspect that the police have chosen . Forgive me for being a bit vague , but there are one or two twists that giving a more detailed ploy description would give away , and in a film like this half the fun is just having the film happen before you . The film is pretty much set entirely in the theater during and immediately following the performance . Its a hoot as the film moves between the police , Chartrand and his crew and the audience , who are both chopping at the bit to go home and wanting to know what really happened . To be certain there are a couple of logic problems if you take a moment to think about things , but I'm guessing that for most of this 59 minute gem you're going to be simply too carried along by whats going on screen to think ( it as after all a cinematic magic trick ) . Simply put this film is a fun ride and one of the most enjoyable mysteries I've seen . This is one to search out .
The trouble with old comrades	Keenan Wynn shows up on the door of several of his old army buddies promising a fortune in lost Nazi gold if only they join him to get it . Crazy as it might sound they join up and before long they are hip deep in intrigue . This is a well acted story of post war greed that doesn't want to be anything other than an entertaining evening . There are plot twists and a traitor in their midst and if you put your mind to it you might be able to figure things out , but its so much fun just watching whats going on on screen that it really isn't worth the effort . If you come across this film take the time to watch it since its 90 minutes well spent .
Interesting meditation of art , pleasure and life	I had been haunted by an image in Phil Hardy's Overlook Encyclopedia of Horror of the two leads in orgasmic contact . The description of the film made me wonder what sort of sick twisted film this was . Twenty years later the film came out on DVD and I picked up a copy . The plot , such as it is , concerns a blind man who kidnaps a model and holds her against her will . What happens next would be telling , as the three characters , the blind man's mother is his accomplice , interact in ways that are both surreal and primal . Even if you know what happens , you still can't be prepared for what happens . This is NOT for every taste . The psycho-sexual twists and turns may be not some peoples cup of tea . Even the blood , which by todays standards isn't much , kicks you in the head . No , its no perfect . The film is a bit too long , but its a trip and a half for those willing to take it on its terms . Recommended
Beyond mindless	If you want to see a hysterical but incredibly mindless film this is it . The plot has to do with a gang of thieves dressed as Santa pulling off a string of robberies . Its up to a klutzy cop and a taxi driver to stop them . The plot here is just an excuse for a series of very funny set pieces , the drug store scene in which the taxi driver tries to find out what a pregnancy tester is had me on the floor . Forget the plot , not only will you be way way way ahead of everyone on screen it ceases to make any sense two thirds of the way in . Still the film remains fall down funny to the end .
Visually Revolutionary , Even if the Plot is Murky	On the surface this is the story of an investigation of sex bots that kill , in reality this is an examination of what it means to be alive and to experience the world . Its a head trip . I'm finding it hard to express what I feel about this film . Visually this film pushes animation and visual story telling to new places . I know that some of the look of this film can be found in video games but never has the current state of art on many levels been brought together to rattle , nay destroy , the cage of the status quo . Much of this film had my jaw hanging open , often with tears welling up at the beauty of the imagery . This film rocks and then some . The computer generated worlds of Immortel and Sky Captain are blown away by the magic worked here . The plot is too murky . Frankly , I was lost half way into the movie as to what the plot was , however I was seriously getting off on the visuals and most of all the ideas that were being batted about . How do we know whats real and what isn't ? This film makes it very clear that we can never know , nor can we know what it is to be alive . Certainly not all of it works but enough does , and all I can say is wow . I have no idea how to adequately rate this film . I'm sure some people will find it form over substance and others will think little of the visuals . Me they rocked my world and I gave it a , but I'll add that your mileage may vary .
If you're ready for a truly disturbing ( and thought provoking ) experience this film is for you .	Lost and alone , hiding from her ex-con husband , Ashley Judd spends her time in a run down motel working and partying . When she meets a shy withdrawn man who seems nice she ends up drawn into his world and the insanity that lives there , a world filled with tiny bugs . A wonderfully acted trip down the road to hell this is a movie that is a true horror film . There are no monsters or serial killers just a trip into the minds of two people who bond and feed off each other . Brutal and graphically violent at times , this is more disturbing for what it says about the need for people to belong and the willingness to believe in order to do so . She needs his kindness and he needs some one to believe him . Together they mesh perfectly in a yin and yang circle of destruction . Whats scary here is that as the film progresses we begin to go along with the idea of the existence of tiny bugs . We as outsiders know that the bugs don't exist , but we are sucked along with the characters as their mania is allowed to run rampant and as things go on we begin to believe , perhaps fleetingly that maybe there is something to the story . Its a frightening thought that anyone could lose themselves in a situation like this , but it happens every day , one need only look at the news to see people living in personal little hells . I was left disturbed for days after viewing this movie . Its not for most people , but those who want to be challenged on most levels should search this film out , it will rock your world .
A really good representation of the manga , though I think it would help if you know the manga to see the film .	Yuko is hired by the owner of a home who can not get get into the house she owns . So with Watanuki and Doumeki in tow she goes to visit the house where several collectors are staying for their mysterious host to appear so that they can add to their collections . This is a very strange tale that slowly builds as it goes on as things are found not to be the way they appear and it all to be operating with some form of Dream logic . Mixing a variety of styles in animation this is a visually beautiful program that captures the some of the themes nicely while remaining true to the look and feel of the Clamp art work that is its source . The story slowly builds a sense of dread that remains through out even if you can guess some of what is going on . In its way it manages to be creepier than the manga ever was . The only real flaw is that there is no character development . There is an assumption that you'll know who the characters are and what their relationship to each other is . The need to know stuff coming in is especially true with Doumeki , who is a rival for the affections of a young girl with Watanuki , but is also a friend and priest with mystical abilities , something that is not revealed until a good ways into the manga story line . I really liked this movie a great deal . Its probably better as a horror film than as a perfect representation of the manga , but as comic to film transfers go its pretty good . Definitely worth seeing if you're a fan of the manga or Clamp or anime . ALso worth a shot if you like good thrillers of any sort . FYI - This series runs parallel to Clamp's Tsubasa Chronicle , and a cross over to that TV series can be seen towards the close of the film where Yuko is helps someone far away .
Must see documentary about the martial arts genre	This is an over view of martial arts film history . It takes us from 1940's to the 1990's when the film was made . It has clips from all periods as well as interviews with many of the actors and directors that have worked in the genre . It is quite simply a must see for anyone who is interested in the genre or the history of film . Certainly its far from complete , the director did not interview everyone ( Jackie Chan is not interviewed but is seen in a good deal of footage ) and the film's use of clips is limited to what we'd now consider bargain basement films ( early Jackie Chan , anything in public domain , no major films like those of Bruce Lee , and though there are interviews with Steve James and Menahem Golan there is no footage from any of the Canon ninja films ) . Minor flaws aside , you will not do better than this film for an over view of the history of martial arts films . I have yet to run across a film that so neatly wraps everything up . ( IFC recently did a one hour program called Cinema Hong Kong : Kung Fu which is very good , and brings everything up to date but is much too short - Ideally that film and this would probably tell you everything you need or want to know about the genre ) . This is the real deal . ( Do keep in mind that things have changed since this film was made in particular with the collapse of the Hong Kong film industry , which is touted here as massive an thriving )
Brilliant film adaption	Three hour film version of the recent stage production of Shakespeare's play starring Ian McKellen as Lear is a good representation of a great stage production . I saw this cast when they came to New York for a sold out run at The Brooklyn Academy of Music . To be honest I went for McKellen and not the play , which always seemed to elude me . However it wasn't long after the play started that I fell into it and for the first time truly understood what the Bard was getting at . Watching the cast on stage was like watching lightning . It was magical . This production is probably as good a filmed representation of the show as we are likely to get . Stripped of the intermission and breaks for scene changes this play moves like the wind . While remaining theatrical , the show has been opened up with the addition of some sets and backdrops that bring the play closer to a real world setting . I'm not sure that it always works since it pulled me out of the play and the dark shadowy world of the castles where much of the play happens . The performances are wonderful , with McKellen giving a stellar performance . I've seen several Lears and there is always a danger of doing something slightly wrong ( Christopher Plummer's Lear started off insane and had nowhere to go ) McKellen keeps the pitch right and we watch as the old fool totters into madness and beyond . Equally good is Sylvester McCoy as the Fool . Best known as the last Dr Who before the recent restart , his performance is a revelation as he makes you laugh while he breaks your heart . Its a revelation for those of us who never saw his stage work only his Doctor and the odd TV appearance . One of the best Shakespeare adaptations to come down the pike it is a version that demands to be seen . Its a wonderful . If I have any reservations its that the film is not the play . This is not to knock the film , only that there is a magic in live theater that can't be captured , especially when the camera focuses your attention ( one of the joys of the production on stage was the way things happened away from the central focus-things now lost as we are forced to look where director Trevor Nunn wants us to . ) Again this is not to degrade this excellent production , its only to state that I think I would have liked this much more had I not seen the production in its original form . ( Though to be honest I've seen this adaption a couple of times now and its gotten better with each viewing ) When PBS , or whom ever , ( it's a co production between Channel Four in England , WNET in New York and Nippon Television ) runs this see it .
Lost Treasure	I am probably one of the six people who saw this on its first theatrical run in the US . Because of a complicated and ultimately stupid legal battle between distributors involving this and other films this film got so lost that the only promotional material available to the theater I saw it in was a picture from a newspaper , which they pasted into a much too big poster holder . To add insult to injury despite getting raves from the New York papers , all of which wondered why the distributor was dumping a wonderful " children's " film , a new distributor , Disney released it on video after changing its name to tie into their amusement park ride , there by confusing those of us who saw this as the Wind in the Willows . This film is a great film . Its simply a fantastic film comedy , never mind the stupid label of children's or family film , this is just great movie making . The only people I know who are disappointed in it are people expecting a Monty Python film . Although it pretty much reunites all of the surviving Pythons only Jones and Eric Idle are in it for any length of time , Cleese has one scene as a lawyer and Palin is fleetingly seen as the sun . The film is light years from Python , despite having just a touch of Python's madness . The humor is gentle and loving and keeping both with the period and with modern tastes . The songs are wonderful . Granted the story is changed to deal with the dangers of crass commercialism , the weasels want to turn Toad Hall into a factory , but having seen several version of the story told with people in costume , this is only one of two versions that has ever worked , and this one did it in half the time of the other . This is a film that will make everyone feel good and which despite the PG rating is great for everyone .
Witty	Three American campaign advisers go to Russia to help Yeltsin win the election and a good time was had by viewers . This is the true story of three guys who went to Moscow to win an election and did so despite death threats ( from the people who wanted Yeltsin elected but feared he'd lose - don't ask ) and being watched by everyone in the country and outside it . The real pleasure here is the trio of actors playing the leads , Jeff Goldblum , Anthony LaPaglia and Liev Schreiber who work together like a well oiled machine and seem to be having such a grand time you can't help but watch it and enjoy it . They play it like three long time friends who know each other like the back of their own hands and spread the sense of fun and good times , even in the bad times , so neatly it rolls right off the screen . You don't care what the film is about so long as you get to watch them interacting . This would be a perfectly charming film if it was more interesting to look at , its mostly in hotel rooms that all look the same , with the odd trip to the balcony to speak where no one can over hear . They could also have used a woman as Yeltsin's daughter who is a lovely as the real thing , but those minor quibbles . That said its a joy to behold and highly recommended .
Masterpiece	The film is a MASTERPIECE . I still don't know what I think of it but I think its a masterpiece . Its been ages since I've seen the Tarkovsky film , not since it came on tape had I watched it from start to finish . I have the DVD but the last time I actually tried to watch it was on IFC when sunspots were messing up reception . I gave up when the picture kept skewing . Regardless of when I saw the first film it has haunted me ever since , its mediations on memory and going home again have stayed with me since I saw the film some ten or fifteen years ago . I'm so haunted by the film I was curious what Soderbergh and Cameron would do with the film . The plot essentially is the same as the first film , which is such a stripped down version of the novel by Stanislaw Lem that he all but disowned it . Actually the film follows reasonably closely Tarkovsky's film for the first 35 or 40 minutes before adding new bumps to the story that spin it off into new directions . What the film is about is a meditation on love and god and existence and other stuff . Its an equally valid take on the story as Tarkovsky's and equally intriguing . Of course the film bombed - with the people involved people in America wanted action . But there is none , or little . There is more alluded to than in the first film , but basically this is 95 minutes of people talking and brooding and emoting and simply being and trying to come to terms with life . There is no car chase or shoot outs or anything other than a planet , two spaceships and people . This is a film that requires an investment on the part of the audience and if you can't or won't work with it and meet it half way you're going to think its awful . Yes its pretentious twaddle but it still is asking some very interesting questions and providing no answers . I can only imagine what people going in expecting a scifi thriller made of this film which is like the best scifi not really about the sci or the fi but about us here and now . Soderbergh and Cameron had ideas they wanted to explore , ideas which simply could not work in a realistic setting and so grafted them into a scifi story which would allow their ideas to grow . No the film is not perfect . There are bumps and jumps and oddities , at least I think their are since I saw this in three parts broken by two interruptions . But flaws or no the ideas flow through . If you can see the film letterboxed the compositions are very deliberate and balanced . Also see if you can see it with a good sound system because the sound , the music mostly creates and excellent mood and audioscape . Go in clear minded and know that you may have to see it a second or third time simply because its similarities to the first film are at times distracting since you lean towards one way while the movie goes the other . What is the plot , I hear you asking . . . Kris Kelvin goes to a space station around the planet Solaris to investigate strange happenings there . Things become even more complicated when his dead wife shows up . Its really not much more than that . I could tell you the whole plot , and even then it wouldn't make a damn bit of difference since the plot is incidental to the discussions . Forgive me I'm still pondering this film over an hour after the fact . . . If you love to think or question see the film . If you love films with out any answers see the film . If you want it all explained , then stay away , this is not for you . The same thing if you want a film that is more than talk . If you are adventurous and open see this movie . . . .
A relationship of a life time	I first saw this when I was a kid on its first US release back in the early 1970's . I laughed to kill myself and thought it was one of the funniest things I had ever seen . The quest to see the movie again over the last 30 years has been a labor of love . I don't think it ever aired on New York TV and its showings on cable can be counted on one hand . I was lucky enough to see it a a local revival theater a few years ago before it completely disappeared . Thanks to E-Bay I recently picked up a VHS copy and now comes word that a US release on DVD is moments away . Life couldn't be better . The one thing the handful of viewings of the film has taught me is that the movie plays differently every time I see it . Depending on mood it I may find it to be one of the funniest or one of the most charming films movies ever made . Some sequences in one viewing will leave me gasping for breath while other times it will simply make me smile . No matter though I've enjoyed it each time I've watched it . The story of a bigot who gets way laid and ends up on the run all over France only to end up posing as a beloved Rabbi , is ripe with comic potential most of which is put to good use . Also put to good use are some twists that no rational person would come up with , but which work in the context of a wild comedy , the bubble gum factory for example . This is a wonderful life affirming story that makes you laugh until you cry while showing that ultimately we are all the same . Which is kind of tragic in view of the films opening shots which are some of the earliest film footage shot at the World Trade Center , which had just opened . If you like to laugh see this movie , its wonderful .
Seen in his full glory ( and not the BBC America version ) Monster is 90 minutes of laughter and lines you'll be quoting for years to come .	Never having seen Dylan Moran perform live I had the misfortune of going to see a taping of Monster for BBC America . The taping was short confused and felt like the series of punchlines to longer jokes . Walking out of the taping with some friends we figured that there had to be some reason that Moran had a hit TV show and sold out concerts around the world , some reason we were missing . When the show finally aired on TV it was further cut down to fit in an hour time slot with commercials and comedy inserts . As luck would have it I saw that Amazon UK was selling a version of Monster that ran twice the length of what I had seen at the taping . Curious , I picked it up . Taped in Dublin prior to the BBC America show , the difference was night and day . Dylan Moran in his full on glory is a very funny man . No one and nothing is sacred as he dismantles everything from religion , to children , to drinking , to hair , to your full potential , to god knows what . Moran has a problem with everything and he's going to tell you about it in a very funny manner . Seeing Moran speed down the tracks building up more and more steam as he goes is one of the great pleasures I've had in a long time . Think of him as a slightly inebriated combination of Eddie Izzard and George Carlin ( but with out the black world view and the cross dressing ) as filtered through an Irish sensibility . Its a unique view that we should all be exposed to as often as possible . If you can get you hands on a copy of the show , do so . Its something you'll be watching and quoting for years to come . Trust me
Masterpiece of Cinema	Say what you will , this film is impressive on just about every level . The only minor flaw , and one thats just annoying me right now so I'm at instead of , is the pacing is just a tiny bit slow . But it will pass as I come to realize what a mistake that was . The plot is simple , a man named Nameless presents to the Emperor the weapons of his three greatest foes , he then recounts how he obtained them . The visual style of this film puts most epics to shame , regardless of their origin . Since most of the film consists of stories the wire work and flashy action and vivid style only enhance what were are seeing and simply are the way things are . How do you describe this film ? You don't you simply hold it out to people and tell them to see it - more so if they like Crouching Tiger since this does what that does but in new ways . Simply one of the greatest films ever made . . . even if I'm rating it right now as . SEE THIS . Though lets hope that Miramax doesn't completely ruin it now that they are calling it Jet Li's Hero and have trimmed three minutes from it .
Wonderful film is more like reading a really good meaty book that you want to curl up with and lose yourself in	Okay we applauded at the end and I got teary at times . I have no idea when I last saw an animated film this complex made in the US . I mean that in a good way . I also have to wonder when was the last time I saw a real meaty fairy tale on screen , Strings perhaps ( oh what a great double feature that will be ) How the heck do I explain this simply ? I have no idea . Perhaps by saying this is the story of a mouse named Despereaux who isn't afraid of anything , who reads the stories of a knights and chivalry and takes an oath to be a gentlemen , who helps a princess trapped in a castle and a kingdom caught in gloom . One of the most beautiful animated films , possibly the best looking computer animated film yet with a lush scheme that makes it look like various paintings by people like Vermeer . At other times this is the equivalent of book illustrations come to life . As good as the trailers look the film itself is even better . If you love art ( both fine and animated , see this film since the film references numerous works . For the most part this is a beautifully adapted film that is like curling up with a good book . Where recent films like City of Ember or Twilight or even the Harry Potter films have links to their source novels that make them less then stand alone movies , this film takes the book and puts it on the screen and doesn't dumb it down or make it so you need to have read the book . You have real fleshed out characters of surprising complexity ( What is a character like Dustin Hoffman's doing in a film that is " for children ? " I don't care frankly because its wonderful ) . These are not one note sketches but living breathing people . It doesn't rush things , this is a film that takes its time telling the story and requires you actually pay attention . Despereaux doesn't show up for at least fifteen minutes as we get a long run up of why things are the way they are . Its wonderful since it beautifully lays out the world we are walking through . Its a real fairy tale movie that is much more complex than anything that Disney has been churning out , or even Pixar with the film juggling several story lines - Despereaux , Roscuro ( Hoffman ) , the maid , the Princess - all at the same time all seeming to get an equal amount of weight to their telling . It wonderful . Unfortunately the film has one flaw that keeps it from being perfect . ( This is a POTENTIAL SPOILER so you may not want to read this bit ) There is a moment or two after the meeting of Roscuro and the Princess when the climax of the film is set in motion when it felt like something was left out . How does all of the villainy transpire ? Its not fully clear and on some level I couldn't completely go with it to the next level . Its like coming to a canyon and you have to bridge it , but you suddenly find yourself on the other side without knowing how you got there . its the sort of thing that made the almost film closer to . ( END OF SPOILER ) Yes I really liked it . Yes I think you should see it , especially if you like really good fairy tales or stories that are not simple or simplistic . Its a wonderful movie .
Hong Kong animated film manages to be both for kids and adults as well as being one of the best movies of any sort in many years	Hong Kong animated film that concerns the reflections of an older McDull , seen here as a pig , back on his life as a five or six year old . Its a combination of live action , 2D and 3D animation that could only have come out of Hong Kong . Beginning with the birth of McDull this film then jumps to his arrival in school and then goes from there . McDull and his mom seem to be taking on the world alone and we see how she struggles to raise her son and get by as McDull is seen to be both unaware of the poverty that he was living in ( as the child ) and yet as the adult he's keenly aware that his mom was doing the best she could to raise him as a single parent . It manages to both captures the bliss of the innocence of being a child as well as the melancholy of how the knowing adult looking at the same situation would see it . It warms and breaks your heart at the same time . Absolutely a great film the films one real flaw is that its a bit too disjointed . The pieces don't always fit together or lead into each other in such away as to make a unified whole . I was hoping that in the end it would all come together and while it didn't quite the final piece manages to wrap it all up nicely . Largely unavailable outside of Asia this film really needs to be seen elsewhere in the world . I understand why the film hasn't been seen in the US since its " manage to have it both childlike and adult " style would be off putting to a studio who wouldn't know how to market it . But considering that the film spawned a sequel , Karaoke discs , a toy line , and more in Asia one would think that this is truly a movie for everyone ( its mix of adult and kids humor makes it almost a movie one could grow up with ) If you love great movies see this film .
Great Popcorn action film , is one of the great guilty pleasures of all time .	I love this movie . I've seen it I don't know how many times since its release and I never seem to get tired of it . The plot is simple . Frank is man who will transport anything anywhere so long as you follow his rules . For Frank the rules are what keeps him safe and out of trouble . Of course Frank breaks one of the rules and he suddenly find himself on the run with a girl in tow with police and the bad guys on his tail . This film has great characters who say very funny things , the exchanges between Frank and the police officer name Taconi is wonderfully funny and knowing . It has incredible action the likes of which you've probably never seen , the opening chase is one of the best ever put on film , and o course the battle in the oil . Its a wonderful film that completely falls apart dramatically in the second half . Once Frank and the girl come face to face with the two bad guys , the film ceases to make logical sense . Whats going on ( apparently a plot to smuggle Chinese into France , though its not really clear ) is less important than getting Frank to the next action scene . Whats so troubling is that even after 30 or 40 viewings it feels like the film makers never had a clear direction past a certain point in the story . Its not fatal , but it is annoying . Plot collapse or no , this is a great film that really should be seen . Its just two hours of good fun , and great times . ( Besides it sets you up for the sequel , which in many ways is better than this , even though it too has plot problems )
The search for love , identity and place in a Tokyo bar is a one of the great " unknown " films of cinema	Eddie is a transvestite hostess at one of Tokyo's clubs . He / she spends her time working , being in the films of a friend , taking drugs and trying to find love . Said to be one of Stanley Kubrick's favorite films and a big influence on Clockwork Orange this is probably one of the best films most people have never seen . Released in 1969 this film is as fresh and shattering as it must have been back when it was made . Set in a " Gay " world this is actually a movie about people and how they act and feel , the fact that they are gay is irrelevant . These are real people in a real world that seems to be happening now instead of when it was made ( due no doubt to the stunning black and white photography ) . The film uses just about every 1960 " art film " technique you can think of and does so better than any film in from Europe ever did ( Buñuel , and Bergman should have been this successful ) . Interviews of the cast , sudden juxtaposition of scenes , shifts in tone and style , sudden bursts of violence , all blend together to tell a story of a search for identity and place that is in its way universal , even if its outcome is not . This is a movie that is simple to explain , but difficult to sum up . The effect of it being somewhat greater than the simplicity of the storyline . See this movie . This is one of those movies that movie lovers should search out . ( Because to be honest I'm not sure if I'm more in love with the technique or the film itself - though either way its a great film )
Low Key Gem	Three seniors , bored with just sitting on a bench decide to rob a bank . What happens is probably a sweetened version of what might happen if it were to really happen , or would have back when this movie was made . This is probably George Burns , Art Carney and Lee Strasberg's shining moment on film . The acting of the three leads is perfect and conveys the boredom of life before the robbery , the excitement of the robbery and the confusion of the fall out . Why aren't more movies like this being made ? This is not a comedy . Yes its funny but there is a dark side to the film concerning not only the fall out of the robbery but also what it means to be old in America . This is a low key , off beat gem of a film that hooks me every time I run across it on TV . Its wonderful and though everything doesn't go right , its uplifting in its way simply because we get to see real old people trying to get by and not Hollywood's version of them . See this movie .
Owing more to film noir than horror films this is a great B-movie that deserves to sought out for a great night at the movies	( This review is for the theatrical cut ) Rise : Blood Hunter hit me like a ball out of left field . The film concerns a reporter , played by Lucy Liu who runs a foul of a group of vampires who kill her for her troubles . Regrettably the vampires botch the job and Liu comes back with a driving thirst for vengeance . Three parts noir and one part supernatural thriller this is the sort of grind house film that belonged in the recent " Grind House " double feature . Moving with a speed and an economy of motion this is a film thats rare to day anywhere , especially Hollywood . The film bleeds off the screen and you get a sense that this could be happening somewhere real . The story is as tight as a drum with nary a extraneous line or motion , this is a movie that tells its simple story and it tells it well . There are things which it could tell us , or show us , but it chooses not to since that would get away of the story ( the alchemist for example ) . There is blood and violence but its always perfectly done for the right effect . The supporting cast is mostly note perfect including Mako , Robert Forrester and Michael Chiklas . While the film has its flaws ( Liu is a bit stiff at the start ) the film actually turns out to be a perfectly made B-movie of the sort that hasn't been seen on screens in decades . Taken for what it is the film will probably stand the test of time and repeated viewings to become a minor classic of its type .
Action packed story of a man fighting to free Indonesia from colonial rule is pure fun of the highest order	The star of this Indonesian film Barry Prima is on record as hating every film he ever made , complaining that they are all trash . That maybe so but for the most part they are entertaining trash . This film is exactly that , entertaining trash of the highest order . This is the first of a series of films with Prima as Jaka Sembung , a hero known as the Warrior . Sembung is an Indonesian native who fights against the colonial Indonesian government for the freedom of his people . He is a real pain and as the movie opens he has been captured by the authorities . Instead of killing him they send him off to work in the quarry breaking rocks . His captivity doesn't last long and he's soon back leading the forces of rebellion . The government is desperate and is reduced to hiring great warriors to try and capture and kill Sembung . Eventually they are further reduced to having a powerful voodoo priest resurrected for the task . I really like this movie a great deal , its just 90 minutes of action and magic and the perfect thing to unwind with after a long day at work since it requires very little from the view except acceptance . This is the type of movie that popcorn was invented for . Certainly by no means a well made movie ( the fights occasionally appear staged and the make up is low grade ) that makes up for pretty much all its short comings in its go for broke , through everything in but the kitchen sink attitude . This movie just keeps piling on the complications as it goes along and if you tune into its wave length there is nothing better . ( I even didn't mind its " " Rah Rah ! Go Indonesia attitude " which was used to inspire pride in native Indonesian audiences , but to my eyes at least showed a seriousness of cause lacking in most action films ) A word of warning . Despite the films lesser make up effects this is still a bloody movie . Lots of people are shot and killed , there are decapitations , eye gouging , people are graphically crucified and lots of blood flows . Its gruesome . Still if you can get past the blood its a fun movie . ( minus one because its slows a bit in the middle for exposition ) . Worth a couple of bags of popcorn and several glasses of soda .
Either except it as a cheesy romp and love it or take it seriously and hate it	This movie is in constant rotation on SciFi and its another one of those movies that I stop at each time its on . The plot has badly done giant mosquitoes attacking people in the country side . They have been mutated after feeding on the blood of dead aliens . . . I know you're shocked , you were expecting a high class movie ( even with the title Mosquito ) and instead you got a very silly movie played ( reasonably ) straight by everyone involved . Clearly the cast and crew knew this was a silly idea , but they milk it for all its worth turning the attack scenes into something you both wince at ( for the idea of it ) and groan at ( the silliness of the execution ) . This is one of the rare modern attempts at a drive in movie that walks the fine line between being serious and being mocking to create something thats enjoyable despite the dumbness of it all . If you can take it on its own level its worth two bags of popcorn and a couple of sodas . If you can't take it for what it it is then you're in for a long painful viewing experience . on the brain dead fun-o-meter .
A excellent erotic drama thats both compelling and on a human level and sexy	Its rare that movies with a sexual component are both interesting on the human level and interesting on the sexual level . Most directors seem to crank out indifferent stories that are merely excuses for bad soft core sex . Scorpio Nights on the other hand is completely different it has hot encounters and more importantly people you care about . Set in an apartment house in Manila where no one has any real privacy . The rooms are small and the construction is such that you can often see into your neighbors homes . A young tenant notices the activities of his down stairs neighbors through a hole in the floor . Smitten he watches the nightly routine of the husband coming home , eating dinner and then crawling into bed with his sleeping wife . It isn't long before he's managed to work his way into the heart of the woman below and started a torrid affair . Well done across the board this is the type of story that could have been over done , instead its all played very real ( In an interview the director said that he's been stopped by many people over the years who said that he manged to get the details of their affair right ) Truth be told as steamy as the sex is the really erotic moments are the ones either before the sex or the ones where sex isn't possible . There's a moment where the woman looks up at the ceiling with desire , yearning for her lover , he sees this and pushes his fingers through the holes in the boards . She then reaches for his fingers with an almost unearthly hunger . . . so he opens up a small door in the floor and extends his arm . . . Who needs graphic sex ? Best of all its not sexy because its sex , its sexy because its two real characters who we know and understand . These are two characters who could be us so we're compelled to continue watching . Actually the strength of Scorpio Nights is the interaction of the characters , they are real people with real problems and desires . The story is driven by them instead of driving them . Excellent . . Lets hope that some one is smart enough to get a really good edition of this out on DVD in English .
Chiling connecting of the dots story about the possible birth of AIDS	This is a careful step by step look at the probability that AIDS started as a disease in chimps and crossed over man in polio vaccine in the late 1950's in Africa . It begins with a story in Rolling Stone back in the late 80's or early 90's that was crucified in the scientific community not because it wasn't possible , rather because it named the wrong monkeys used and attacked a pillar of the research community and then moves on from there to later investigations on the subject which show very clearly that the race to cure polio may have made us the target of something worse . Using the words of those involved as well as the papers and documentary films from the time this is a chilling look at how science can go really wrong and how scientists will circle the wagons to protect one of their own , even in the face of evidence that something is afoot . I like the calm and unsensational connecting of the dots that is used to lay out the case keeping everything on a level playing field , even at the end where the film makers say flat out that short of ever coming upon a sample of the drug from that time we will never know if this is a source of the HIV / AIDS virus . However there is enough circumstantial evidence to make you reasonably sure that they have gotten things right . ( an interesting note is the quoted exchange of letters between competing scientists where one warns that the other that his vaccine appears to be contaminated with an unknown and here to fore never seen before virus , a warning that was completely dismissed ) . See this movie since it will open your mind .
One of the best serials ever made and one of my all time favorites	For me this is one of the best serials Republic ever put out . It's a grand wartime serial about a group of insurance investigators , one of which is the masked marvel , battling the evil Sakima . Sakima is in cahoots with the head of the insurance company the men work for and he is giving enemy agents info on which targets to pick . Its got great action , wicked dialog and pacing that just won't quit . For me it's the point at which Republic hit their prime with balancing a fast pace with its tendency to have plots that are little more then fleshed out Cliff Notes . To be certain there are other Republic serials that may be better or more detailed or have better action , but this is the one serial where what would be the studios plan for how to make mass produced serials all came together to make something special . Where other similar serials are too plot heavy ( Captain Marvel ) or too action oriented ( Spy Smasher ) this just balances it all together for great effect . One of the best . Look for this one . ( Interesting footnote , Tom Steele the stunt man who plays the Marvel through the whole serial is didn't not play one of the investigators who might be the hero . He actually gets no screen credit what so ever , despite being on screen more than most other characters . ( A possible in joke has Steele in one of the chapters , sans Mask , asking someone who the Marvel is )
A Lost Treasure	Until recently I had never heard of this little gem of British holiday sentiment . I heard someone call it the " Christmas movie for people who don't like Christmas movies " and the quest to find it was on . This is the story of a Christmas in which the emotionally wounded family of a Church of England clergyman come home and attempt to have a happy holiday . What happens is not your typical happy tearjerker , nor is it a Christmas nightmare . Its a reasonably realistic , as much as films of the time could be in 75 minutes , look at a family of emotional cripples as they all try to put their lives back on track . The ending while hopeful is far from certain , so much so that I cursed the fact that it didn't go on another five or six hours , my sole complaint about the film . A word of warning , don't abandon the film until you get to the end . I wasn't enraptured of the film for almost two thirds of its running time . I was interested in what was happening but I didn't know if I liked it , and then suddenly all of the pieces were in place and it became this charming atypical jewel of a movie . Forget Its a Wonderful Life , watch this instead , its so much more real .
Pure Schlock That's Pure Fun	This is one of those movies that is so bad it instantly becomes a classic fun film . This is a movie where so much happens you won't be bored , it just keeps moving onward throwing monsters , gods , and myths in every which way at such a rate that you have to keep watching because you simply can't believe whats been thrown into the stew . Watch the film , preferably on a rainy afternoon when its the perfect time for a movie .
Excellent story of a father and son on the road to Hell	Based upon both real life and the Japanese comic and movies concerning the Lone Wolf and Cub , this is the story of a father and son who are out to get revenge for the murder of the rest of their family . It is a heart breaking examination about the relationship between fathers and sons and how a bad one can cause tragedy . This is not the comic book , which is fine , since this an excellent movie that takes the story into different thematic realms . The book was a very good tale concerned with telling a very good story first , and a story about sin and redemption second . This is one of the few cases where the source material was altered but not ruined by the film adaptation . See this movie . Its a great film no matter how you look at it .
The amazing life of the man who did more than father King Kong is required viewing for anyone who loves movies or just a really good story	This is a most amazing documentary about Merian C Cooper , the man who created King Kong . Cooper's statement that he was King Kong was made when he described his life to the man who was helping put together his ( unfinished ) autobiography . It was not an idle boast since Cooper did more than 20 other normal people , from fighting in three wars , escaping from a Russian prison camp , making movies , running an airline , having a family , and on and on and on . This documentary about his life is a wonderful look at man little known to most people . Thats due , as one person says , to the fact that he was doing so much you could never get a hold of him . Done for Turner Classic Movies and on the new DVD release of King Kong , this is a must see documentary for anyone who loves movies , regardless of if you like King Kong or not . This is the story of a man that changed the face of not only the movies , but the world we know today . What he did , what he developed influences how we see the world and what we think America is ( This goes for everyone in the world who has ever seen any of his films as well ) . This is a movie that will move you and make you wonder why someone hasn't made a movie about Cooper himself since it has more drama than 99 % of the movies ever made . The only flaw in the film , and the one thing that prevents me from giving it a is that after the film deals with King Kong the film loses sight of Cooper the man , instead focusing on his technical achievements . Cooper's life should have been told in twice the 57 minute running time . Its a minor flaw , that doesn't diminish the " Oh Wow ! " factor , however it does increase the " I want more " factor by several degrees . See this film .
Graphic meditation on life death and honor	( This review contains graphic spoilers ) Only film directed by Yukio Mishima is a 30 minute story about honor and death . Based upon one of his short stories Patriotism tells the story of a Captain involved in the 1936 coup against the Japanese government who is ordered to kill all of the conspirators . The Captain though involved in the planing did not take part out of deference to his wife . The conspirators never betrayed his part in in the plan . Unable to turn his back on his loyal friends he chooses to commit suicide as does his wife . Brief graphic tone poem that was filmed on a Noh stage , it is felt by many as one of the numerous dress rehearsals for Mishima's own bloody end . Shot in a moody black and white with a sense of unreality that makes it very real , this is a fetishistic mediation on life , death and honor that effects the viewer in an extremely visceral way . ( I will leave the viewer to get what he can from its sound and images ) . Its a kick in the gut even before we get to the suicides as we are forced to think about honor and what it means to alive . The suicide , though filmed silent ( the soundtrack is a scratchy record of European classical music ) is so intense that one can almost hear the scream from Mishima's lips when he drives the blade into himself . I won't say anymore other than its drawn out and graphic in a way I've never seen before . ( clearly there is a reason why those committing Seppuku are helped along by a friend who beheads them . ) I was left shaken by the experience . I can not imagine how audiences in 1966 when this was made reacted when they saw it for the first time . I knew what was going to happen and it still unnerved me . I know I will be contemplating it for days to come . I don't know what to say . It is a masterpiece that is weirdly overshadowed by its creators death and life . It is a haunting experience for those with a strong will .
A great film and one of the years best	Its been a while since I saw this and I'm still trying to find some words . The plot concerns a noted outlaw , Russel Crowe , caught in a small town . He has to be taken to a larger city with a rail connection where he will put him on the titled train . Along for the ride is a rancher , played by Christian Bale , a slightly disgraced man with a family and mounting debts who's trying to do the right thing even though his kids and his wife don't understand him or his choices . As the men get closer to the train the run into several obstacles , not the least of which are Crowe's men who are very intent on freeing their leader , no matter what the cost . A remake of a 1957 " classic " western this updated retelling adds some shading and some violence for a creation that is uniquely its own . Violence aside this film seems to belonging more in the classic era of the western . However " old fashioned " though it maybe in the telling ( as someone said in a review its clear that no one told director James Mangold that the western was dead ) , the film benefits from the muddying of the moral sensibilities since things are never as clear as the may have been in a by gone time . Why anyone is doing anything is never clear , even the hero played by Bale who is clearly carrying a chip on his shoulder the size of Montana . This grayness helps to make the good guys seem better and the bad guys worse since we know that what ever choice they have made its at great personal expense . Some are hailing the film as a classic , others are liking it but not loving it . I'm really confused about it . To be certain the film is close to being , if not on , the list of best films of the year ( I also keep wanting to use the term mythic , especially since it seems to shift into that mode at times ) . The question for me is whether its a classic or not . I've been going back and forth on the subject for the couple of hours and I still don't have an answer , which is why I can't really write about the film , even though it deserves to deeper discussion .
Brilliant	In a world of marionettes - the king of a great kingdom writes to his son , giving him the throne , asking him to find peace with their mortal enemies and warning against the evil of the king's brother . The king then commits suicide by cutting his head string . Unfortunately the king's act was discovered by his evil brother and the suicide is rearranged as a murder , the perpetrator members of the very enemy the king had wanted to find peace with . The Brother then sets in motion a vile plan to kill his nephew and seize the throne for himself . So begins one of the most unique films I've ever seen . Sure there have been puppet films before , but none that I've seen that have ever embraced their limitations so well that they turn them into an asset . Yes you see the strings , actually the strings are even more noticeable then they would be in a real live puppet show ( and yes the characters are very aware that they have strings ) . The reasoning is two fold , first it creates a wonderful visual motif at times with shots using the strings to create beautiful images such as emphasizing a rain storm or the bars of a prison . The strings also are used symbolically to allude to how we are all connected , how we are often on a leash and how there may be forces ( god / puppeteers ) above us . Its amazing . The best thing is that it's a great story . This is grand fantasy or grand adventure of the highest order . What happens is very human as we are forced to confront what we are told is the truth which often turns out not to be the case . It's a story of greed and hope , how your worst enemy can be your best friend , and how the sins of the fathers need not be visited on the sons . There is real pain and real danger . If this were a novel it would be a classic of the genre . Trust me I sat on the floor of my living room doing some sorting , totally and completely enraptured by what was going on because even when I wasn't looking up I was listening to a well acted ( Derek Jacobi as the villain ) and fantastically written story . It's the type of tale you'd curl up with on a cold winter's night before going to bed . Yea , I liked the film . If you want to see a great adventure , a great story , see this movie . Please don not let the fact that its marionettes keep you from seeing it . This is not for kids , or rather too small ones , since there is death and darkness , and a plot that maybe hard for them to follow . It's a kick in the head and there's a chance , at the end that maybe it will even cause a tear to run down your cheek . See it if you get the chance .
Scary documentary about what the Soviets were really doing in the US during the cold war	Under the radar documentary about KGB operations in the US pre-1982 is a scary little film even in retrospect , since it would seem what the Soviets were doing at the end of the 70's and start of the 80's are now being done by terrorists . Have we learned anything ? Clearly not . This is a great dense little film about what the Soviets were doing here . Its picture of spies running loose and unchecked in America is a frightening one and seems to be the reason that this film has been largely unseen for the better part of the last two decades ( why advertise your mistakes ? ) . How infiltrated were we ? They talk about the Russian embassy by my house on Long Island and how it existed basically as a means of listening in on phone calls from a major aircraft manufacturing plant and New York City . Not really shocking since everyone in the area suspected it but here's the proof front and center . You don't want to be proved right about somethings . Also front and center are the stories of the soviets flooding the US with spies and attachés ( we see pictures and learn their names ) , as well as their techniques for infiltration . The cold war maybe over but this little baby is very unsettling .
Do Not Confuse the Full Version With the Awful Tidal Wave	In the wake of the disaster cycle of the 1970's Roger Corman imported this film about the destruction of Japan , hacked out about 90 minutes , added Lorne Greene and dumped it on an easily fooled American public . How would Gone with the Wind survive with over three fifths of it cut away ? If you should be lucky enough to see the full Japanese cut of this film you will be treated not only to a spectacular disaster film , the disaster sequences being what Corman primarily pillaged , but one that raises many interesting social questions , if you know a country is ceasing to exist , what do you do with the population ? What happens when one of the world's financial powers ceases to exist ? How does the world view the Japanese , or any country for that matter ? The social questions are shoe horned in to the drama of people not only trying to survive the destruction but also find a place to go . The full two hour and thirty minute version is one of the best big budget disaster films ever made . Actually its much better than that , its simply one of the best films I've run across . Certainly its infinitely better than the film that runs half its length and is its bastard child . See the full version and avoid Tidal Wave .
Perfect Fun	Although the Frog Gang was thought to be out of business a sudden rash of crimes shows the mark , literally , of their return . Before long Inspector Elk is once again on the trail of the gang , only this time he's aided by Dale Sandford from Chicago , who may very well be the one that calls himself the Frog . I maybe over selling this movie by giving it a , but few of the mysteries of the time make me laugh , smile and sit on the edge of my seat the way this one does . This one has everything in abundance , chases , fights , smart ass lines , romance , and best of all genuine mystery , something most mysteries of the period are lacking . There is only one false note in the entire film and that is the performance of the Frog when he's revealed in the final moments . No , its not the best movie ever made , there are " problems " with it that would keep it from being a " perfect " film , but I'm not looking for a perfect film . I , like most people I know , tend to watch the old mysteries for a feel that they engender , its not the mystery or acting but a place that they take you to and this one has it in spades . It feels like an old friend even when you're only just seeing it . Its a movie from a simpler time when the heroes were good , and the villains were bad and even though you know in the back of your head it will come out okay , you still sense that anything can and will happen . Its the old mystery you might have made had you had the chance to do so way back when . Put this on my list of all time favorites , its destined to become a well worn DVD .
Not Potted Plants	One would think that three people sitting in urns , not moving , telling the same story twice would be dull and boring , but its not . Using cross cutting and cinema tricks to make what on stage is a very static , very dull and over rated piece of twaddle , Anthony Minghella had fashioned an interesting and quite stimulating piece of film . What the point of it all is or is not I will leave up to the viewer . The real achievement of this film is how it makes essentially a play where nothing physically happens into a movie with motion and movement and excitement ( of a sort ) . Film students would be hard pressed to find a better example of what it means for the cinema to be in motion .
Cinematic Torture	If movies are suppose to effect the viewer then this movie is king of the hill . From the dis-orienting camera moves that open the film through the violence in the gay bar , the seemingly never ending rape and the films unraveling of the days events in a backwards march I have yet to meet anyone who has not been deeply effected by this movie - if they were brave enough or stupid enough to watch it . ( I'm still trying to figure out a local Best Buy displaying a large number of DVD's as if it was the latest Adam Sandler movie ) It is not an easy movie to watch but as an examination of what people are capable and how violence can come from nowhere and from the unexpected its a masterpiece . The backward structure takes what is essentially a dull revenge story and turns it on its ear as we are forced to really examine how things get out of hand very quickly and what people will do when pushed to the limit . If you want a challenge to your psyche and can brave simply some of the most vicious and nasty screen violence ( yes its graphic but much is also implied ) then see this movie - preferably with out distraction . But be warned , even if you think you know what this movie is about and what your limits in screen violence is , you still won't be prepared for what a mental hot foot this film is .
I love this movie	The Trollenberg Terror is one of my most favorite horror films . Essential the story of these giant eyes with tentacles in clouds from space trying to take over the world , this movie has been been treasure since I first saw it . I've seen it now at least fifty times and it always makes me stop when I run across it on TV . MonsterHD was running it earlier tonight on cable and I found I was really watching it for the first time . I think it was because of the big screen TV and seeing it unchopped up with commercials or in a print thats scratchy and well worn . What struck me was the fact that allowing that the premise is silly , as most horror films are , that once you got past that once you got into the film its genuinely taught and suspenseful . Its a horror film that doesn't really let up and stays true to its internal logic . Its a really good ripping yarn , not an excuse to just show monsters . the movie has somehow improved in my eyes , which I didn't think was possible .
Film puts you into the Tour de France in a way a kin to magic	Louis Malle's 19 minute take on the Tour de France is a masterpiece . I loved it . Rapid cutting puts you into the Tour in ways that modern coverage have not matched , partly I think because we know better than to let crazy people near the riders . With narration that is made up of commentary of the riders and the event we see the joys of winning , the agony of losing and just whats its like to ride . Since the film is not about a race or a stage of the race , rather about what its like to race we have time to see what it must be like to ride . We see the riders up close and see the pain on their faces . We see crashes , drink raids ( stopping at roadside bar and stealing drinks ) , the crowd whizzing by and the people who help the riders . Its a whirl wind 19 minutes and I was ready to start the film all over again once I finished it .
Easily one of the best films of the year .	No its not perfect but the emotional punch is awesome . Jet Li is Danny , Bob Hoskins " dog " . He's a trained killer who shows no mercy once the collar comes off . He's emotionally still a child and barely speaks . Through circumstance he's thrown together with Morgan Freeman and his step daughter . Over the course of weeks Danny becomes human . The three become a family . Things are fine until Hoskins reappears and wants Danny back . There's more to it than that but its enough to go on . Wow and wow . And WOW . This is going to annoy many people who want a straight action film . This is not that sort of film . This is what is called a character driven action film , or a drama with violence since the fights are secondary to the humans , something most action directors seem to forget these days . The fights are at the start and the end and its all drama for most of it . All tension and emotion ( and there is a great deal of both ) come out of the characters and what you feel about them . You feel and are moved because you care . Even the violence changes as Danny changes . Amazing . Jet Li is fantastic as Danny and if you only know him from action films you're in for a treat . He breaks your heart . His costars are equally wonderful . See this movie . Remove any expectations , but see this movie . I can't say enough good about it .
Hey that was great , where's the rest of it ?	Done in the style of a 1940's serial this all too brief film has Rex Steele going to the jungles of South America to smash Nazis . Hurray for our side ! This movie is a blast and a half . Its a perfect evocation of the old movie serials ( and trust me I've seen three quarters of them ) . This movie starts and goes like a bandit with some of the best animation to come off of an American animators drawing board in years . If nothing else you will be amazed at the flying scenes . The only flaw is that the film , like the serials it apes , ends on a cliffhanger with you wanting to see more . I was so desperate for more Rex Steele I had to watch the DVD a couple more times in a row . Where is the rest of this ? I would gladly pay to see the remaining 14 chapters of Steele's adventures . The guys involved are some how connected to Pixar who could easily continue their string of hits by putting a Rex Steele feature into the cue . See this film . You will love it . , and a grin from ear to ear .
Awesome in the truest sense of the word .	A masterpiece of cinema , Kung Fu Hustle takes everything from everywhere and mixes it up into a new breed of film . This is a film that sets the bar on what can be done to amaze us at a new level . Its not all amazing visuals but great story telling as well , something that will probably allow this film to live on for the next hundred years . The film has been compared to a Looney Tunes version of a Quentin Tarantino film , and while its partly true , it has to be remembered that Tarantino has been raiding the work of filmmakers like Stephen Chow for years and telling people its his own stuff . Here we have the real deal and the action in this blows anything that Tarantino has done , in particular the House of Blue Leaves sequence in Kill Bill , off the map . This is simply a great film .
Both sides of the abortion debate presented fairly and disturbingly . It will make you think no matter where you stand . Its one of the best documentaries I've ever seen	Tony Kaye's masterpiece documentary on the abortion issue carefully walks both sides of the issue , showing those for and those against the right to choose . Kaye's film is unflinching in its portrayal of the subject where we do see the end result of the procedure in graphic detail ( thank god the film is black and white ) . No matter which side you sit on the film will give you pause to think about whether your " side " is the right one . What I admire most is that the film gives us both the radical and the intellectual of both sides , we get the nut jobs and we get the reasoned . The result is a film that is all the more quietly devastating in its power since you are forced to see the other side . If the film leans toward any side , it is perhaps in the end angled toward humanity in that in the end we watch as a young woman goes in for an abortion and we see the toll it takes on her . She is not a loose woman who is cavalier in her attitude as the right would have us all believe , nor is she a self assured young woman strong in her conviction as many in the left would like to make the women having abortions to be . She is a human being . She is a person and she is conflicted by her choice . It is here that Kaye makes a great film , a great statement by reducing all of the talk down to a person and her choice and real feelings and the real cost and the real experience , and not an intellectual argument or religious belief . It is a long tough film . It is a great film , that has no answers . See the film , just be prepared to be thinking about it for a long time afterward . .
Great overview of the horror film to 1996 ( though mostly focused on pre-1970 films ) will entertain and inform anyone who makes the effort to see it	A few years ago I picked up a bargain DVD called the 100 Years of Horror . It was a 2 hour documentary about the history of horror films . It was hosted by Christopher Lee and consisted of clips and trailers from classic films , public domain films , interviews ( both new and old ) to tell the 100 year history of horror films . I liked it a great deal but always thought it was missing something . It was , it was missing the rest of the 26 part series . Now Passport Video has put it all out and boy is it a treat . This is a 26 part series that is a really good over view of horror films from the silent days until now . Its very informative , even for those who already know a great deal . One of the strengths of the series is that it puts many things with in a real context historical so you see the evolution of characters and the genre . The series does this not only through the narration but also by allowing the people who were there to speak . Christopher Lee's narration not only informs but also entertains with personal anecdotes since he has had a close association to many of the topic covered . And lets not forget that it reveals great little tidbits such as Bela Lugosi signing to be a TV horror host just weeks before his death . No , its not perfect , the films covered tend to be those that they have footage from either because they are in public domain or because they have trailers ( which are used because they are also in the public domain ) . Its a clever dodge and may annoy some people but at the same time it allows a good number of films from a good many studios to be covered . The interviews are for the most part very good , with some relating to the Hammer films come from the excellent Flesh and Blood : The Hammer Heritage of Horror , which is also by the same director . Additionally we get clips from various TV shows , Climax , Thriller , Route 66 , This is Your Life . Its an amazing collection of material that in a better funded documentary would probably have been left out for time constraints if nothing else . Thats one of the real joys here-the staggering amount of material , this is 10 or so hours of reasonably in depth discussion . Certainly there is repetition , as subjects repeat in episodes we get repeated footage and bits of interviews , but at the same time the makers of this series always give you a bit of new material to chew on . For example in the episode on Bela Lugosi his son tells how Bela and Boris never really had a bad word to say about each other . In the Boris Karloff episode part of the same clip is used , but this time with addition information . Its amazing what you find in this series , I mean where else would you get an old TV appearance with Boris Karloff singing ? Best of all this is a series that builds understanding the more episodes you see . Since the series is so long you really get a feeling for how the genre has grown over the years . As you watch it things that may make little sense in one episode will have a greater resonance the more episodes you watch . Comments about Karloff being in a great mood during the filming of Son of Frankenstein in one of the Frankenstein episodes because his daughter had just been born resonates at the end of the episode entirely devoted to the man when we see him playing joyfully with his little girl . Its a nice touch that would be lost had I just seen one of the episodes alone . You also get a real sense of how the tastes changed for example take the story of say Lugosi's desire to do a color version of Dracula was crushed by the studios only to have Christopher Lee rise to prominence two years after his death in a color version of the story . Its a small little bit related by Lee at the end of the Lugosi episode , but which makes much more sense if you've seen the Dracula and vampire episodes that start the series . This is a wonderful overview of horror films to date , or at least when it was made circa 1996 . Certainly the series concentrates on the years prior to 1970 , but there is enough information to keep it feeling current . Highly recommended .
YES IT IS THAT GOO	After getting out of a hotel room like prison a man searches for answers and revenge . The description is simple , direct and probably the best way to explain this great film . Its not that a more detailed recounting of the plot would ruin it like say the Sixth Sense , or The Village , rather its simply that the plot is so layered that to know more simply may result in too much confusion . Containing a central performance that is simply one of the best performances of the last five or ten years this film is Oscar worthy from top to bottom , which is a shame since as of this writing the film has not yet been released in the United States where it would undoubtedly blow away almost any film it comes in contact with . Ultimately it is better than even the Michael Moore film it lost to at Cannes . This is grand film making and I can not recommend it highly enough . However be warned , its violent and dark at times . It will disturb you , the same way that Silence of the Lambs or Seven disturbed you ( although there are no serial killers ) .
One of the Great but Unknown Horror Films of All Time	This film has to come to DVD soon so that more people can discover this chilling little trip into hell . The plot is simple , fleeing in a plane from a heist with hostages in tow , one robber tries a double cross by jumping out of the plane with the money and the others go back after him . The trouble is where they ended up is not where you really want to be , its a farm in the middle of nowhere and undead things are moving about and they are out for blood . Very little of why these things , these scarecrows , are lurking about is explained and its more terrifying for it since we don't know what the " rules " are . This film takes place in one blood soaked night and there isn't time to explain whats happening . All we know is that first these bad guys want their money back and second they want to stay alive . They don't have time to worry about anything beyond that . For me thats a big plus since its realistic , if you got into a situation like this you wouldn't care about the hows and whys , you'd just want it to stop . Some people need to be hand held and told every thing at every minute , if you need to know exactly why and how go somewhere else , since the film won't give you that , however its internal logic never fails . If you love horror or thrillers see this movie . This is one of the best , shot in low light and heavy shadow , it become oppressive , especially if you watch it with the lights out . This movie will freak you out , and make you wonder about that man hanging out in the fields .
Forget the plot . Simply put this is one of the greatest , most action packed movies ever made , even if it only cost two bucks to make	In English this film is called The Biggest Fist . What can I say about a movie that lifts its action scenes from mis-matched American movies ( They flipped sequences from Diamonds are Forever so the words are backwards , use the chase from Goldfinger , and I'm trying to figure out where the motorcycle sequences come from ) , has the car the hero drives change repeated through out a sequence , only pauses for two minutes at a time for drinks ( no really ) , has a sveltely pre-Xena wanna be in spandex as the kick ass heroine , has a beauty contest in the middle of it for no reason , a cat-fight for the affections of the hero - during which he sits and reads the paper , has more martial arts action then any ten Hong Kong films , loses its logic half way in - but keeps going , had bad visual effects ( except for those it stole ) and is in Turkish with no subtitles ? The only thing to say is five stars , , one of the best schlock action films ever made . Pure dreck but worth three bags of popcorn and two gallons of soda . This is pure devil may care / lets make a movie no matter how we have to get the footage cinema which was some how released to paying customer-albeit in Turkey . Amazing , absolutely amazing . . . and really watchable even if you have no idea what they're saying or doing or why ( Maybe its better that way ) . If you can go with the badness and surf it , this is one of the great cinema treasures of action chiefdom . A movie to hunt down and enjoy repeatedly
Mad mix of genres is a classic turn your brain off and enjoy film	This film is not high art . This film was never intended to be high art . Its a popcorn movie and as such its scores at the top of the charts . The plot of this gem has a bunch of women with various criminal skills thrown into prison during World War 2 . They escape and proceed to head off to destroy a chemical lab in a well fortified valley . What begins as a crime film , slips into a women behind film , then to a prison escape film , then a World War 2 secret mission film , onward into a western ; there are ghosts , a James Bond spoof and everything you can think of except a musical number . This film almost ( literally ) has it all . And its all just serious enough to be interesting and silly enough to be enjoyable . And whats a great film without some mind bending moments : the Japanese ( I guess ) villains all wear Nazi SS uniforms ; the women all sport sunglasses and hair styles from the early 1980's , the prison guard tower spotlights are theatrical spotlights , the English dub has one of the girls a Southern belle and several of the men as dundering idiots . There's more , but I'll leave you to find it out . This is the perfect film for those nights when you're not sure what type of movie you want to see . Its a low brow action film thats just meant to entertain , and thats what it does . If you like exploitation style action films this is an absolute must see . ( A " sequel " is Pink Force Commandos )
Guilty Pleasure of the highest order	Sue me I loved this movie . In the opening moments I went " oh this is one of those leave your brain at home movies " so I politely turned my mind off and enjoyed a hour and a half or so of mindless action . What great fun this was . The plot has Ice Cube , who is quite good , being recruited as the new XXX to help stop a villainous plot that begins with an attack on Samuel L Jackson's base and leads to a possible coup by a military group . The movie begins on a high note and just runs all the way to the end barely pausing long enough to take a breath . This is great popcorn film making thats never really believable but which hooks you and drags you along . I loved this movie . Its so mindless and entertaining and doesn't try to be anything beyond that . Its great . I don't know if its because the movie just hits me right or because earlier in the day I suffered through the wildly uneven new Star Wars , but there is something about this film thats wonderful . I have no idea why so many people dislike this film , certainly its no worse than the first XXX film , which was a guilty pleasure itself . Perhaps people can't buy Ice Cube as an action hero . What ever the reason this film is sorely under rated . Turn off your mind and don't think about anything , just let the movie tell its story and you'll have a good time . I know I'm looking forward to future viewings of this new addition to my guilty pleasure list .
It may not be great but its one of my favorite films	Russian made fantasy film concerning Wolfhound who seeks to get revenge on the people who killed his family and his tribe and threw him into slavery . He ends up meeting a princess and . . . well thats the story . I don't know if this is a great film , I really don't care , Frankly the film grabbed on an emotional level and took me back to the place I go when I read good swords and sorcery novels . From the point where we see Wolfhound and his bat , I was hooked . More so once he started his solo assault on the castle that is the first great ( yes great ) set piece of the film . No one is making films like this any more . . . or maybe ever . This film has the high adventure of old Hollywood fantasy films but mixes it with a sense of reality and gravitas that is missing in pretty much every sword and sorcery fantasy movie . As much fun as the earlier films were they always had a sense of dress up . In most cases we were not in these mythical kingdoms , we were on sets . Lord of the Rings came along and blew that all to hell . Now everything feels unreal . . . or did until this film came along . Set in a time when " the gods still walked among men " the film has the feel of a rural Russia . We are in these places , the towns , the forests , the castles and the temples . These are real places . The characters seem real as well . To be certain they are not real people but the fantasy equivalent , but they still feel as though they belong in the world they inhabit . This is a world where magic works and for most of the film its kept to a minimum so that the magic we see is special ( indeed the film is reasonably free of CGI which only really shows up for the final show down between the various factions , and while the CGI at the end isn't LOTR perfect , it gets the job done ) . The story , based in some form on a novel or novels , is nicely dense . The film doesn't breeze along mindlessly , it is heading in a certain direction and it takes its time going where its going so that layers and characters are built up . Many minor characters are given enough of a presence so that when you meet them later in the film , or see them in the background you have a sense that the character is some one other than soldier number 2 . If there is a flaw it is perhaps an odd side trip to a river community . While it allows for some information to be brought in to the plot it isn't wholly necessary ( perhaps what happens there will have effects in the promised sequels ) . Also helping things is a dynamite score which is often hauntingly beautiful . I may have to try and track down a cd if one exists . The music is often married to some very beautiful sequences to stunning effect , I'm particularly thinking of the song of the prisoner who changed his fate and the sequence when the princess heads off to meet her bridegroom the latter is a beautiful sequence that is cross cut with the bad guys getting ready to attack . I love the film . I can't speak rationally about it since even though its flawed ( the opening sequence where the villains attack and kill Wolfhound's family is clichéd and has some really bad wigs ) I fell under its spell . Its a grand adventure film of the highest order . Its the sort of film they don't make any more - or never really did . You'll forgive me I want to go into great detail about the film but I think it would be better if you just saw it for yourself . Its wonderful .
Lead up to Walking With Dinosaurs is its equal	The latest Walking with special follows life from one celled animals in the sea until the advent of dinosaurs . Its a thrilling trip that is the equal to the original series . Here the series looks not only at life at various times through the ages but also gives you a sense of how the various creatures may have evolved by having time lapse shots of the creatures moving up the evolutionary ladder . This is great stuff and the perfect way to begin a marathon look at how life has grown and changed over the eons . While there is the inevitable eat or be eaten theme to the whole thing you do get a nice sens that there is more to it all then just that . Also what we see here dovetails nicely with the other Walking specials so that when put together you get a sense of how life moves and evolves not only for dinosaurs but even now . A must see , especially when coupled with the other series
Love Letter to the Movies	The memory play of a movie of a film director who returns to his home for the funeral of his father figure , is one of the best films about movies ever made . Certainly its probably the greatest film about the love of film the medium has ever produced . It is not a flawless film , the romance in the latter half of the film isn't as strong as everything else and it weakens , some what the rest of the film . Even so I wouldn't change a frame of the film . I love the Ennio Morricone score , which is haunting even now three years since I last saw the film . If you love movies see this film , its a glorious tribute to life in the cinema , as maker , projector and most of all watcher . And I dare any truly diseased film lover to watch the film from start to finish and not cry at the end , that one sequence says more about what movies do for us than anything else . SEE THIS MOVIE .
A modern classic	Updated retelling of Sergei Prokofiev's Peter and the Wolf is a masterpiece of stop motion animation . Set in modern Russia it pretty much follows the story of young Peter going out into world despite his Grandfathers warning and encountering a wolf . What makes this film so special is that the film has so many small touches that add life and magic to the oft told tale . Look at all of the facial expressions . These are not inanimate objects these are real people and real characters . Look at all of the eyes how alive they seem . Director Suzie Templeton has added a much needed element , danger , to the proceedings . In all the years and all of the countless times I've heard the piece I never really feared for Peter or his friends , here at last I do . Its an edgy retelling that is more emotive since Peter is in very real danger of getting hurt or killed . There is an edge and a weight to the proceedings that I've never experienced before . Its not fair to compare this to the Disney version since they are two very different takes on the same story . Both valid , both excellent , but not rightly compared . Make an effort to see this film , it quite possibly a classic .
An Absolute Must See	The story of the real man behind Mickey Mouse is must see viewing for anyone who wants to know where Mickey Mouse , Warner Brothers or any of the other classic cartoons came from . Iwerks was Disney's " go to " guy who could figure out how to do anything , first with animation , later with work behind the scenes that brought Iwerks and the Disney Studios several Oscars . Using dozens of clips and interviews this documentary makes the work and life of Iwerks wonderfully alive . We see how he went from the " simple " doodles of the 20's with Disney to the more complicated spectacles of the 30's at his own studio . We also see how the task of running a studio began to make his work suffer . And we see what magic he worked when he went back to Disney . The joy of this film is seeing the mostly long forgotten cartoons and realizing where many of the gags that we take for granted came from . ( Although if you want to see the magic in all its glory there are two DVDs worth of Iwerks non-Disney output available cheaply and they make for a great couple of evenings of viewing ) In some ways this film is more satisfying than the companion book , which often sent me scurrying to my video collection to see the cartoons they were talking about . Here what you see is what they are talking about . This is simply one of the best films on animation and our cultural history . It fills a need that needed filling . for the gee whiz factor alone . A personal comment . Despite the fact the Disney Studio financed and released this film , it was only released on VHS tape ( granted DVD was coming in as this was first released ) and has only been occasionally run on the Disney Channel . Its a grave injustice since this film deserves to be seen many more people . Search it out on tape or cable , its worth the effort .
As disturbing as they come . Its not whats out there thats scary its whats in here with us	After a horrific storm that came out of no where a mist rolls into a strip mall where residents are stocking up on goods to tide them over until the power comes on . Unfortunately there is something ( actually things ) in the mist and they are hungry . One of the most profoundly disturbing horror films I've ever seen . I'm shaking all over . This is a masterpiece of visceral horror . Its black as night with almost no hope . As the film progresses people turn on each other , egged on by Marsha Gay Harden as a religious zealot . Its a frightening thing . The fear and terror comes not so much what we are seeing ( frankly I really wish that there had been less CGI since its a little too clear at times its not real ) rather from the oppressive mood thats created . There is a minimal use of music so its just the sounds of the people and the mist and nothing to block it out . The scary scenes are not the way cool monsters its the lack of monsters , its when nothing is happening or when people are fighting or simply discussing . Who needs to see the things that go bump in the night ? Not perfect , the film still shakes you up . It left me profoundly disturbed and uneasy . See this film if you want to be shaken at your core . And yes the ending has been changed from the story . The ending is a black as any American film I've ever seen . Even if you can guess the end it will still leave you shaken .
One of the bloodiest , most over the top horror comedy martial arts films ever made ( Or maybe the only one )	If you hate blood and guts ( literally ) stop reading now this movie is in no way for you . On the popcorn scale of fun brain removed films this is on the top rung for laugh out loud enjoyment . The plot has Ricky , a kid with super strength being thrown into prison for killing the man responsible for the girl he loved . This is a corrupt privatized prison of the future where the prisoners are nothing more than cheap labor . Ricky instantly gets under the skin of the wardens , the guards and the leaders of the prison population . Cartoon violence with bloody gory consequences ensue . Body parts go flying as Ricky fights to stay alive and help his fellow prisoners . This is one of the bloodiest movies I've ever seen . Think Python's Salad Days sketch but for 90 minutes . There is blood and limbs everywhere . The effects run from very good to god awful , with most just okay . None of it is really " real " . There's no way you could do this film realistic , assuming the plot allowed it , with out having the audience throwing up all over the place . I'm assuming they are done the way they are for effect , we see the effect of the violence and laugh at the silliness of it all while keeping our lunches . And as the film spins more and more out of control , with plot holes that are more like stellar voids , you find your self staring and laughing at it all , disbelieving that grown people put this together . Its a 12 year-old's action figure dream come true , but some how it all works on an adult level since the film makers seem to be winking and nodding at those watching it . High camp ? Low brow ? There is nothing in this film that seems to be serious except for the way that pretty much everyone plays it dead nuts straight to wonderful tongue through cheek effect . Not a movie you want to see on a first date ( or any date ) this is a movie to watch with some loud friends with strong stomachs and a great sense of the absurd . Its not a great film as such and I doubt it was ever intended to be , however on the throw your mind out of the car on the way to the video store scale this film rates at the top . And I can't stress enough this film lives up to its rep for blood and guts . If you don't like to see them flying in every direction stay away stay away stay away .
No , its not the Comic	Most people were upset that this film did not live up to the reputation for Moore and O'Neill's very over rated first comic book series , which is sad since taken on its own its a good little action film . The story in which a bunch of great literary characters are brought together to defeat a literary bad guy is excitingly told . Granted the visual effects are at times lacking but its the adventure that drives the beast and here its top notch even if its predictable ( How could it NOT be ? ) The cast is fantastic with not a bad one in the bunch , its impossible to tell the set was filled with strife since they appear to be having such a wonderful time . Turn your mind off and drop any expectations and simply see this film . Its the type of movie they don't make any more , not that I'm sure they ever did .
You will either groove on its knowing brand of low comic silliness or you'll hate it	Just sprung from prison Hudson Hawk finds himself being chased by an insane and insanely rich couple , the CIA and the Vatican in a mad chase to get bits of a gold making machine made by Da Vinci . Along the way stupid jokes are told , the plot is ignored or twisted in the name of a joke and the entire cast winks at the audience repeatedly as if to say that even they can't believe the silly things they are doing in the name of fun . When this movie opened it was crucified by critics across the country as an unfunny vanity project . It sunk the promising career of the director and made people take a second look at Bruce Willis . very few people braved the reviews and saw this in theaters . Me ? I'm one of the six people in America that went to see this on opening night . I've loved this movie from the first and my opinion has grown with each viewing . I remember arguing with people for weeks afterward that they should see this movie because it was damn funny . No one listened to me , and it wasn't until cable and home video that people discovered this wrongly dismissed gem . This is more proof that sometimes critics don't get it . Then again all humor is subjective and what one person finds funny is not what other people find funny . I love this knowingly dumb , puny , go for the obvious , nothing is sacred or too stupid to try collection of jokes and gags . Other people are offended or utterly bored by its often infantile antics . I find it charming and harmless , other people find it cruel ( Bunny Ball Ball ! ) . I can't say which camp you'll fall into , but I think that you should ignore the critics and just see this movie . Its mindless fun of the highest order .
This expands characters , plot lines and ends with a massive battle unlike anything you've seen-and yet it will touch your heart deeply	Picking up immediately after the end of the first film ( There is a brief recap during the opening credits but don't think its going to get you up to speed if you haven't seen the first film . ) the two opposing armies still sit across the river from each other . The " evil " prime minister with his vast army and navy waits across the water waiting for the right time to strike the assembled warlords from the South . The Warlords on the other hand are drawing up their final plans . They are waiting for more weapons to arrive and for one of their own to return from the enemy camp with vital intelligence . As the film get under way alliances are tested , the dire need of weapons is made clear and typhoid begins to get a foot hold in both camps . As the first 90 or so minutes of the film unfolds the stage is set and things are amped up for a battle that last the better part of an hour and is utterly exhausting . As a stand alone film , ( one that stands alone but is connected to the first film , but not one that you can come upon on its own and hope to understand fully ) this is awesome . Its takes a while to get reacquainted to all of the characters and plot lines but once you get a grasp again on every one and everything the film is truly compelling . This is a spectacle and an epic film that puts most Hollywood films to shame . The size of this film is massive . Its clear that most of what you are seeing is real , the people , the places are all real . Yes there is CGI , particularly in the final battle , but then there would have to be simply because you couldn't have done it any other way . I honestly don't have words to describe this film . To be honest I was a bit disappointed at the start because the film takes a while to get to the battle . Its not that there is anything wrong with the timing , except that when the first film ended I would have thought the battle was going to quickly come . As I said earlier it takes 90 minutes for the battle to actually start , but the time isn't wasted . Characters that were not as well drawn in the first film are fleshed out here . Plot is revealed , twists exposed . and we as the audience is made to connect more . Its all for a reason . I was a bit fidgety in my seat for a while until I realized that it was simply wanting to get to the final show down not because of what was on the screen . I mean how can one quibble where you have sequences like the burning of the bodies , the hospital speech , the scarecrows , or the return of the spy all of which are perfectly constructed set pieces . On top of that you have the wonderful interplay between the characters that makes the final sequence all that more emotional . Once I realized I was being stupid the film fell into place . This is simply put a great film . It needs to be seen on a big screen close to the first part . - - - - - - - - - - Red Cliff as a whole ( both parts ) is I think one of the best films I've ever seen . Its an awesome experience . I know I keep saying that but I don't know what else to say . Its a nicely paced five hour film that has fully rounded characters ( something it may take the full run time to see happen ) , fantastic action , deep emotion and almost anything you could want . I don't know how deep the film is but as a " romance " film , in the classical sense , its truly amazing . John Woo has made a masterpiece , though on some level even that is too small a word . Its a film that is only really comparable to films like War and Peace , Lord of the Rings and a handful of others where film becomes an immersion tank . You are dropped in this place and time and for many hours the world passes before your eyes . Its one of those films where you can't even really talk about the flaws because they are so inconsequential ( and to be fair some of the things that bothered me about the first film , lack of character for example , are corrected in the large canvas ) . Even if one were to quibble with some of the visual effects , its kind of pointless because there is no way to have filmed a navy on fire on the scale its seen here with anything other then computer effects . How in the world are they going to cut this in half ? I don't know if its possible . There will be holes in the plot and way too many unrealized characters . In releasing this as a sort film they are going to make a lesser film . Certainly all of the emotion will be drained . John Woo has made his best film , a film that transcends most other films . See it - preferably in its full glory .
Damning Documentary of Humanity	Sent to Africa to make the next Mondo Cane movie the film makers found themselves in the middle of several revolutions . What they would film would form the basis of a damning attack on everyone , both black and white , involved in the shift in power on the Dark Continent . I've watched the three versions of this film and I'm a fan of all of them . Interestingly the one I like the least is the original cut of the film which has several snide comments and re-dubbed voices that make the film truly rude and cruel for no good reason . The original cut goes out of its way to have a holier than thou view that is missing from both of the English cuts . The original cut also has several more minutes of animal cruelty that is completely uncalled for . This film ran into serious trouble upon its original release because charges were brought , though later found to be false , that the film makers had paid some of the soldiers to kill some one so that they could film it . ( this charge would form the basis for The Wild Eye , a fictional film about the making of a mondo movie made by another Mondo Cane director ) Considering all of the the death and destruction in this film I find it hard to believe that anyone would have had to have been paid to kill anyone . Yes , its a tough film , but it leaves no one with clean hands , even the film makers . See this film . It will make you think .
One of the Best Mickey Shorts Ever	As the second Mickey in Color DVD collection shows , after the release of the Brave Little Tailor Mickey's screen career was on a steady slide into the toilet . Outside of his feature appearances Mickey's films were dull . It wasn't until the 1980's with Mickey's Christmas Carol and The Prince and the Pauper that the animators knew what to do with the Disney symbol . In 1995 they released this gem and it simply is one of the best Disney shorts ever produced . Mickey in need of money to buy a gift for Minnie gets mixed up with a mad scientist and mayhem that previously was only witnessed in Warner cartoons occurs . Its every horror movie cliche turned on its head . What can I say ? This is funny funny stuff , that Disney , attached to some live action box office dog , so odds are you've never seen it , which is a shame because its so good that it almost single handedly makes the Price of the Mickey Mouse in Color Volume Two DVD set worth buying . Go track it down . Its only seven minutes long so you'll be able to watch it three or four times in a row with out feeling like you've wasted too much time . This is a true Disney classic .
