Setting new standards in movie badness	I just finished watching Racket Girls and it's got me thinking about some of the ratings I've given other movies . Do those movies really deserve a when compared with the hella bad Racket Girls ? Is Hillbillys in a Haunted House as bad as Racket Girls ? In comparison , Hillbillys was almost fun ? stupid fun , but fun nonetheless . What about Zombie Lake ? Zombie Lake comes close to falling into that " so bad , it's good " category ? something Racket Girls could never hope to achieve . Sinbad of the Seven Seas ? Lou Ferrigno can be good for an unintentional laugh or two ? something I can't say about anything in Racket Girls . How about a movie like Red Zone Cuba ? Well , you got me there ? but Racket Girls is just as bad . I could go on and on , but you get the idea . Racket Girls has to be one of the very worst movies I've ever had the misfortune to see . Many of the other movies I've given low ratings to come out smelling like roses in comparison . The plot , such as it is , involves a shady wrestling promoter who is also into gambling , prostitution , and drugs . Nice fella , huh ? He's got the local mob after him for $35 , 000 so he tries to have his girls throw a few matches to raise the cash he needs . They won't go for it so he tries to make a run for it . It's tacky , dull , and lacks anything in any way resembling entertainment . Movies truly don't get much worse than this . There's really only one way to watch a movie like Racket Girls . The Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary turns this piece of trash into a goldmine of laughs . It's a very solid effort on the part of the MST3K crew . I give it a on my MST3K rating scale .
" I have a job too ; I'm a tool . "	I've just about reached my limit . I've watched more than my share of bad movies in the past few months . Sure , as is the case with Future War , I've watched many of these movies courtesy of and with the assistance of Mystery Science Theater 3000 - but I've watched them just the same . Future War may be the last for a while . It's so bad I'm ready to swear off bad movies all together . The plot is a completely ridiculous mish-mash of incomprehensible ideas that never made a lick of sense to me . Something about a traveler from the future with cyborgs and their dinosaur " trackers " hot on his heels . The only person he's got to turn to for help is a former druggy / prostitute turned nun facing a crisis of faith . Like I said , none of it makes sense . I've said this so many times that I'm starting to sound like a broken record , but Future War is bad in every way a movie can be bad . The acting is beyond pitiful . Neither of the movies ' two leads , Daniel Bernhardt or Travis Brooke Stewart , seem capable of acting their way onto a community theater stage , let alone a sound-stage . Most surprising to me is that Bernhardt went on to have a fairly successful career , because in Future War , he comes across as nothing more than a Jean-Claude Van Damme wannabe without any of Van Damme's talent . ( Did I just insinuate that Van Damme has talent ? ) Beyond the acting , the special effects are of particular note . The dinosaurs are about the most Gawd awful things I've seen in a movie . I could film something about as realistic with the plastic dinosaurs my son has in his room . Wait a minute - I think that might be what they used ! Finally ( and believe me , I could go on forever ) , the editing in Future War is atrocious . Some scenes are edited so poorly that it's all but impossible to follow the action . Overall , Future War is about as bad as a movie can get . I can't really come up with an inspired description , so I'll end this by saying , " It sux ! "
Painful	I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I just finished watching Crossroads . Now , before anyone calls the men in the white suits to come pick me up , I should add that I would have never watched it without the rifftrax commentary . The commentary turned what would have been an experience akin to visiting one of the seven layers of Hell into one of the funniest things I've ever sat through . Hysterical ! The plot , not that it matters , involves recent high school graduate named Lucy ( Britney Spears ) . Together with two other friends , they travel across country , each with a different goal for their trip . Along the way they discover the true meaning of friendship . ( Did I just write that ? What a load of crap ! ) I'm not sure who told Britney Spears she could act , but they should be drummed out of the entertainment industry post-haste . In a word , she's abysmal . Her co-stars don't fair much better , but with a script like this , anyone would look foolish . This thing is just wretched from the word " Go " . Crossroads is one painful experience .
Bad , Bad , Bad	It's been awhile since I last posted one of these user comments - and what a winner I've returned with . Wizards of the Demon Sword was made during a period rife with extremely bad sword and sorcerer movies , yet it has the dubious distinction of being about the worst I've thus far run across . It didn't take long for me to realize just how much I was going to dislike the movie . As soon as the film's supposed hero appeared on-screen , I found myself instantly and negatively comparing him to the hero of another putrid sword and sorcerer movie , Deathstalker II . And any comparison with that jackass is definitely not a good thing . Antoher big problem is the plot . Wizard of the Demon Sword's plot isn't worth devoting a minute of time or an ounce of effort to . It's a mish-mash of recycled ideas that any fan of this genre will have seen dozens of times - and usually done much better . In fact , nothing in the movie is worth devoting much time and effort to . So I'll wrap this up with by saying that the tired plot , the poor acting , the non-existent special effects , the dull screenplay , and the lousy direction make Wizards of the Demon Sword a poor excuse of a movie that offers nothing in the way of entertainment . A is almost overstating it . In the end , I was left asking myself what in the world Russ Tamblyn , Lawrence Tierney , and even Michael Berryman were doing in a stinker like this .
" Feed soda pop to the thirsty pigs . "	Yucca ? the perfect word to describe the experience that is The Beast of Yucca Flats . As I sit writing this , I cannot think of a single instance where The Beast of Yucca Flats is either entertaining or interesting and I cannot think of a single frame of film that looks as if someone with a shred of movie-making talent filmed it . I cannot understand how Coleman Francis found the funding to make these monstrosities he churned out in the 60s . As far as I'm concerned , Francis has to be in the conversation of worst directors of all-time . His movies are junk . Actually , calling The Beast of Yucca Flats a movie does a disservice to the definition . It's little more than a series of seemingly ugly , random shots of random people with the thinnest of plot threads imaginable holding it all together . The movie's too cheap to include on-screen dialogue . Everything is done either off-screen or through a voice over narration . And what narration it is ! It's as random as the images on screen . " Flag on the moon . How did it get there ? " " Nothing bothers some people , not even flying saucers . " " Twenty hours without rest and still no enemy . " Huh ? Did I miss something ? What's that gibberish got to do with anything ? As bad as Francis was as a director , he may have been even more offensive as a writer . Call me a masochist , but I have now seen The Beast of Yucca Flats three times . Fortunately for me , I watched the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version this time . Whether it's The Beast of Yucca Flats , Red Zone Cuba , or The Skydivers , the guys and gals on MST3K did some of their best and funniest work with the Coleman Francis directed movies . Hysterical stuff and worth a on my MST3K rating scale .
How desperate was Roddy McDowall ?	I honestly hate to rate anything a , but with Laserblast , I don't see any other choice . The movie is bad in every conceivable way . The special effects ? bad . The acting ? with a couple of exceptions , bad . The pace and direction ? bad . The script ? bad . Name anything that goes into the production of a movie and I'm sure I would tell you it's bad in Laserblast . And to top it all off , Laserblast is often quite dull . What a winning combination - bad production values in a boring movie ! The plot involves a deadly laser weapon left behind on Earth by a couple of extraterrestrials . A troubled young man named Billy ( Kim Milford ) finds the weapon and uses it to get even with those he feels have done him wrong . But the weapon has unexpected side effects as Billy is turned into a green-hued snarling monster . I said there were a couple of exceptions when it came to the bad acting in Laserblast . I'm not sure how the producers were able to do it , but they actually were able to get a couple of recognizable names and faces to appear in their movie . Keenan Wynn and Roddy McDowall must have been desperate to appear in this stinker . McDowall , in particular , phones in his 5 minutes of screen time . Other cast members I recognized included Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith , Dennis Burkley , and Ron Masak . Laserblast also features the first screen appearance of that barometer of bad movies , Eddie Deezen . With a cast like that , I would have expected much better than this .
What the . . . . .	Since I began what I'm calling my 2007 Mystery Science Theater 3000 Challenge , I've seen a ton of bad movies . And I seem to find myself writing at least once each week that the most recent abomination I've watched has to be one of the worst movies ever made . I'm really starting to sound like a broken record . So here I am with the latest assault on the senses ? Mighty Jack . I realize that Mighty Jack was taken from a Japanese television series and put together by one of Sandy Frank's flunkies , but I'm not rating the television show ? I'm rating the movie . And what a frustratingly confusing movie it is ! I'm really in the dark about most of what I've just seen . It doesn't make a lick of sense . Some bad guys named Q want to do something bad with a weapon that creates something called hot ice . Another group of people called Mighty Jack use their flying submarine to stop Q . That's about the best I can do . Like the turd of a plot , the rest of Mighty Jack is just as bad . The acting ? bad . The miniature work ( usually a strong point in a Japanese film of this type ) ? bad . The music ? bad ( and often inappropriate ) . The direction ? bad . Everything else you can name ? bad . As I said , I'm starting to sound like a broken record but Mighty Jack is seriously one very bad movie . MST3K Episode # 314 isn't as good as I had hoped . Usually , MST3K did some great work with the Japanese films they used . Here , other than the bits about the old guy smoking dope , there's not much that made me come close to laughing out loud . So I'll rate it a on my MST3K rating scale ? a wishy-washy average rating .
A lost film that should have stayed lost	It's almost impossible to find out anything about The Dead Talk Back . It was made in 1956 or 1957 ( depending on which sources you're look at ) and immediately shelved . As far as I can tell , it was never shown anywhere . I'm assuming that sometime around 1993 , Sinister Cinema found the film and somehow procured the rights to it and released it on video . I assume 1993 because that's the year listed on IMDb for the movies release . Somehow The Dead Talk Back came to the attention of Mystery Science Theater 3000 and was included on their Season 6 schedule . That's about it as far as the story behind The Dead Talk Back . If it weren't for MST3K , I doubt this thing would have more than 5 votes on IMDb . As for the movie , it's mind-numbingly awful . It's dull , uneventful , and a total waste of time . The acting ranges from over-the-top to , well , no acting at all . The special effects look like they came from a 1950s Radio Shack equivalent clearance sale . The plot attempts to include elements of horror , drama , mystery , science fiction , and every other genre you can name and fails miserably at each . There's so little entertainment value in The Dead Talk Back that the MST3K crew seemed to have trouble with it . They just didn't seem as " inspired " and , as a result , this is one of the weaker episodes of MST3K I've seen .
" Wuur-wilf ? You mean Joel thinks this thing is a wuur-wilf ? "	When I write one of these little reviews , there are certain words I try to avoid when describing a movie . Some words just don't seem appropriate . But when it comes to Werewolf , I'm going to break this rule . Werewolf has to be one of the stupidest movies I've ever seen . While watching Werewolf , it's difficult to fathom that an upright walking human with opposable thumbs and an I . Q . above that of a water sprinkler could have made something so inept . Werewolf's plot is an absolute unadulterated mess . You could give cameras to a band of poo throwing monkeys and end up with a more coherent movie . The actors are given some of the most inane dialogue ever recorded . And it doesn't help matters that three of the main characters ( Adrianna Miles being the worst offender ) sound more like they need to be in an ESL class than shooting a movie . If Joe Estevez emoting like there's no tomorrow is the highlight of the movie , you know you're in deep trouble . In short , Werewolf is a disaster . But , as bad as Werewolf admittedly is , coming up with a rating has proved more difficult that I imagined . Much of the movie is so unintentionally hilarious that I was entertained despite the multitude of problems . Take the film's continuity ( or lack thereof ) as an example . Watching actor Jorge Rivero's hair go from almost black and slicked back to slightly graying with less of a greasy look to brown with blond highlights and a feathered appearance all in a matter of 15 minutes is too funny . Or take the scenes where the werewolf transforms from an actor in makeup to a stuffed animal being shaken at the camera to someone in a bear suit all within 45 seconds ? it's laugh-out-loud , hold your sides so they don't split hysterical . But in the end , it's still a pathetic movie and a rating of seems somehow generous .
Where in the World is Cameron Mitchell ?	What was that ? I've seen a lot of bad movies in my time , but Enforcer from Death Row ranks right up there with the absolute worst . I wasn't expecting the second coming of Citizen Kane or anything , but come on - this thing is barely watchable . I would have probably never rented Enforcer from Death Row but for two things . First , the plot description I read on the Netflix website intrigued me . " T . L . Young ( Leo Fong ) sits imprisoned on death row , awaiting his date with the electric chair . But he's given a second chance when he's rescued by members of an international peacekeeping organization . In exchange for his life , however , Young is sent on a risky mission to stop a deadly group of criminals . This movie is jam-packed with action scenes featuring lethal ninjas , brutal tortures and thrilling car chases . " Sounds kinda cool . Unfortunately , the people responsible for this abomination had no concept of how to make a movie . I could cite any number of atrocious problems with Enforcer from Death Row ( like the bad acting or the weak special effects or the 75-watt bulb used to light the sets or the three Bunsen burners and test tube racks that made up the bacterial weapons lab or the laughable dubbing choices or the " thrilling " low-speed helicopter rescue or . . . ) , but I'll focus on the complete lack of continuity found in the movie . The most offensive example is a scene where a guy jumps off the roof of a building and miraculously lands in the ocean . And I don't mean right at the water's edge - he landed way out in at least 4 or more feet of water . How'd he do that ? Moments later , he's on a road stopping a passing car . The overhead shot shows the car , the road , and some vividly green farmland . What happened to the ocean ? What happened to the building ? Was there something in the movie about teleportation I missed ? It's just jaw-dropping ridiculous . The second reason I took a chance on Enforcer from Death Row was Cameron Mitchell . As a rule , I'll watch anything with Cameron Mitchell at least once . Even when the movie's bad , he's usually entertaining . I had read from another review that Mitchell's time was limited to a couple of minutes at the most . Well , not in my version of movie . I sat for almost an hour and a half and no Cameron Mitchell . What the . . . ? How can you put Mitchell's name in the credits and not deliver ? What a rip ! My best advice is to stay as far away from this turkey as you can . Even if you find a copy that includes Cameron Mitchell , it's still not worth it .
" Water ! Thirsty ! Sick man ! "	Do you know what's worse than a movie directed by Coleman Francis ? A movie directed by and starring Coleman Francis . I simply cannot imagine anyone watching this thing without the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary . I'm a fan of " bad " movies , but Red Zone Cuba would be too much on its own . A nonsensical plot involving a Cuban invasion , the worst acting imaginable , and editing that looks as if it were done by monkeys are just a few of the " highlights " . I defy anyone to find a frame of this movie that in some way isn't flawed . Every moment presents a new and even more amazing decent into putrid film-making . I cannot see giving this abomination anything higher than a . But , with the MST3K commentary , Red Zone Cuba becomes absolutely hysterical . I laughed so hard during the film's second half that I had tears in my eyes . I'll put this episode near the top of my list of favorites . Episode # 619 gets a on my MST3K rating scale .
" You're all useless and crazy . "	Robot Holocaust is about the lamest , most pathetic attempt at making a post-apocalyptic movie that I've seen . And I thought the Italians were the masters of wretched Mad Max wannabes . Some of those movies like Escape 2000 are positively brilliant in comparison with this piece of poo . The plot is nonsensical ? even with a narrator setting up every scene . And boy does it drag . Scene after scene with nothing of any interest happening . The special effects ( and I use the word " special " loosely ) consist of sock puppets . Yes , that's right ? sock puppets ! The acting is abysmal . Angelika Jager is in the running for worst performance I've ever seen . Sure , she's French or German or whatever ? but man is she bad . I cannot think of a single positive thing to say about the movie . So I'll stop there because ten sentences on this junk is about ten too many . However , and fortunately for me , I saw the MST3K version of Robot Holocaust . Some of the things that made the movie so bad helped make this MST3K episode a winner . For a season one episode , the riffs come fast and furious and hit their mark just about every time . On my MST3K rating scale , I give this episode a ? seek it out .
Inept is the word that comes to mind	Based on a lot of what I've read about Don't Go in the House , it seems to be a Love It or Hate It kind of movie . There appears to be very little middle ground . Put me in the Hate It category . If you take a look at some of the other stuff I've reviewed and enjoyed , you'll notice I do not automatically write-off a movie because of a low budget . Some of my favorites fall into the low-to-no budget category . But what those movies have that is sorely lacking in Don't Go in the House is talent . This is one of the most inept pieces of celluloid I've watched . It comes off as some kind of lame Psycho rip-off without anything approaching entertainment to be found in the entire runtime . It's dull , poorly acting , poorly directed , and poorly scripted . I feel like I've just flushed the $11 . 98 I paid for the DVD down the commode .
" For the last time . . . I command you , in the name of all that is evil . . . budge ! Budge ! "	Basically , you can take the comments I recently wrote on Lou Ferrigno's two Hercules movies and apply them to his Sinbad outing . If possible , however , Sinbad of the Seven Seas is even more of a snooze-fest than those two films . I don't know when I've been so utterly bored by a movie . I could do the usual and mention the cheap special effects , the ludicrous plot , the laughable dialogue , or the really bad acting , but it seems a bit like piling on . Suffice it to say that everything ( and I mean everything ) about Sinbad of the Seven Seas is about as bad as you'll see . One thing I will mention in a little detail is the music . The score was done on a cheap synthesizer and lacks any depth or soul . Someone named Dov Seltzer is credited as the " composer " . You could have fooled me ! After watching the opening credits , I was sure the old Super Nintendo system would get the music credits .
The Worst	- Over the years , I've seen my fair share of really bad movies . But none can compare with Prime Evil . I bow down before thee oh King of Garbage . It's the worst of the worst . I literally despise this movie with every fiber of my being . - The story , although it doesn't really matter , starts with a 13th Century monk who turns to Satanism in exchange for immortality . He slaughters the other monks who refuse to join him . Switch to present day and the monk , now in the persona of Father Seaton ( get it , Seaton / Satan - oh how clever ) , oversees a large cult of followers . Each is also promised immortality in 13 year blocks if they are willing to give Father Seaton a " pure " blood relation for sacrifice to Satan . The 13 year period for one member is coming to an end . He has a " pure " granddaughter that would make an ideal candidate for sacrifice . But the Church and the police are onto the cult's activities . Can they stop Father Seaton before another person dies ? - Every aspect of this movie is bad . I've racked my brain and I cannot come up with one positive thing to say . The acting is terrible , the story is lame , the muppet Satan is ridiculous , and the whole thing is a complete and utter bore . And none of it is bad in that so bad it's good sort of way . I defy anyone to find a scrap of entertainment in Prime Evil .
Michael " Paycheck " Caine strikes again !	As a point of reference , I don't rate every other movie I see a . Of the 1 , 005 movies I've bothered to rate over the past few years , I've only given 20 of them a . It takes a " special " movie can join the ranks of Prime Evil , The Creeping Terror , and Curse of the Swamp Creature . The Swarm is one of those " special " movies . Watching The Swarm is something of an endurance test . At one point , I felt like I had been sitting and watching for days . I checked the counter and discovered I had only seen 76 minutes ? I still had another 80 minutes left to go . So what went wrong ? In a word - everything . As I've already indicated , The Swarm is dull and tedious . If I'm ever forced to watch this movie again , I can only hope it's the 116 minute version and not the 156 minute director's cut . In addition , the characters do and say the most unrealistic things . Take the movies supposed hero played by Michael Caine and the General played by Richard Widmark . Every conversation these two have is full of absolute nonsense and done in volumes usually reserved for football games . The fact that these two NEVER attempt to work together to accomplish anything is ridiculous . Or , take the fact that Caine's character , who has been appointed by the White House to head up the operation , spends more time tracking down a 10 year-old runaway than he does finding a solution to the bee problem . Unrealistic . The Swarm also features a couple of the most inane love story subplots I've seen . The first features Caine and Katharine Ross who never seem to get beyond admitting they " like " each other . How old are these people ? 12 ? The second is the senior citizen love triangle that goes nowhere and has no real purpose . It's like watching a bad episode of " The Love Boat " . Finally , some of the acting is downright atrocious . Caine and Ross are good actors when given decent material . But in The Swarm , Caine appears to be in it solely for the paycheck and Ross acts as if she realizes how bad it is and just wants out . Picking the negatives out of The Swarm is like shooting fish in a barrel ? it's impossible to miss . And I haven't even discussed the plot ? killer African bees threaten the Southwest . Not a bad idea , but the execution in The Swarm is the worst .
Why ?	Why ? Why make a movie like The Starfighters ? My initial thought was that it might be some sort of " wave the flag , isn't the military great , wouldn't you like to join the Air Force " movie . But that can't be right . This thing is too deadly dull to inspire anyone to run out and enlist . Similar movies from the 40s , even though they were often as sappy as could be , at least provided some entertainment with their propaganda . That's not the case here . I defy anyone to find anything remotely entertaining in The Starfighters . I suppose there is some curiosity value in seeing a young B-1 Bob Dornan attempting to act , but I can't imagine watching this thing just to see the former congressman . I also defy anyone to watch The Starfighters without the aid of MST3K . Even these guys ran out of steam during the second , extended , monotonous , in-flight refueling scene . Usually , regardless of how bad a movie is , there are those who find something to enjoy and write reviews on IMDb supporting some facet of the movie . That doesn't appear to be true with The Starfighters . I went through both pages of reviews on IMDb and didn't notice anyone with a positive comment or a rating higher than a for the Starfighters . It's just that bad ! That reminds me , I haven't even mentioned the plot . But there's a reason . The plot in The Starfighters doesn't really matter . The movie is 20 % story and 80 % stock footage of the Air Force's F-104 Starfighter . Can you make a movie entirely of stock footage ? Director Will Zens sure gave it a go with The Starfighters .
An abomination of film-making	I see a lot of " Worst " movie lists on IMDb . If I look at one of these lists and don't see Hobgoblins , I can't take it seriously . Hobgoblins represents a standard in bad movie-making that all other bad movies should be measured against . Personally , I don't have a " Worst " list , but if I did , you can bet that Hobgoblins would be in the top three alongside Curse of the Swamp Creature and Prime Evil . I defy anyone to sit down and watch this trifecta of crap back-to-back-to-back . . I've now had the misfortune of seeing Hobgoblins three or four times in my life . And , I can't think of one positive thing to say about it . Everything about the movie is pathetic . The horror elements aren't in the least horrific and the comedy elements are in the least comedic . Nothing works . Why am I not surprised to discover that the four lead " actors " ( and I use that term very loosely ) have one other movie credit between them ? I suppose a better question would be just how was director Rick Sloane able to find a job directing anything after helming this abomination of film-making ? The special effects consist of the director throwing stuffed animals at the cast . There are more continuity errors in Hobgoblins than in a dozen Ed Wood movies . The plot is utterly ridiculous and would have made more sense had my three year old written it . In short , Hobgoblins is a truly painful movie experience . Of the three or four times I've seen Hobgoblins , this was my second with the MST3K commentary . And even though Hobgoblins is one of the worst movies I've ever seen , it makes for one of the best MST3K episodes . Hilarious !
And I thought Hercules ( 1983 ) was bad .	The Adventures of Hercules has to be one of the lamest excuses for a movie I've yet run across . You would have to look far and wide to find anything that approaches the level of ineptness on display in this movie . Acting ? Bad . Editing ? Bad . Direction ? Bad . Special Effects ? Bad and Laughable . Plot ? Bad . Lighting ? Bad . Cinematography ? Bad . Costume Design ? Bad and Silly . Everything Else ? Bad . Watching The Adventures of Hercules is about as enjoyable as a root canal . Even for a fan of bad movies , it's a real endurance test . This is one for either masochists or Lou Ferrigno completists ( if any exist ) . Eight things I learned from watching The Adventures of Hercules : 1 . If you don't have the budget for real special effects , rotoscope a scene from the previous movie . It will look great - trust me . 2 . When on a quest to recover Zeus ' thunderbolts , take time for frequent stops to oil-up you body . It worked for Ferrigno and his two Amazon companions . 3 . Any sword fight , use of magic , and just about all other day to day activities in ancient Greece created a sound very similar to a game of Pac Man or Asteroids . 4 . Some of the ancient Greek gods dressed like extras from Star Wars . 5 . If you need to pad your crappy movie's runtime , extend the title sequence by adding Star Trek style credits and throw in some overly grandiose music . It also helps if you've got a previous movie to pull scenes from . 6 . Fight scenes move along much smoother if the bad guys attack Hercules one at a time . 7 . William Berger did anything for money . 8 . I didn't think it was possible , but The Adventures of Hercules makes the first film , Hercules ( 1983 ) , look like an Academy Award winner .
My Eyes , My Eyes ! ! !	- In the years I've been visiting the IMDb website , I've rated a few movies a . But there are a handful of these that stand out as being the absolute worst of the worst . Included in this very select group are The Creeping Terror , The Hollywood Strangler Meets the Skid Row Slasher , Jason X , and the monstrosity known as Curse of the Swamp Creature . I defy any rational , sane human being to find a scrap of entertainment in this festering pile of poo . To say that the acting , special effects , plot , sets , direction , and dialogue are bad is an understatement . The film practically beats you over the head with its ineptitude . - And can someone explain to me what John Agar was thinking ? Sure , he made some cheesy sci-fi / horror movies , but none approach the hideous nature of Curse of the Swamp Creature . I can only assume that Agar was going through a period of chemical dependency at the time he agreed to appear in this thing . Fortunately , he recovered .
Film-making at its most abysmal	Rocket Attack U . S . A . is film-making at its most abysmal . There is absolutely nothing positive I can come up with to say about the movie . Both artistically and technically the movie is horrible . When you watch something this bad you at least hope to have a laugh or two along the way . Rocket Attack U . S . A . is so deathly dull that it's not even " so bad it's good " . The movie seems to have been made as a propaganda piece in the wake of the successful launch of a Russian Sputnik satellite . But I cannot imagine this movie did anything to get the people behind a U . S . missile program . I'm not sure how much anyone should expect from a no-budget movie with Barry Mahon as director . Take a look at some of his other directorial credits - The Adventures of Busty Brown ( 1964 ) , Hot Skin , Cold Cash ( 1965 ) , or Fanny Hill Meets Dr . Erotico ( 1967 ) . Is there any real surprise that Rocket Attack U . S . A . is as bad as it is ?
I wasn't prepared for what I've just seen .	WARNING ? Watching Crocodile could prove hazardous to your physical , mental , and emotional health . Having just finished watching Crocodile , I'm almost dumbfounded by the ineptitude I've witnessed . I had been warned by a couple of trusted friends that the movie was bad , but nothing could prepare for what I've just seen . To call Crocodile bad would be an understatement an an insult to other bad movies . It's one of the worst examples of movie-making I've ever seen . The plot , as best I could discern , involves a man whose entire family is killed by a giant crocodile . The man vows revenge . Sound familiar ? While even the worst of the other " Man vs . Nature " movies I've seen handle this scenario with a little class , originality , or a minimum of technical skill , Crocodile is pathetic in comparison . Acting ? as bad as I've seen . Music ? never appropriate to the image . Editing ? sloppy is too nice a word . Special effects ? what's that ? Plot ? see Jaws . Cinematography ? a monkey could have framed the shots better . Crocodile excels in poorly constructed miniatures , random shots of people and objects that have no bearing on the plot , and an overall incoherence that makes the movies Ed Wood and Al Adamson seem like masterpieces . Consider yourself warned . .
Simply Awful	- Such as it is , I'll try to give a brief outline of the movie . During a photo session , the photographer strangles his model . Meanwhile , a bookstore owner stalks and knives a wino . Later , the same photographer strangles another model . The bookstore owner stalks and knives another wino . This continues until the two meet . Without a word , they seem to fall in love . But what kind of relationship can two serial killers have ? Apparently , not much of one . - The Hollywood Strangler Meets the Skid Row Slasher is the perfect example of inept film-making . If you're idea of a good time is watching people you don't know kill other people you don't know , this may be the movie for you . This basic premise is repeated over and over and over . Eventually , I just wanted to throw something at the screen . How about a little explanation as to who these people are and why they are doing what they do ? Unfortunately , concepts like a plot don't get in the way of the killing . - Steckler filmed this movie without any dialogue . He later added some voice overs at the insistence of his distributor . Dialogue may have helped , although I doubt it . - If you really must see this movie , watch it with Joe Bob Briggs commentary . There are a few laugh out loud moments . Otherwise , I found it impossible to get through even the first 10 minutes .
It's so deathly dull that it's not even unintentionally funny	If you're looking for entertainment , look elsewhere . Here's what you'll find in C . B . Hustlers ? a dozen or so vans , C . B . radios , and three decent looking women playing hookers . What you won't find is a plot , acting ability , production values , comedy , or much of anything interesting . In short , C . B . Hustlers is about as bad a movie as you can find . And it's so deathly dull that it's not even unintentionally funny . If you're idea of a good movie consists of long shots of a half dozen vans parked in a field with a bunch of unknown people walking around drinking beer , then you're in luck . About 15 minutes of C . B . Hustlers short runtime is made up of just such a shot . Entertaining ? I don't think so .
What was that ?	- A group of Nazi soldiers are gunned down by the locals in a small French village . Deciding they must hide the bodies as quickly as possible , the dead Nazis are thrown into the local lake . Twelve years later , several young females either go missing or turn up dead . Could it be the legend the locals call " The Ghost of the Lake " ? The Nazis have come back as zombies to seek their revenge on the people of the village . - There are a lot of bad movies , but Zombie Lake must surely be near the top of the heap . To start with , the pacing is non-existent . The movie gets off to a snails pace and goes downhill from there . By the time the flashback sequence rolls around , things come to a grinding halt . The acting is just as bad . I would be amazed to learn that anyone other than Howard Vernon ever had much of a career in acting . - There are scenes in Zombie Lake that will amaze and astound . Some of the more memorable moments include : Zombies with ever changing skin color . When the zombies first emerge from the lake , the skin color is almost normal . Within a matter of minutes , the zombies are a fluorescent green . In some scenes , the whole head and neck are green . In the blink of an eye , only the face is green . Zombies have feelings too . The sight of the love sick zombie staring hopefully at the house of his former lover is almost too much to take . Zombies make good fathers . As if the love sick zombie wasn't enough , imagine a green faced zombie walking down the street holding his little girl's hand . Boots are fascinating . The movie gives us several minutes of shots of zombie boots stumbling along a path . At first , they go left . Next , they go right . The excitement was almost more than I could take . 12 year old girls are the best defense against zombies . Of course no one in the village except the little girl has the slightest idea of how to kill the zombies . Zombies pull knives on each other . Watching two zombies roll around on the ground as they try to stab each other is one of the most amazingly ridiculous sights I've ever seen . They should have asked the 12 year old girl about how to fight a zombie . There's so much more , but you get the idea . - The ineptitude on display is amazing . But , then again , the movie was directed by Jean Rollin and co-written by Jesus Franco . I don't know why anyone would expect any better . - Even though I've rated Zobmie Lake a , I still recommend the movie to anyone with a stomach for bad cinema . This movie really must be seen to be believed .
Avoid at all cost !	After watching this " movie " I did what I usually do ? I looked it up on IMDb . When I saw the rating , I had to check to make sure I was looking at the right " movie " . 4 . 4 ! Come on ! That's about 3 . 4 points too high . I have seen a lot of bad movies in my time , but Midnight certainly ranks with the very worst . As far as I'm concerned , it's not fit for human consumption . It comes off as some kind of Psycho / Texas Chainsaw Massacre wannabe but fails miserably at every level . I'm not even sure I can call Midnight a " movie " . I suppose that if your definition of a " movie " is limited to a series of moving pictures , then it qualifies . But my definition of a " movie " includes such luxuries as a plot , acting , and some level of entertainment ? none of which are found here . I cannot think of one kind thing to say about this " movie " . In fact , I should end here as I've already given Midnight far too much of my time .
Forget Manos and Plan 9 - This is the Grandaddy of Bad Movies	- A few days ago , I wrote that The Skydivers was one of the two or three worst movies I had ever seen . Well , I had completely forgotten about The Creeping Terror . This is the Grandaddy of Bad Movies . Forget what you've heard about films like Manos or Plan 9 - there not even in the same ballpark with this pile of llama dung . The ineptitude on display is mind boggling . - The story concerns an alien monster who has landed on Earth and begins feeding on the populace . The monster resembles an old , large carpet with five or six guys underneath . The monster has no arms , so he must get his mouth ( I suppose it could be called a mouth ) close to his prey in order to eat them . In one of the most ridiculous scenes ever filmed , the female victim can be seen actually climbing up into the creatures mouth . The monster moves slower than any other creature I've ever seen . The creature from The Blob is greased lightening compared with this monster . And the people in the movie seem willing to oblige the slow moving carpet . They look absolutely silly just sitting and waiting to be consumed . - One of my favorite scenes is the face-off between the Shag Monster and the Army ( here , the Army consists of six guys in the back of a pickup truck ) . As the trained soldiers move in with their toy guns at the ready , they are careful to stay in a very tight pack . Just when they least suspect it , the monster charges ( at the breakneck speed of 0 . 5 mph ) and crushes the tightly packed soldiers . What drama ! - The movie is not without lessons for those who pay attention . For some inexplicable reason , in the middle of the film we are treated to a 10 minute lecture on how life changes after marriage . The narration is straight out of one of those 1950s school films . - As bad as this movie is , and it just may be the worst I've ever seen , this is actually my second viewing of The Creeping Terror . I'm a glutton for this kind of stuff .
" Three new bodies . Fresh , live , young bodies . "	I see that the movie I've watched twice under the name The Atomic Brain is actually known as Monstrosity . Monstrosity , huh ? Well , it fits . I can't think of a more appropriate name for this dog of a movie than Monstrosity . When it comes to bad movies , this one is scrapping the bottom of the barrel . Everything about it is just so Gawd awful . I could run down the list ( production values , acting , lighting , etc . ) but there's really no point . Name any aspect of movie making and The Atomic Brain ( or Monstrosity if you prefer ) fails miserably at it . In short , this is truly one of the five or so worst movies I've ever seen . Many of the reviews on IMDb call The Atomic Brain a " good " bad movie . I'm as big a fan of bad movies as anyone , but this one doesn't work for me . The bad movies I enjoy are at least fun . This one is too dour for me to have any fun with . As I noted , this is the second time I've seen The Atomic Brain . Fortunately for me , I watched the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version this time around . And while it made the experience much more palatable , it's not one of the better MST3K episodes I've seen . The movie is so bad it puts a damper on the comedy . But I'll be generous and give it a on my MST3K rating scale ? a whishy-washy average rating .
" Are the meek inheriting the earth ? "	If the 80s were anything as far as movies goes , it was a decade of imitation . How many imitators did movies like Halloween and Conan " inspire " in the 80s ? Another influential movie that would see a number of imitators was The Road Warrior . From Escape from the Bronx to 2019 : After the Fall of New York , there were scores of mainly Italian post-apocalyptic rip-offs . Some good , some bad , but Warrior of the Lost World is easily one of the worst of the bunch . Plainly put , it's a dreadful movie . Forget about a plot ? the movie doesn't have one . Characters we don't know ( much less care to know ) drive around on ridiculously modified motorcycles , cars , and trucks shooting at each other while dressed like some sort of Cyndi Lauper / New Wave wannabes . It's pathetic . Warrior of the Lost World " stars " Robert Ginty , Donald Pleasence , and Fred Williamson . Ginty is The Rider ? a character with marbles in his mouth who spends most of the movie with his nausea-inducing , talking motorcycle . One of the lone highlights of the movie is when the motorcycle gets crushed by a rather large truck ( not to fear ? much to my dismay , the motorcycle reappears later in the movie ) . Pleasence is obviously in it for a paycheck . By the looks of things , his scenes were filmed separately and probably shot in a day at the most . Williamson does what he always seems to do ? make goofy faces at the camera . His character , like the rest of the movie , is utterly pointless . There's really only one way to stomach something as bad as Warrior of the Lost World ? catch the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of the movie . It's not the best episode , but it sure beats watching the movie on its own . While I've rated the movie a , I'll give this episode a on my MST3K rating scale .
" What a desolate , forsaken place . "	Scientists discover a new planet and decide to send an exploratory rocket with four scientists ( two men and two women ? how convenient ) aboard . The planet closely resembles Earth with its breathable atmosphere , lush vegetation , and plethora of wildlife . The place seems simply ideal ? that is , until they visit an island in the middle of a nearby lake . The island's inhabitants aren't as cute and cuddly as the lemur they've adopted and named Joe . The island is home to dinosaurs ! Can our band of intrepid scientists escape the island before they become a snack ? One of the things I enjoy about 1950s sci-fi is that regardless of how bad or ridiculous a movie might be , these movies usually have a certain naive charm about them . That's not the case here . King Dinosaur has nothing that could remotely be called " charm " . It's an abysmal mess . Even by Bert I . Gordon's standards it's a wretched movie ( and if you're unfamiliar with Gordon's other works , those are some pretty low standards ) . The plot is pathetic . The acting is plain out pitiful . The depiction of the " scientists " and " science " is ludicrous . The special effects are a laugh-out-loud joke . The staged lizard / iguana / alligator fights are reprehensible . At least half the movie is composed of stock footage . And the movie is such a technical mess that I'm surprised this bunch of bozos was even able to get it on film . I'm racking my brain , but I've got absolutely nothing positive to say . But the most ridiculous moment in King Dinosaur ( and one of the most ridiculous moments in movie history ) comes about 5 minutes before the movie's end . Before the four " scientists " leave the island , one of them says , " I brought the atom bomb . I think it's a good time to use it . " Huh ? What did he just say ? You mean he's been carrying an atomic weapon around like a loaf of bread ? Carrying around food , water , or . . . oh I don't know . . . scientific equipment might make sense , but an atom bomb ? I could even see carrying some sort of small hand-held weapon for self defense , but a nuclear warhead ? It's got to be one of the most ridiculous moments ever put on film .
" Chicken . Corn . Green peppers . Chili . Onions . . . . "	For whatever reason , I have now seen Track of the Moon Beast on two different occasions ? once with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary and once without . Should I decide to waste another 90 or so minutes for a third viewing , there's really only one viewing option ? watch the MST3K version . Track of the Moon Beast is painful . The idiocy on display can actually start to hurt without the MST3K commentary to take the edge off . From Native American anthropologist Johnny Longbow and his stew recipe to the terry-cloth hot-pants worn by Donna Leigh Drake , Track of the Moon Beast is filled with a nonsensical plot , uninteresting characters , bad acting , poor special effects , brainless dialogue , and bottom of the barrel sound , cinematography , and lighting . You don't get much worse than this . One of my " favorite " moments occurs when old Johnny Longbone is relating the Native American legend of the Lizard-Man to the sheriff . He has an overhead projector with a number of transparencies he uses to illustrate his story . Well , Longbritches ' drawings look about like something you would see drawn in my son's Pre-K class . They're so ridiculous looking ! It cracks me up every time I see it .
As bad as a movie can get	I don't know that it's really fair for me to write anything on Oasis of the Zombies as I've never actually seen the entire film . I've tried to watch it at least four different times , but , I can't seem to get through it to the end . Why ? Oasis of the Zombies is such a complete and utter mess that I either shut it off about half way through because I just can't take it anymore or I end up falling asleep out of total boredom . Even by Jess Franco standards , Oasis of the Zombies makes no sense plot-wise and it's as dull as dishwater . The acting is atrocious . The special effects are so bad they go beyond being laughable . Oasis of the Zombies has to be one of the worst excuses for a movie I've ever had the misfortune of attempting to watch . Maybe I'll give it another go at some point in the future , but I rather doubt it . I don't want to come across as one of those people who dismisses Franco as a no talent hack . That's just not true . There are some Franco films I really enjoy ( Venus in Furs , The Diabolical Dr . Z , and Night of the Skull to name just a few ) , so it's not like I don't " get " Franco . I just can't imagine even the most vocal and ardent of Franco supporters enjoying this trash .
Someone wake me when it's over	- A newlywed couple move into the home of the husband's dead former wife . It's not long before the new wife begins to have the feeling that someone doesn't want her in the house . She sees skulls all around the house . But when the husband investigates , he can't find anything . Is someone trying to drive her back to the asylum that she was recently discharged from ? Or , is the ghost of the dead wife trying to get the new wife out of her house ? - This is the first time that I've watched The Screaming Skull without the assistance of the MST3K crew . And , it will in all likelihood be the last time I watch it this way . Can you say dull ? I'm not talking ordinary dull - I'm talking watching grass grow dull . There are great stretches of the movie where nothing happens . The screen could have gone blank and I would have gotten as much entertainment out of it . The characters drone on and on with the most monotonous conversations imaginable . The Screaming Skull could probably be marketed as a sleep aide . - The actors don't help matters much . Most of them deliver lines with the conviction normally reserved for a grade school play . I haven't looked it up , but I would be shocked to find that anyone associated with this movie ever appeared in anything of cinematic value . I won't even go into the script the actors are given to work with . Let's just say that the characters are given some of the most idiotic lines ever uttered on film . - You've been warned ! Either avoid this one at all costs or , at least , seek out the MST3K version .
A complete waste of celluloid	If you've read the background of Monster A Go-Go then you know that the movie almost didn't exist . Hackmeister Bill Rebane started filming the movie in 1961 . A shortage of cash forced him to shelf the project . A few years later , fellow B-filmmaker Herschel Gordon Lewis was looking for a film to complete a double-bill and bought Rebane's unfinished movie . Whether he added new material or only re-edited what was already there is up to conjecture , but the result was Monster A Go-Go . I've seen a slew of bad movies in my life , but only a very few of them are as bad as Monster A Go-Go . Over the years , I've rated several films a ( Laserblast , Midnight , and Invasion of the Star Creatures for example ) , but this one joins that special fraternity of films that make-up the worst of the worst . Monster A Go-Go takes a place beside the likes of Prime Evil and The Starfighters as a complete waste of celluloid . Monster A Go-Go is a total bore and features nothing that remotely resembles entertainment . When a film loses a viewer's interest 30 seconds into its runtime , you know you're in trouble . And if possible , Monster A Go-Go takes this incredibly putrid start and builds on it . The movie actually becomes increasingly pointless and dull throughout its 70 minutes as it limps toward one of the worst endings ever put to a movie . The movie doesn't really end as much as Rebane or Lewis or whoever just stopped filming . If only they would have stopped filming about 70 minutes earlier . This was another MST3K viewing for me . Normally , I get a kick out of MST3K regardless of how bad the movie is . But Monster A Go-Go is just so bad that it really puts a drag on everything . I give them credit for attempting to make the movie in any way worthwhile , but it seems to have been an impossible task . I give this episode of MST3K a - find another episode to add to the top of your " to see " list .
" What an awesomely disgusting sight ! "	Move along people ! Nothing to see here ! And I mean that ? quite literally . Unless you're some sort of dyed in the wool Lana Clarkson fan , I sincerely doubt you'll find a whole lot about Barbarian Queen II to enjoy . Other than a couple scenes where Lana gets topless ( one , where she mud wrestles for the leadership of the rebel force and , two , where she's tied to the rack ) you can safely fast forward through the magical hokum , the poorly done fight scenes , and the failed attempts at acting on the part of the entire cast without missing anything . Add to that a plot that's not worth mentioning ( so I won't ) , awkwardly choreographed action sequences , and a complete lack of anything remotely entertaining . In fact , I can't think of a single redeeming feature of Barbarian Queen II . Overall , 30 or so seconds of a topless Lana Clarkson vs . wasting 80 minutes of your life ? not a very good ratio if you ask me .
Gawd Awful	- Coleman Francis ' film , The Skydivers , is perhaps the . . . Oh , what's the point ? It's one of the two or three worst movies I've ever seen . I really try hard to not rate movies , but with junk like this , it's hard not to vote a " 1 " . - Almost everything about The Skydivers is abysmal . The acting , story , dialogue , effects , and anything else you can think of are ridiculous . Most any elementary school class could come up with a better production with more sophisticated production values . - One scene worth noting is the dance scene . Just when you think The Skydivers has scraped the bottom of the barrel , it succeeds in drilling a hole right through the bottom . Out of the blue , a dance party erupts on the airport runway . It really must be seen to be believed . Hysterical !
Pass the caffeine	Colossus and the Headhunters should come with a warning similar to those found on bottles of medicine . Inducing drowsiness or sleep is an understatement - leaving the viewer comatose is more like it . Colossus and the Headhunters is the very definition of a dull movie . Every single moment is a complete and utter bore . Erupting volcanoes and battles between armies have all the excitement of taking a bottle of sleeping pills . The actors certainly don't help matters any . The present all the life and vitality of a tree stump . Kirk Morris as Colossus ( actually he's called Maciste ( pronounced ma-cheese-steak ) in the movie ) is the worst offender . You would have to search far and wide to find a more unappealing , do-nothing hero . He's even late for the film's " climatic " battle scene . If you must watch Colossus and the Headhunters , make sure you've just had a good nap , load-up on the caffeine , and grab some toothpicks to help hold your eyes open . You're gonna need it .
Deathly Dull	Two country singers and their manager are on their way to Nashville when they decide to find a place to stop and spend the night . They find a deserted mansion that seems to nicely fit the bill . But this mansion may be haunted . And if it's not , it certainly is the hideout of a group of baddies up to no good . Will the country crooners make through the night to live their dreams in Music City ? What do you get when you mix a supposed haunted house , loads of country music , aging horror icons , and some ridiculous attempts at humor ? In the case of Hillbillys in a Haunted House , you get this mess of a movie . To begin with , the " haunted house " is about as threatening looking as my neighbor's house . And by the time the spooks show up , who cares ? I know I had lost interest long before any ghost made an appearance . And could the country music be any more dull ? If I weren't already a non-fan of country music , I certainly would be after watching this movie . As I watched , I really felt sorry for Carradine , Chaney , and especially Rathbone . To have to appear in a disaster like this . If it weren't for Joi Lansing , I would have turned Hillbillys in a Haunted House off about halfway through . It's that bad !
There's nothing much more frightening than the sight of a ludicrously large Nemo .	For a movie about a race against the clock to rescue a group of scientists trapped in an undersea research facility that's been hit by an earthquake , The Neptune Factor is incredibly dull . The problem is that for most of the movie , nothing happens . Ernest Borgnine ( who I'll give a little credit as he does his best with this snoozer of a script ) , Ben Gazzara , and company spend most of the movie on a slow motion tour of the ocean floor looking for their missing colleagues . Garzzara is the worst , showing the same kind of emotion usually reserved for everyday , mundane tasks like doing the laundry or grocery shopping . You'd hardly know from his demeanor that the lives of three people rest in his hands . And when something does finally happen the special effects are so ridiculous looking that the movie losses any credibility it might have had . The " giant " sea creatures the rescuers run into are little more than normal salt water aquarium fish filmed with a zoom lens and a bad looking miniature of the submarine . That's right ? The Neptune Factor looks like it was filmed in someone's home aquarium . A giant clown fish ? oooooh , how scary ! There's nothing much more frightening than the sight of a ludicrously large Nemo . To say I was disappointed by The Neptune Factor would be a gross understatement . A good cast is put to waste with nothing to do . In the end , I've got to rate this one a .
What an unmitigated mess !	What an unmitigated mess ! I know others have said something similar , but I had the same thought while watching The Wild World of Batwoman ? it's like someone took portions from a half-dozen bad movies and randomly edited them together . It takes real talent to make something this bad . There is no comprehensible plot to speak of . The special effects are nonexistent . The Wild World of Batwoman takes acting to a new low . The comedy sequences are totally lame . In short , there's not one redeeming quality to be found in this movie . It's one of the first movies I've seen that the MST3K crew had trouble with . If it's as bad as I say , why haven't I rated it any lower ? There are a couple of moments that save this one from the dreaded " 1 " rating . First , there are a few scenes that despite themselves are unintentionally hilarious . As I said , the scenes that were meant to be funny fail miserably . But some of the scenes meant to be serious are laugh-out-loud funny . Second , any movie with this much dancing by scantily clad women deserves at least a point or two .
Mean and Ugly	My , oh my ! I feel like I've entered one of the seven layers of Hell . Barn of the Naked Dead is one of the worst examples of " filmmaking " I've run into . A serious critique of the movie would be ridiculous and making fun of the technical aspects of the film or much of the acting is so easy that I'll not even bother . Instead , I'll limit this to a brief comment on the plot ? or lack thereof . Barn of the Naked Dead literally has no coherent plot . A few story ideas pieced together with scenes of unnecessary violence do not make for a plot . Take a look at the kind of films I like and you'll quickly see that I'm not squeamish when it comes to violence on screen , but it needs a context . Otherwise , it's just mean and ugly . Without a plot , the violence in Barn of the Naked Dead feels like that ? mean and ugly . If Barn of the Naked Dead has one saving grace that keeps it from sinking to the absolute bottom of the heap , it's Andrew Prine . While I'll never understand some of his professional decisions , he always comes across to me as a very capable and interesting actor . I've yet to be disappointed with him , just some of the movies he made .
In short , it's a disaster .	Lewis B . Moffitt is a medical student who seems to have it all . But what many don't know is that Lewis has an irrational but deep-seeded fear of the dark . He came by his fear quite honestly following his grandfather's wake which was held in his family's home . His mother ( in a failed attempt to win " Mother of the Year " ) threatened Lewis that his dead grandfather would return from the dead to do him harm if he didn't go to bed ! Well , as part of his fraternity initiation , Lewis has to sneak into a mausoleum to retrieve the ring from the cadaver the young med students had earlier seen autopsied . Of course Lewis has to do this at night ? in the dark ? of which he's deathly afraid . You get the idea . Ring of Terror is the kind of movie that could have better been told as something like a Twilight Zone episode . There's nowhere near enough material to fill even the comparatively short 71 minute runtime . But the makers of the movie seem content to pad the film with something akin to one of those 1950s era educational films on dating with names like " Dating : Do's and Don'ts " or " Choosing Your Marriage Partner " . Ring of Terror has that kind of " realism " and " excitement " . Getting past the padding to the rest of Ring of Terror : the acting is bad ; the actors are far too old to be convincing in their roles ; the movie relies on too many " fat " jokes ; the ending is predictable after 5 minutes of the movie ; and the opening and closing bits that sandwich the " action " are annoying . In short , it's a disaster . But as bad a movie as Ring of Terror is , it makes for a very entertaining episode of MST3K . I found myself laughing out loud on more than one occasion . So while I may only rate the movie a , Ring of Terror gets a on my MST3K rating scale .
" The formula they all laughed at - - Z sub A , A sub T . . . ZaAt ! "	Even though I watch a lot of bad movies , it's been awhile since I've seen a plot that made less sense than the one found in Blood Waters of Dr . Z . For reasons known only to him , Dr . Kurt Leopold decides the planet would be a better place if fish were to take over . After a rather lengthy voice-over soliloquy on the subject , he dunks himself into a tank and comes out transformed into some sort of poorly designed would-be fish-creature . With his handy spray bottle filled with I'm not sure what , he sets out on his mission to lead the catfish in a takeover of the Earth . Before you can say " carp " , Dr . Leopold's plan seems to be forgotten in favor of finding a mate he can transform into a would-be fish-creature . ( Actually , I'm of the opinion that getting laid was Dr . Leopold's goal the whole time . Forget about the nonsense of a master race of fish . ) As the bodies start to pile up , old fish-boy soon has some scientists and the local sheriff on his tail . Can they put a stop to Dr . Leopold and his plans for world domination ? Whether you call the movie Blood Waters of Dr . Z or Zaat or ZaAt or Attack of the Swamp Creatures , it really doesn't matter . Crap by any name is still crap . The movie is Grade A bottom-of-the-barrel film-making . As I pointed out , the plot is ridiculous . The technical aspects of the films like lighting , sound , special effects , editing , etc . are beyond bad . The direction is amateurish at best . And as for the acting , I'm not in the least surprised to discover that no one involved ever did anything other than appear in this monstrosity ( okay , one guy does have one other credit , but that's it ) . Quite honestly , my rating of a is incredibly generous . I'm sure there's a reason I didn't give Blood Waters of Dr . Z the dreaded , but sitting here 12 hours after watching the movie , I can't come up with a valid explanation . One of the comments on IMDb bemoans the fact that the majority of people rating and reviewing Blood Waters of Dr . Z have only seen the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version ( that's how I saw it also ) . The comment states that the real movie has 30 or so minutes edited out by the MST3K crew and the movie shouldn't be judged unless someone has seen the whole thing . Well why in God's name would I want to see 30 more minutes of this trash ! The time I've already devoted to Blood Waters of Dr . Z is above and beyond what it deserves . Just be glad more people haven't seen that additional footage as I'm guessing the rating would be even lower if they had .
Even by Franco's standards , this movie is a bore	When things go bad in a Franco film , they really go bad . Even by Franco's standards , Nightmares Come at Night is a total bore . The plot deals with a woman who may be going insane . She has reoccurring dreams of killing people and cannot distinguish what's real and what's part of her dreams . But the plot is secondary to Nightmares Come at Night's primary purpose ? show as much pointless nudity as possible . Most of the movie consists of Diana Lorys walking around with little or nothing on . I felt like screaming " Do Something ! " at the screen . And it doesn't help that it's filmed in the most unimaginable way possible . To make matters worse , Franco introduces a diamond heist subplot in the final third of the movie and gives it little more than lip service . It adds nothing to the film . When you pick up the DVD , you would understandably think that Soledad Miranda was the star of Nightmares Come at Night . I mean it's her face on the DVD cover . However , as was the case with Lina Romay in Franco's The Erotic Rites of Frankenstein , Miranda has only 10 minutes of screen time . Plus , she has no connection with anything else in the movie . Her scenes were obviously filmed at a different time and location from the rest of the film .
" I've always wanted to make love to an angry welder . "	I am completely dumbfounded . What in the world were the people behind this mess thinking ? When the movie was over , Jaws : The Revenge left me with more questions than answers . Here's a laundry list of my questions : 1 . How did a movie as good as Jaws spawn this junk ? 2 . Regardless of where the shark is in the ocean , how is it capable of knowing the moment a Brody sticks so much as a big toe into the water ? 3 . If you attributed your husband's and son's deaths to a great white shark , wouldn't you want to go to someplace like Oklahoma instead of the Bahamas ? 4 . Do all Bahamians slip in and out of their accents the way Mario Van Peebles does in Jaws : The Revenge ? 5 . Could they have possibly made the shark look any more fake ? 6 . Snails ? 7 . You mean that piece of welded together scrap metal was supposed to represent all that is good about the Bahamas ? 8 . Do sharks really jump out of the water like Shamu and roar like a lion ? 9 . What's more frightening ? a great white shark or Ellen Brody's hair ? 10 . Is there a bigger acting whore on the planet than Michael Caine ? The best way to watch a movie like Jaws : The Revenge is with a group of friends . There's plenty here to make fun of .
" Opening strange doors isn't a thing for a good clean-living American girl to do ! "	There's a reason that The Eye Creatures ( or Attack of the the Eye Creatures . . . huh ? ) was such perfect fodder for Mystery Science Theater 3000 - it's one gawd awful movie . You could write a thesis on the many obvious faults found in The Eye Creatures . But it's a bit like shooting fish in a barrel ? there's no real challenge . When you've got a movie this bad with a plodding plot , rigor mortis stiff acting , beyond laughable special effects , no tension , no drama , and painfully inept direction , writing at length about all the negatives is way too easy . So I won't bother . Instead , I'll just mention the attempts at humor in The Eye Creatures . This is low-brow , sophomoric stuff on a whole new scale . One of the biggest , most grand on-going jokes in the film involves a couple of military types who are supposed to be watching a radar that's tracking UFOs . Instead , they've somehow managed to train their infrared sensors on the kids ' local make-out spot . What hilarity ! A couple of grown goofs who seem to derive way to much enjoyment out of watching kids necking . Not having sex , mind you - just kissing . How funny is that ? Actually , now that I think about it , maybe it is funny in an incredibly sort of pathetic way . Regardless , the attempts at humor injected into this lamo script are about as flat as an alien that's been hit by a car .
Oh , the horror	- The movie opens with a meteor crashing into a lake . Unbeknownst to the locals , a dinosaur egg is also at the bottom of the lake . The meteor heats the lake , turning it into a giant incubator . You guessed it , the egg hatches releasing a dinosaur that proceeds to terrorize the community . - What utter garbage . It's not that I mind the stop-motion clay dinosaur , it's everything else about the movie that bothers me . The acting is atrocious . The dialogue is utterly ridiculous . The comic relief is anything but comic . Logic is non-existent . Any similarity between the " scientists " in this movie and an actual scientist is purely coincidental . I could go on for an eternity on the bad aspects of this movie , but you get the idea . I feel it's fairly safe to call this disaster " MST3K Worthy " .
" I don't even want to think about slime people ! "	The Slime People is the story of a band of creatures from the Earth's interior , driven to the surface by underground nuclear testing . The creatures set up a fog dome around Los Angeles and attempt to conquer the city for their new home . With almost everyone else either dead or driven out of city , it's up to an ill-prepared band of survivors to defeat the creatures . While there are a couple of enjoyable aspects of The Slime People , the movie represents some of the worst aspects of low-budget film-making . Spotty acting , inane dialogue , uninteresting characters , poor editing , bad lighting , poor location and set choices , and amateurish direction ? The Slime People has it all . Top it off with no pacing and you've got one very bad and dull movie . And even during those moments when the movie should be exciting , director Robert Hutton ( who has double duty as the film's unappealing hero ) finds a way to muck it up . The final fight scenes are unfortunately fought in the dark with way too much fog so that you can't tell what's going on . But as I said , there are some things about The Slime People that I actually found myself enjoying . Chief among them is the creature special effects . They're not great by any stretch of the imagination , but they are better than what I expected . There are a couple of shots where a creature is shown back-lit , holding a spear that are amazingly well done given everything else that's so bad about the movie .
I don't mind a slow film but this is just plain dull	- After stealing a load of gold , three gangsters ( and a girl ) hire the local ski instructor to take them on a cross country ski trip . They plan to meet a plane that's to take them to Canada , but they don't plan on the blizzard that makes that impossible . Oh , and there's some sort of monster on the loose . - Beast from the Haunted Cave is as dull as dishwater . It's padded with some of the most mind-numbing conversations imaginable . These people will talk about anything and everything if it means extending the running time . Other than the 10 foot long arms , the monster reminded me of It from the Addams Family . Better than many of the 50s monsters , but not much better . The music is all over the place and often doesn't fit well with the action on screen . A pre-title sequence has a snappy jazz score that could be mistaken for something out of a Jess Franco film . That's immediately followed by a very serious pipe organ that could easily be mistaken for music from Carnival of Souls . Other than Sheila Carol , the acting is abysmal . - The silliest moment ( and there are several ) occurs after the cross country trip when the group arrives at the ski instructor's cabin . It takes at least two days to get there , so it's definitely isolated . What do the gangsters find when they arrive ? A housekeeper ! Hazel would have been proud of this woman's dedication .
Possibly the worst Franco I've seen	- I'm not sure how to describe a non-existent plot , but I'll give it a try . Two women , posing as a nightclub act , go to an island to investigate something . Everywhere they go , people ( I have no idea who these people are ) end up dying - sometimes stabbed in the back while in mid-sentence . Of course there's no sign of the killer . Eventually , I think they find whatever it is they're looking for because there is much rejoicing . - This movie is BAD . And , I don't mean bad in a way that can be enjoyable to make fun of . This is the kind of put - you - to - sleep - because - it - makes - no - sense bad . I got the impression that the story was being written at night on cocktail napkins for the next day's shoot . It's the only way I can explain it because I can't imagine anyone sitting down and writing something this bad unless they were drunk ( either that or it was written by monkeys ) . I defy anyone to watch this movie and tell me exactly what's going on . - I'm not giving it a because it does have a couple of redeeming qualities . What they are escapes me at the moment , but I distinctly remember enjoying at least one scene - it may have been a shot of palm trees . Plus , believe it or not , I've seen much worse .
" You've been talking for 136 years . "	And to think that I've always felt sorry for some of the trash Boris Karloff was reduced to appearing in late in his career . But this thing that John Carradine made late in his career makes Karloff's Snake People look like Citizen Kane . It's embarrassing . Carradine is some sort of Shakespeare spouting vampire who uses a trio of vampire babes to help him lure his victims . It's supposed to be some sort of horror / comedy , but it's neither scary nor funny . The obviously plastic-toothed vampires in Vampire Hookers couldn't scare a three year old . And unless your idea of humor involves an overweight vampire who has a problem with gas , you won't find anything to laugh at . Oh , I suppose there are moments that are so bad they're almost funny , but the intentional attempts at comedy are utterly ridiculous . I'm being more than generous by giving this one an extra point on its rating for these moments of unintentional humor .
" In the name of all the flocking blind cripples , I beseech you "	I've seen a number of different film adaptations of The Hound of the Baskervilles , so I thought I might enjoy a spoof of this familiar story . Also , I've seen some of the other work Peter Cook and Dudley Moore did together and thought they might have a chance at success with such a project . My reaction , well if you've been on IMDb for any length of time , you've probably seen the well thought out response " It Sux " when someone is asked about their opinion on a given film . Well , " It Sux " pretty well sums up my feelings to the abomination that is The Hound of the Baskervilles . It is a complete waste of time and effort . I can't imagine how two talented individuals like Cook and Moore could have concocted such a disaster of a film . It's nothing short of a chore to sit through the thing . It's the complete opposite of funny . In addition to Cook and Moore , there's a good cast assembled including Joan Greenwood , Denholm Elliot , Hugh Griffith , and the usually entertaining Terry-Thomas . I actually started to feel embarrassed for these talented actors . What were they thinking ? And where in the world did the scenes taken from The Exorcist come from ? I don't remember any pea soup spitting in Doyle's original work . I actually bought The Hound of the Baskervilles on DVD . I'm glad it only set me back $3 , because the I've rated the movie may actually be overstating things a bit .
The Brady Bunch go hunting	- While on vacation , two young couples decide to explore what they believe to be a deserted island . They soon run into Dr . Albert Balleau ( Wilton Graff ) who offers them the hospitality of his home - the only one on the island . Dr . Balleau's house is decorated with the trophies from his various hunting expeditions . It seems he imports game to the island . Now , Dr . Balleau is looking for even more cunning and dangerous game to hunt on his island . The young couples learn that they are to provide him with the hunting thrills he seeks . - Bloodlust ! was a much better movie when it was known as The Most Dangerous Game ( 1932 ) . That movie is far superior to Bloodlust ! in every way . Take the casts as an example . The Most Dangerous Game featured Joel McCrea and the original scream queen , Fay Wray . The insane hunter was played to perfection by Leslie Banks . In contrast , Bloodlust ! features Robert Reed in one of his early roles . If the big name " star " of your movie is the future dad from The Brady Bunch , then you really don't have much . The hunter is played by Graff as a Vincent Price wannabe . It's really pathetic . - Another comparison , Bloodlust ! goes for the cheap thrills by showing various body parts being prepared to be mounted for his trophy room . There is nothing that looks remotely real in this scene . The Most Dangerous Game leaves these images up to the viewers imagination . And ( especially true with low budgets ) the imagination is capable of creating far more horrific images than can be created by using a cheap rubber foot . - If you find the concept of a nut-job hunting people as sport appealing , watch The Most Dangerous Game . The Alpha DVD has a great image and can be had for about $5 . The video appears to have been " taken " from the much more expensive Criterion DVD .
I love Bava , but this movie is almost unwatchable	Mario Bava is responsible for some of my all-time favorite movies . Black Sunday , Kill Baby ? Kill , Danger : Diabolik , Black Sabbath , and Blood and Black Lace are all in my top 100 . I guess you could call me a Bava fanboy . As far as I'm concerned , Mario Bava was a genius and one of the greatest directors ever . I even love the movie that Bava considered his worst ? Five Dolls for an August Moon . However , if he thought of Five Dolls for an August Moon as his worst then ( as I wrote in my comment for that movie ) " I guess Bava never had the misfortune of watching his movie Dr . Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs " . I take it that there are some difference between the Italian version and the American version , but I doubt they'd change my opinion much . Dr . Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs is just that ? a complete and utter BOMB of a movie . Other than Vincent Price's gleeful performance as Dr . Goldfoot , I can't think of another positive thing to mention . The plot is ridiculous . The acting is abysmal . The comedy , especially on the part of the two Italian buffoons Franco Franchi and Ciccio Ingrassia ( maybe it's a cultural thing ) , isn't funny at all . The music is terrible . The final chase scene is noteworthy for being just so incredibly stupid . And there are none of the Bava directorial trademarks or flourishes that I've come enjoy . And to top it all off , the dubbing is simply atrocious . I normally don't complain too much about dubbing , but in this case the whole movie has a hollow , staged sound to it . In the end , Dr . Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs is so bad that it makes Dr . Goldfoot and the Bikini Machine ( the first of the two Goldfoot movies ) look like a masterpiece of cinema ( which it most definitely isn't ) . As much as I hate to do it , I've got to give this Mario Bava film a .
Inept , dull , monotonous , laughable , clumsy , horrible , etc .	I admit it ? if it wasn't for a copy of the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of Terror from the Year 5000 , I doubt I would have ever had the intestinal fortitude to sit through this thing . It's bad in every way a movie can be bad . I've often seen ( and even occasionally used ) the expression , " So bad it's good " . Well that doesn't ring true with Terror from the Year 5000 . It's so bad it's bad . If I were asked to do a one word review , " inept " comes to mind and satisfactorily describes the movie . Other fitting one word reviews would include : dull , monotonous , laughable , clumsy , horrible , etc . Skip it at all costs . The MST3K commentary was actually quite funny . Two of my favorite running gags throughout the episode were the continuous riffing on the male lead each time he found himself shirtless and Servo's announcements and explanations regarding " Terror " being delayed from making an appearance in the movie . Both are laugh out loud funny . Good stuff !
Why is Myrna Loy in this movie ?	Is there a book titled " How to Make a Movie with Every ' Man vs . Nature ' Clich Imaginable " ? If not , Ants would make excellent source material for the chapter on killer insects . Ants doesn't have one shred of originality to be found at any point of its 100 minute runtime . I suppose the most surprising thing about Ants is that they actually stretched the film to 100 minutes . The set-up , the characters , the various sub-plots , the death scenes , and the way the ants are presented have been done before any number of times ? and in most cases , much better . It's amazing that so many of these Insects on a Rampage films were made in the 70s because they're all basically the same movie . And can someone please tell me what in God's name Myrna Loy is doing in this monkey-turd of a movie ? A woman as talented and classy as Loy deserved better than Ants as one of her final movies .
" This is where the fish lives . "	Sometimes I feel like I ramble on and on when I'm writing one of these . No worries this time though , because I'm keeping it short and sweet . The Touch of Satan is one of the biggest bores of a movie to ever come down the pike . Lackluster people doing dull and unimaginative things make for one excruciating experience . Even when Grandma shows up and hacks up a few people , it's met with the same ho-hum enthusiasm as the rest of the movie . For what it's worth , I've rated The Touch of Satan an incredibly generous . As with many of the " bad " movies I've been watching lately , I saw The Touch of Satan courtesy of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . While some of the riffs ( particularly those about the long pauses in the dialogue ) are very funny , overall the episode is too inconsistent to rate too highly . I'll give Episode # 908 a wishy-washy and very average on my MST3K rating scale .
Plain Old Bad	- A sex-crazed woman murders her ailing father so she can use the inheritance to help her " boyfriend " out of a jam . What the woman doesn't know , however , is that her father has left all of his money to her sister . - Let's get this over with - Blood Mania is BAD . Take some of the choices that were made with the cinematography . I suppose that some of the camera work in Blood Mania was meant to be artistic or experimental . But much of it comes off as just plain ridiculous . One perfect example is an entire scene of dialogue shot at the waist . I suppose we are meant to gain some insight into what the characters are saying by the movement of their hips . I won't even bother mentioning the acting , dialogue , etc . It should go without saying that they are all equally bad . - None of the characters has a single redeeming quality . All of them are as sleazy as you'll find . There's obviously the woman who kills her father . She's also blackmailing her " boyfriend " to sleep with her . The " boyfriend " is a doctor who knows the truth about the old man's death but does nothing for fear of being exposed as having performed illegal abortions . The sister who gets the inheritance isn't much better . It takes her two or three hours to fall for her sister's " boyfriend " . And I haven't even gotten to the guy demanding money from the doctor to keep him quiet . Not a very nice lot . I felt like taking a bath after the movie was over . - Unless you feel the need to watch a bad movie ( and a shower afterward ) , steer clear of this one .
Pathetic	If I were doing a one word review of The Legend of Bigfoot , it would be PATHETIC . This purported documentary is pathetic in every sense of the word and in every way imaginable . From the braggadocios but ultimately pointless narration to the exaggerated claims of presenting proof of the Bigfoot's existence , it's all just so pathetic . The movie tells the story of ( and is unfortunately narrated by ) Ivan Marx and his search for Bigfoot . For those unfamiliar with Marx , apparently he was an outdoorsman and tracker of some note ( at least that's what he tells us over and over ) who claims to have filmed Bigfoot . But to get to the 30 or so seconds of Bigfoot footage , The Legend of Bigfoot's 76 minute runtime is filled with over 75 minutes of padding . Shots of impressive looking moose , sad little ground squirrels being run over by cars , and tired looking Bigfoot tracks are just a few examples of what makes up the bulk of the movie . And when we finally do get to see the supposed Bigfoot footage , in contrast to much of the rest of the film , it's distorted , grainy , and of such a poor quality it proves nothing . In fact , the images look far more like someone in an ape suit than anything else ( hmmmm , I wonder why ? ) . Getting beyond whether or not Marx is a scam artist ( take a look around the internet and judge for yourself ) , the movie is still pathetic . It's as dull as can be and provides very little in the way of entertainment - intentional or otherwise . If you want to see a far better , more entertaining pseudo-documentary with a similar subject , check out The Legend of Boggy Creek . It comes off looking like Academy Award winning material in comparison to The Legend of Bigfoot .
" Dance ! "	When you're writing about a movie as brutally bad as The Wild Women of Wongo , going through an elaborate plot description seems somehow completely unnecessary . So , very briefly , the movie is about the tribe of Wongo where the women are beautiful , but the men aren't . They meet the Goona tribe where the men are beautiful , but he women aren't . It doesn't take a clairvoyant to see where this is headed . Throw in some of the worst acting imaginable , a sub-plot about ape men that goes nowhere , a laughably ridiculous dance sequence , and a parrot so annoying you'll want to strangle the nearest ornithologist and you've got The Wild Women of Wongo . If it all wasn't so laughably bad I would call it one of worst movies I've ever seen . Fortunately for me , I saw the new DVD from The Film Crew . If you're not familiar with The Film Crew , it's sort of like Mystery Science Theater 3000 - eight years removed . Mike Nelson , Kevin Murphy , and Bill Corbett are back at it , riffing really bad movies . The Wild Women of Wongo is their third release as The Film Crew ( Hollywood After Dark and Killers from Space being the first two ) and easily the most funny . It's often as funny as some of the best stuff the guys did on MST3K . So , while I've only rated The Wild Women of Wongo a , I'll give The Film Crew commentary a on my MST3K rating scale .
How is it that Young Hannah is 700 years old ?	For the most part , Crypt of the Living Dead or Young Hannah : Queen of the Vampires or Vampire Women is a throughly retched movie . All you really need to know about the story is that 700 year old Hannah is released from her tomb on an almost uninhabited island . She bites a few locals and is then dispatched herself . There are so many negative things to say about this film that I'll just mention a few that really bothered me . One , Hannah has got to be the slowest vampire in the history of movie vampires . I've heard complaints about the slow moving Bela Lugosi in Dracula . Bela is like Carl Lewis compared with Hannah . Two , the characters do not act in a logical manner . I'm not talking about logic as you and I know it , but these people don't even act according to " horror movie logic " . For example , a big deal is made about the effect of dog's bane ( sp ) on Hannah . In one scene , it is used to get Hannah to release the movie's hero . Once free of her clutches , he immediately goes after her . But , does he bother to take the dog's bane that was just used to save his life - NO . Third , nothing really happens in the movie . I'm not talking about a slow story . Instead , I'm talking about no story . There is a great long section of the film ( the first hour or so ) where , literally , nothing happens . It's not till the slow moving Hannah is awakened to prey upon the illogical victims on the island that anything seems to happen .
" It happened . It just hasn't happened yet . "	What a load ! Next has to be one of the most contrived pieces of garbage to come down the pike in quite a while . To begin , the plot is utterly ridiculous . Nicholas Cage is Chris Johnson , a man who has the ability to see two minutes into the future . For some reason known only to her , FBI Agent Callie Ferris ( Julianne Moore ) is looking for Johnson to help her stop a terrorist attack . For some reason known only to them , the terrorists are also looking for Johnson . For obvious reasons , Johnson is looking for Liz Cooper ( Jessica Biel ) . And for no fathomable reason , Liz falls for Johnson . Oh yeah , and there's a nuclear weapon about to explode . I'm determined that I'm not going to waste a lot of time writing about Next . It would be easy to get sucked in and go through the laundry list of things that infuriated me while watching the movie . Things like why in the world is the FBI wasting so much money and time on find a two-bit Vegas showman with a little psychic ability ? If they spent that much on locating the terrorists , they would have never gotten into the country . Another topic I could beat like a dead horse is why in the world would Jessica Biel's character give Cage a second look ? From the creepy hair and smile to his even creepier stalker-like obsession , she'd be getting a restraining order if Next were based in reality . Instead , I'll focus this on Next's gimmick . Using his psychic ability and seeing what's about to happen to him , Johnson is able to change the future . We , the audience , get to see the future Johnson sees and then see what he does to make it different . For example , we see two people get shot right in front of Johnson . But that wasn't reality ? that was Johnson looking into the future . We then see the same scene play out only this time Johnson does something to stop the killer . Next , Johnson's car is hit by a train . Wait a minute ? that was just Johnson's vision of the future . He's able to speed up and beat the train . The first time it happens it's actually pretty cool . But when it happens over and over , it gets old very fast . And by the time we discover that the entire second half of the movie is just one of Johnson's visions of the future , it gets insulting . It's kind of like Groundhog Day ? except Groundhog Day is a good movie and Next is a piece of crap . As I wrote to begin this ? what a load ! !
Based on the other comments , I must have missed something	To be as honest as I possibly can , The Devil's Plaything ( or Veil of Blood or Vampire Ecstasy or The Curse of the Black Sisters or ? ? ) is a complete bore . The movie has a good premise behind it ? the resurrection of a long dead vampire through the body of a descendant through the aid and assistance of a group of women dressed in black ? but the execution is horrible . There are great , long moments of screen time when literally nothing happens . Characters just stand around with nothing to do . There's no mystery , no suspense , and no plot points to care about . The acting is simply abysmal . Most of the acting involves a group of below average looking women dancing naked while staring at the camera . They do this repeatedly . And what little plot there is seems to be designed to get more of these less than attractive women naked so they can join in the dancing . While it's not as bad or pointless as the dancing or the plot in something like Orgy of the Dead , it comes close .
" Those eyes ! Those HORRIBLE eyes ! "	While monitoring a nuclear test , a plane carrying Dr . Douglas Martin ( Peter Graves ) mysteriously crashes in the desert . When the wreckage is found , there is no sign of Dr . Martin's body . It seems that Dr . Martin has been revived by a group of aliens living under the desert . They want Dr . Martin to spy for them and help them pave the way for their conquest of Earth . I really thought I was going to enjoy Killers from Space more than I did . It's got all the hallmarks of a movie that should be goofy fun . But the thing ends up being so damn dull that it's difficult to watch . The problem is that nothing ( and I mean absolutely nothing ) happens during the movie's entire 71 minute runtime . Watch Peter Graves run this way ? watch Graves do an about face and run the other way ? watch as Graves changes his mind yet again and heads in another direction . This goes on for what seems like an eternity . It really is one incredibly painful experience . And what about the aliens in Killers from Space ? Could they be any goofier looking ? A bunch of fat , doughy , Robert Vaughn-looking white guys with ping-pong balls for eyes ? ooohhh , I'm so scared ! How utterly ridiculous !
I can't believe some people actually like this stuff	Renowned monster hunter Van Helsing is sent to Transylvania to deal with Dracula and his vampire minions . The Catholic Church is worried about protecting its Eastern flank from the spread of evil . But Van Helsing has never faced a creature quite like Dracula . And Dracula proves to be only one of his worries . Van Helsing must also take care of Dracula's vampire brides , a werewolf , and Frankenstein's monster . What Works : - Kate Beckinsale . Is there any need to explain why ? What Doesn't Work : - The Monsters . I'm sure that James Whale is spinning in his grave . - Hugh Jackman . Can anyone be more dull and lifeless ? I really wish the movie hadn't been called Van Helsing because then there might have been a chance his character would die . - Everything Else . There are so many things wrong with the movie that I really don't know where to begin . I suppose I'll start with the incredible overuse of CGI . Nothing in this movie looks real . As a result , people , animals , and objects all behave in a manner that seems completely inconsistent with any known laws of physics ( or at least my very rudimentary understanding of physics ) . For example , a person simply cannot fall from the heights that the people in Van Helsing do without either becoming severely injured or dying . It's not possible . Yet Van Helsing would have the viewer believe that a person can drop from the height of a two-story building over and over without so much as a scratch . I don't even remember anyone getting their hair messed up ? unlike much of this movie . I want to take this opportunity to apologize to the people who made Freddy vs . Jason . I recently criticized it for being without any redeeming value . Van Helsing is exponentially more ridiculous than Freddy vs . Jason . Why do I keep subjecting myself to this stuff ?
Not much to recommend here	With the assistance of hypnotist Dr . Carlo Lambardi ( Chester Morris ) , Andrea Talbott ( Marla English ) is capable of regressing through a series of past lives . Some , like English maiden Elizabeth Wetherby , are quite innocuous . But Dr . Lambardi takes Andrea even further back ? back to a time before humans existed . He takes her back to an amphibious creature that would someday become Andrea . But there are consequences . When Andrea regresses to this She-Creature , somehow it's capable of making the journey back to the present with her . A series of murders up and down the coast are proof . Andrea wants to escape from Lambardi and his powerful control over her . But is his control as powerful as the She-Creature ? What an uneventful way to spend 77 minutes . The She-Creature is dull all the way through . I can't think of anything much duller than watching someone being hypnotized over and over and over . The cast doesn't help much . Chester Morris isn't much of a threat as the baddie . Lance Fuller makes for the most " do nothing " lead I've seen ? unless you call staring blankly into space doing something . Finally , while I've always enjoyed Tom Conway's work , The She-Creature gives him little to do and Conway makes the most of it , sleepwalking his way to a paycheck . The only two positives worth noting are the creature special effects ( very nicely done and far better than anything you would expect to find in a movie like The She-Creature ) and the sight of Marla English in a sweater . Unless you're able to catch the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of The She-Creature , my advice would be steer clear of this one .
Poor Old Karloff	Poor , old Boris Karloff . Reduced to appearing in a string of wretched Mexican horror films just before his death . I'm not sure what made him decide to do it , but this is not the way for a horror legend to go out . Fear Chamber is plain old bad . The plot makes little or no sense at all . Scenes and character seem to exist in a vacuum in that things happen that have no relation to what came before or what comes after . The cinematography and editing are shoddy . The acting is abysmal . Suffice it to say that everything I could mention is horrible . The reason I haven't rated the film any lower and the only reason to watch Fear Chamber is the curiosity value .
" What does God need with a starship ? "	By the time The Final Frontier was released in 1989 , it's amazing how far the crew of the Enterprise had sunk . Gone was the campy appeal of the original series - replaced by childish jokes and lame one-liners . The plot involving Spock's half-brother ( Was there ever any mention of a half-brother before this movie ? How convenient ! ) searching for what is essentially God is so utterly ridiculous that it hardly merits mention . Most of the crew is shoved to the background as the movie centers on Kirk , Spock , and McCoy , who I swear seem to be doing their best Moe , Larry , and Curly routine . Shatner seems intent on embarrassing himself at every possible turn , Nimoy acts as if he'd rather be anywhere else , and Kelley is just pathetic . In the end , I've got nothing positive to say and I'm scratching my head in vain trying to remember why I rated this dog a instead of a . It's that bad !
A million miles away from Fay Wray	- I can sum up this movie in one word - trash . Everything about Kong Island is near the bottom of the barrel . First , let's look at the name - Kong Island - what a rip-off . When I see the name " Kong " , I naturally think of a very large gorilla . There is no towering ape in this movie . Instead , there are a few average size gorillas . The next word , Island , would seem to indicate that the movie takes place on a small piece of land completely surrounded by the ocean . Unless you consider Africa an island , there's not one to be found . - The acting is horrible . The female lead , Ursula Davis , is about as low rent a heroine as I've seen . She doesn't act or look the part of a beautiful damsel in distress . I could go on , but what's the point . No one comes out of this movie looking good . - The special effects , and I use that the term " special " liberally , are terrible . The opening scene of a gorilla surgery is obviously a mask . Then there are the gorillas themselves . I've seen better gorilla suits in a local costume shop . Low budget doesn't begin to describe Kong Island . - I haven't even gotten to the plot , such as it is . It's a confusing story of a mad scientist who puts electronic devices into the heads of gorillas so he can control their actions . It's never made clear why he does this . The previously mentioned damsel's father is also involved financially in this scheme . Why ? I don't know . Most of it seems like it was made up on the fly . - I could go on and on about the goofiness of Kong Island , but why bother . I'll end with one word of advice - AVOID !
Charlie Jones	The championship game is only a couple of days away , but things in New Orleans aren't as they should be . From players with marital problems to drug overdoses to gambling problems to a killer on the loose , life is getting in the way of what should be a memorable , wonderful time . Can things be put back into order and a killer stopped before the big game is ruined ? Despite what you might think when you first read about Superdome , this is not a football movie . In fact football is nothing more than a plot device and an after thought . Instead , Superdome is another of those lousy soap opera-ish 70s made-for-TV movies populated with Hollywood has beens and those that never will be . The cast sleepwalks its way through the thing with no one really looking good . The best ( or worst ) example is Van Johnson in a very small role looking generally lost as to why he's there . The plot is dull , uninteresting , and unbelievable . Donna Mills as a hit " man " ? Yeah , right ! It's about as believable as the affair she has with the liquor soaked David Jansen . The movie also lacks any pace . Trying to get all four or five story lines into the film zaps whatever flow Superdome might have had . With no drama or suspense in sight , Superdome ends up being a very poor example of a 70s made-for-TV movie . The lone highlight for me was the voice-over work from the late Charlie Jones - a sportscaster I miss listening to . The eloquent way he overstates the intrigue and over-hypes the atmosphere in New Orleans is pure cheese at its finest . Like most others who have seen Superdome , I also did so courtesy of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . It may be one of the KTMA public access episodes , but it's one of the best examples of the shows early start . So even though I've only rated Superdome a , I'll give this episode a generous on my MST3K rating scale .
" You there ! Discharge the caustic vapors ! "	A spaceship from the planet Krankor invades Earth with the intention of stealing a new rocket fuel formula . Fortunately for all of humankind , Prince of Space is on hand to thwart the aliens at every turn . I have never seen Prince of Space without the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary and , to be honest , I'm not sure I want to . Usually , when I write about a movie that appeared on MST3K , I focus on the movie ? not the television show . I pride myself in being able to separate the movie from the silliness going on around it . I can't really do that with Prince of Space . It's the kind of movie that was just made to be lampooned by MST3K . Annoying Japanese kids , ridiculous looking aliens , an even more ridiculous looking hero , crazy weapons , cheesy dubbed dialogue , bad special effects ? Prince of Space has it all in spades . The riffs hit their marks almost every time and have me laughing out loud more than once . Some of the quotes that leave me in stitches include : " Tokyo : a rare Godzilla-free day " " I am the lemon zester of destruction . " " Crank whore ? " " An exchange of deadly negative scratches ! " Yeah , it's silly , but boy is it fun . While I rate the movie Prince of Space a , I'll give episode # 816 a on my MST3K rating scale . It's truly one of the best .
One big old dog of a movie	Plot ( and I'll keep this brief ? no point in dragging it out ) : Quest of the Delta Knights is the story of a boy , sold into slavery , who becomes the leader of a revolutionary group out to stop the evil Lord Vultare from discovering Archimedes lost storehouse and the knowledge it contains . This knowledge includes a weapon of unlimited power . My plot description almost makes Quest of the Delta Knights sound good . Unfortunately , Quest of the Delta Knights is one big old dog of a movie . Nothing in the movie makes sense . It's a mish-mash of ideas and characters that don't go together . Imageine every sort of pre-16th Century character you can think of and you're bound to find them fighting and living beside each other in this movie . Viking , knights , Italian scholars ? it doesn't matter . Also , I've seen this movie several times and I'm not quite sure where it's supposed to be set . Someone mentions England , but there are Viking roaming around . With Leonardo Di Vinci as a character , you might think Italy . Again , how do you explain the Vikings ? How about Atlantis ? It's anyone's guess . And because the whole thing looks like its straight out a Renaissance festival , maybe the setting is supposed to be California ? Makes as much sense as anything else you'll find in the movie . This is just one small example of the numerous inconsistencies and annoyances you'll find in Quest of the Delta Knights . Believe me , there are plenty more . Watching Quest of the Delta Knights , I decided that some people will do just about anything if the price is right . Apparently the producers of this turkey offered David Warner enough money that he was willing to embarrass himself by taking on not one , but two roles . How much money does it take for an actor to agree to star in something like this ? Many watchers would also recognize Richard Kind in the role of wise man / Magi Wamthool . But the casting of Kind has to be one of the most puzzling in movie history . I realize they were going for comic relief but they failed miserably . Kind may even have embarrassed himself more than Warner in his mercifully brief performance . I could go on and on , but really there's no point . My opinion of Quest of the Delta Knights should already be painfully obvious . If not , I'll spell it out for you ? it's an incredibly bad movie with one ridiculous set-piece after the next . There are few , if any , redeeming moments to be found . I must admit , however , that my experiences with Quest of the Delta Knights have been softened by watching the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of the movie . The MST3K guys make it a barrel of laughs . So , while I rate the movie a miserable , I'll give it a on my MST3K rating scale .
" Excuse me , but have you seen my little monkey ? "	How do you explain a movie like Merlin's Shop of Mystical Wonders ? On its surface , the movie seems to be some sort of children's fantasy that was marketed at families . I mean what's wrong with a movie that features a kindly grandfather telling his grandson a couple of harmless bedtime stories about Merlin the Magician ? Well , when the two bedtime stories in question feature pets dying in fires , people turning into horrible creatures , and images of Satan ? I would say there's a whole lot wrong with it . And surely the movie wasn't aimed at real , hardcore horror fans . The combination of the grandfather and Merlin would be enough to turn off any real horror fanatic . Getting past the question of the movie's target audience , the movie itself offers very little . The movie's set-up as an anthology is clunky at best . As I've indicated , Merlin's Shop of Mystical Wonders features two wrappings ? ( 1 ) the grandfather and ( 2 ) Merlin . Bad idea all the way around ! As for the two featurettes , neither is anything to get excited about . The first is entirely predictable and features poor acting and special effects . And director Kenneth Berton got even lazier with the second featurette . It's nothing more than a chopped-up version of a movie he made in 1984 ? 12 years previously . I don't mean he remade that movie ? he re-used it ! I seem to remember seeing the 1984 movie and not enjoying it . It's not any better with a new name and a dozen years later . Merlin's Shop of Mystical Wonders makes for a very disappointing MST3K episode . With something this bad and utterly ridiculous , I would have expected a real home-run . I've seen the MST3k episode a couple of times not and cannot rate it any higher than a ? don't put it at the top of your " to see " list .
" It's the voodoo , I tells ya ! "	When radioactive waste is dumped in the ocean , the consequences prove deadly . The waste animates a few long dead corpses at the bottom of the sea and mutates them into " fish monsters " with a taste for human blood . In no time at all , Party Beach becomes Death Beach . Trying to decide the worst aspect of The Horror of Party Beach is a daunting task . It's a laundry list of " badness " : 1 . The nonsensical plot . I realize that this kind of movie often has a few plot holes , but this is ridiculous . For example , exactly how many bodies are at the bottom of the ocean where the radioactive waste was dumped ? And how did they get there ? No one seems the least bit concerned that there appears to be a graveyard just offshore . 2 . The creature effects . There are a lot of candidates for the worst monster effects in the history of movies . Some claim it's the Eye Creaures or the Giant Leeches or the Creeping Terror or the Killer Shrews . But the " fish monsters " in The Horror of Party Beach give any of these a run for their money . They look like large paper-mache hats worn by people in silly looking costumes . There is absolutely no animation or life to the heads at all . And what's with the mouthful of hot-dogs ? What is that supposed to be ? 3 . The acting . The acting in The Horror of Party Beach is horrendous . And I'm talking Ed Wood / Ray Dennis Steckler / Al Adamson bad . I'm not at all shocked to see that most of these people ( I refuse to call them actors ) ever did much other than their work for director Del Tenney . 4 . Del Tenney . The direction in The Horror of Party Beach can best be described as amateurish . There's no flow or pace to any of the movie . Everything comes across as " staged " . And Tenney's use of closeups of the monster is pointless as the viewer has no idea what they're looking at . The fact that Tenney directed four movies is a minor miracle in itself . Who was financing this guy ? I could go on and on , but there's really no point . The movie is as bad as they come . The only reason I haven't rated it lower is , of all things , The Del-Tones . Yes , that annoying little band that plays on the beach during the movies opening scenes . While they may not be the best band you'll ever hear , they do give the film a little energy and the appropriate feel . Unfortunately , it's too short lived and we're left with the rest of Tenney's disaster .
It may be miserable , but it's a hoot !	Even by Ed Wood's standards , The Sinister Urge is a miserable movie . Everything you would expect to find in an Ed Wood film is here ? a ridiculous plot , bad acting , stilted dialogue , poor editing , and bad set design . Most of the " action " takes place behind a desk on an all but barren set as two policemen drone on an on about nothing . There's one scene that must be seen to be believed involving a " taxpayer " who shows up to demand to know what the police are doing . They give Mr . Taxpayer a good lecture about the dangers of pornography and how it leads to all sorts of other crimes including murder , kidnapping , jay-walking , terrorism , and ripping tags off mattresses . It's a hoot ! But as I've said before when discussing Ed Wood's movies , even with all the problems , there's a love for the art form that you can see just under the surface . Ed Wood wasn't the most gifted filmmaker and he often worked in less than stellar conditions , but there's no denying his love of movies . He just didn't have the wherewithal to make a " good " one .
One good gore scene , but little else	What a mess ! Vengeance of the Zombies tries too hard to be everything . The film doesn't devote near enough time to any one element of the plot . Vengeance of the Zombies is all over the place . It's one part Satanism , one part Eastern mysticism , one part Caribbean voodoo , and one part revenge . Throw in some bad acting , a lack of logic , and a twist out of left field and you've got a recipe for disaster . I'm trying real hard to enjoy these Paul Naschy films , but thus far I'm not impressed . My rating would be lower if it weren't for some special effects that work quite nicely . There's one decapitation scene in particular that far exceeds the quality of anything else in Vengeance of the Zombies .
" This is Fu Manchu . "	Even if it's only two or three sentences , I generally like to begin one of these with a brief plot outline . In the case of The Castle of Fu Manchu , that's pretty much impossible . The movie is a mish-mash of ideas that don't necessarily fit together to form a coherent plot . The movie may start out with Fu sinking a ship , but that storyline is quickly abandoned in favor of another . . and another . . and another . In the end , I'm not sure what the movie's about or what happened . But the biggest single problem with The Castle of Fu Manchu is that it is extremely dull . You would think that any movie that included a ship sinking , a fight for a castle , explosions , kidnapping , and other 1960s secret agent type trappings would be action packed . Well , you would be wrong . The movie has no pace , no zip , and no energy . It's as if the life had been sucked out of the movie . Add to that some less than stellar acting , abominable lighting , amateurish editing , and no continuity and you've got one fine mess of a movie . On the positive side , The Castle of Fu Manchu does feature Christopher Lee and Rosalba Neri . Also , there's the ? err ? uhm . . . did I mention Christopher Lee and Rosalba Neri ? I have now seen The Castle of Fu Manchu twice ? once with and once without the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary . And , as hard as this might be to believe , I actually prefer this one without the MST3K treatment . This MST3K episode has to be one of the worst I've so far seen . The jokes don't work . And , I was really put off by some of the comments that showed a complete lack of understanding about how European movies of the 60s were made .
" I've seen some amazing things in my life , but never anything to compare with this . " - How true .	What a mess ! Almost everything about Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold is a complete and total disaster . In the movie , Quatermain puts a group together to search for his brother in the wilds of Africa . After facing several dangerous and near-death obstacles , Quatermain finds his brother living in the seemingly idyllic and Utopian Lost City of Gold . But appearances can be deceiving as the city is really under the control of a ruthless warlord intent on making the citizens his slaves to mine the gold he is taking out . Can Quatermain and his band of adventurers save these people ? If I were to just make a list of everything that doesn't work in Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold , my list would go on for pages . I'll begin with the acting . To put it bluntly , it's terrible . I've never thought much of Richard Chamberlain as an actor and this movie does nothing to change that . As for Sharon Stone , I'm sure she would like to see this thing buried . I doubt she considers it a highlight on her resume . James Earl Jones is an actor you can usually count on to give a quality performance regardless of the material . Here , he just comes across as embarrassed to be associated with this drivel . Technically , the movie is train wreck . Direction , editing , and everything else you can come up with are as bad as I've seen . But the special effects take Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold to a new low . The blue screen effects are as bad as I've ever seen . The rear projection used in the 1930s is 10X more realistic than the blue haloed actors on a bad looking backgrounds seen in this movie . The puppet snakes make Kermit look like a real frog . And , wires , harnesses , and the like are readily evident . Like I said when I started , it's a mess . I haven't even gotten to the plot , but why bother ? It's as poorly written as you can imagine . The only thing that keeps me from rating this movie a are the groovy outfits worn by Cassandra Peterson . It's too bad she's only got 10 or so minutes of screen time because I dig some of those costumes .
Very Early Sonny Chiba	To be honest , Invasion of the Neptune Men is about as bad a movie as I've seen . Maybe it's the cut of the movie I've seen or maybe something is lost in the translation from Japanese or maybe it's meant for a different age group , but whatever , it's bad . ( Note : I haven't rated the movie a because although it's bad , it's not offensively bad . ) Instead of getting into the myriad of problems , I want to focus on why I've now seen The Invasion of the Neptune Men at least four times . I can think of two reasons off the top of my head to explain why I continue to re-watch Invasion of the Neptune Men . One , ( and I admit I'm pushing it here ) the chance to see an early Sonny Chiba . I'm not an expert on Chiba , but what I've seen , I really like . From his work in The Street Fighter , Golgo 13 , and up to and including Kill Bill , Chiba is the MAN . So it's really cool to get the chance to go back and watch him in what is really his second movie . He's barely recognizable as the lame hero , Space Chief . Two , Invasion of the Neptune Men is one of my very favorite episodes of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . While I may only rate the movie a , I give this episode a on my MST3K rating scale . Some of the riffs are laugh out loud funny no matter how many times I've heard them . The bits about Space Chef , the Hitler building , and the kids in their shorts are hysterical . As I said , I've seen this episode at least four times and can probably re-watch it many more without getting tired of it .
Huh ? ? ?	- The less said about this steaming pile of dung , the better . It's hard to imagine that someone actually put up the money to finance this . What was the pitch ? " Oh , we're making a King Kong spoof with women in all the roles previously done by men . And instead of Fay Wray , we're going to put a man in that role . And , here's the best part , his character's name is Ray Fay ! " I'll never understand how anyone could find any of this remotely entertaining . It's meant to be funny , but none of the jokes work . Add to that some of the worst song and dance numbers ever filmed and Queen Kong becomes one of the worst films I've ever seen . - But , I can't rate it a . I have to give it a point just for the casting of Valerie Leon .
I didn't think it was possible to make a movie entirely out of padding	What a cheap , lazy , and completely dull movie . I didn't think it was possible to make a movie entirely out of padding , but Cy Roth seems to have given it the old college try with Fire Maidens from Outer Space . It's got more padding than Joan Crawford's shoulders . What few moments of plot that actually manage to peak through the filler involve a group of astronauts on their way to the 13th moon of Jupiter . Once there , they run into the last of the descendants of Atlantis ( don't ask ! ) , fall in love , and try to get off the planet . Will they succeed ? It hardly matters as you most likely won't be awake to find out the answer . Early on , it's pretty easy to see just how miserable Fire Maidens from Outer Space is going to be . There are a lot of examples I could cite , but there's one moment that I'm particularly fond of ( fond is probably too strong of a word when discussing anything related to this movie ) . The captain ( And we know he's the captain because ( a ) he's the one controlling the two shifter things that fly the ship and ( b ) he's wearing the same old ratty captain's hat that seems to have been standard issue in movies from the 1940s and 1950s . A hat like that is fine if you're taking a group of scientists up the Nile in search of some strange creature , but it's out of place on an interplanetary journey . ) lands the painfully unexciting set that doubles as the interior of the rocket and the crew celebrates this achievement by whipping out large quantities of cigarettes . Once this merry band of misfits has finished off a carton of butts , they're ready to make their way out of the ship to explore this new , unknown world . But the movie is far too cheap for anything that remotely looks like space gear . The 13th moon conveniently has an atmosphere similar to earth . Therefore , the only thing our group of explorers need do is remove their white cotton coveralls . . . errr spacesuits . . . to reveal freshly pressed khaki outfits complete with matching holsters . Yes , that's right , the only equipment our " scientists " see fit to take with them ( and the only equipment this low-rent movie could afford ) on their explorations are five , rather large , revolvers . At this point I actually had to stop the movie and laugh for a few seconds at the absurdity of what I'd just witnessed . Call me crazy but I just can't envision Neil Armstrong or Buzz Aldrin touching down on the moon and firing up a few Chesterfield's while strapping on their six-shooters . From here on out , things only get worse . The rest of Fire Maidens from Outer Space is made up of smoking , standing around , mind-numbingly dull interpretive dances , and more smoking . Like I said ? it's cheap , lazy , and completely dull .
It's like a guy wearing a black bathroom rug and false teeth	I'm not sure if Beauties and the Beast is a movie or just a compilation of someone's home movies . The plot , if you can call it that , involves a Bigfoot type creature terrorizing a bunch of hippies and nudists in the woods . The creature looks more like a guy wearing a black bathroom rug and false teeth than an actual Bigfoot . He kidnaps girl after girl taking them to his blanket furnished cave . He gropes them a couple of times and that's about it . I have no idea what happened to this girls or if they ever escaped . This film doesn't bother with things like that . In reality , Beauties and the Beast is a cheap , poorly made , and horribly acted excuse of a softcore porn film . Everything is simply awful . I can't think of any reason , and that includes the generous supply of nudity , to recommend this one to anyone . It's just so gawd awful ! And if you must watch this thing , beware of the soundtrack . It's a two pronged assault against the senses . First , there's the generic , overly-sappy elevator music . It almost put me to sleep on a couple of occasions ( that , and the dull movie ) . Second , one of the hippies insists on singing a folk song . I think my ears may still be bleeding .
" These river bottoms are truly a sight to behold . "	For the life of me , I cannot imagine why anyone thought that The Legend of Boggy Creek ( 1972 ) needed a sequel ? and 13 years later at that . The first Boggy Creek movie isn't anything special ( though I admit to an explained fondness for it ) , but episode # 2 is something different altogether . Boggy Creek II is beyond bad . In this one , Professor " Doc " Lockart from the University of Arkansas assembles a team to explore the swamps of Southern Arkansas in hopes of finding the Boggy Creek Monster . Along the way , he tells his research assistants stories of the creature . Once in the swamp , they encounter something they can't explain , but come away with no real proof . No proof , that is , until they make the fateful decision to take a boat trip down river to Old Man Crenshaw's place . There , they find all the proof they'll need . The actual legend of the Boggy Creek Monster seems to be about as ridiculous as this movie . I'm probably wrong about this , but if it weren't for Charles B . Pierce , I doubt anyone would have even heard of the thing . He has single-handedly kept it alive . And some of the stories he uses in Boggy Creek II as evidence of the creatures existence are just plain old stupid . Through his mayonnaise covered flashback lens , he relates the story of an old man who has a blowout while traveling a lonely stretch of road one night . While changing the tire , the man is " attacked " by something . He never regains consciousness before dying . Pierce blames the creature . Huh ? So let me get this straight ? the man dies before he can tell anyone his story yet Pierce jumps to the conclusion that he was attached by some mythical creature ? Yeah , right . That's certainly one giant leap in logic . Why not just blame all the unexplained deaths in Southern Arkansas on the creature . Sure would save a lot of time and effort . The other problems with Boggy Creek II are too numerous to even attempt to mention . Everything from the believability of the " research team " to the acting to the special effects is bottom of the barrel . And you can put the blame squarely at the feet of auteur Charles B . Pierce . What's more pathetic is Pierce's apparent attitude toward the whole thing . He has a smug look on his face that just screams " Hey ! Look at me ! Writer , director , actor ? boy , am I cool or what ? " Even sadder ( if it can get any worse ) is that Pierce plays it all with the straightest of faces even while wearing short-shorts and waving a gun at guy in a monkey suit . And his narration is just as bad ( or should I say funny ) . His unnatural style of delivery , combined with some incredibly corny lines about the beauty of nature , is laugh out loud funny . Unintentionally , Boggy Creek II is a laugh riot !
Lame and Tame	If you've never seen Mamie Van Doran , imagine a low-rent Jayne Mansfield with even less talent . If you need proof , take a look at 3 Nuts in Search of a Bolt . In this one , Van Doran plays Saxie Symbol ( oh , how clever ) , an out of work stripper who happens to have two male roommates . As luck would have it , all three are in need of therapy , but that costs more than the trio can scrape together . So they decide to hire out-of-work method-actor Tommy Noonan ( played surprisingly enough by Tommy Noonan ) to learn all he can about the three roommates and act like each during a single therapy session . That way , they hope to get three diagnosis and cures for the price of one . It shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone that Noonan is diagnosed as suffering from split personalities . Unfortunately , the movie still has about another hour of runtime to go . I can sum up my feelings toward 3 Nuts in Search of a Bolt with two words ? lame and tame . This is supposed to be a comedy , but you've got to look hard to find anything approaching humorous . I wasn't expecting something that would have me doubled over with laughter , but I'm not even sure I cracked a smile during the entire movie . Van Doran's acting isn't that bad in comparison with the rest of the cast , but that's not really a compliment . Something tells me that Van Doran wasn't brought on board for her abilities as a thespian anyway . But other than a " blink and you'll miss it " bathtub scene , 3 Nuts in Search of a Bolt has very few of the salacious moments promised in the trailer . Noonan not only stars in this thing , but he's also has the distinction of being credited as the co-writer , co-producer , and director of this mess . Good going , Tommy !
" Look boys , I'm a hot dog ! "	I've got nothing against movies that are a bit offbeat , weird , or even bizarre ? in fact , the obscure usually attracts me . And Pink Angels is certainly one offbeat , weird , and even bizarre movie . The plot ( or what there is of it ) involves a group of gay bikers headed to Los Angeles who run afoul of a band of Hell's Angels types and a straight-laced military type . Unfortunately , Pink Angels is also one incredibly bad movie . Just because something is different doesn't make it good . Nothing about this movie is least bit entertaining . It's supposed to be a comedy , but I didn't so much as smile ? let alone laugh . Some might say it's a product of it's time , but I can't imagine anyone with a pulse in any decade finding this stinker worth watching . The over-the-top gay stereotypes aren't funny . For example , there's a whole sequence involving candelabras and champagne at a picnic with grubby bikers . Funny ? Not at all . And the subplot involving the General is just plain old stupid . Weak production values , bad acting , and one pointless scene after the next only add to the misery . I've given Pink Angels an extra point for curiosity value , but that's the only reason . My recommendation ? don't waste your time .
Butterfingers of the Old West	There are a handful of generally unknown actors that I enjoy seeing in just about anything . One of those people is Douglass Dumbrille . From A Day at the Races with the Marx Brothers to Castle in the Desert with Charlie Chan , I always look forward to Dumbrille's performances . In Last of the Wild Horses , he plays the wheelchair-bound owner of the Double C ranch . His performance is by far the best thing this movie has going for it . Now that I think about it , Douglass Dumbrille is probably the only thing Last of the Wild Horses has going for it . The movie is one of those utterly dull , white-bread kind of Westerns where no one gets dirty and the good guys always win . It's the kind of Western that always seemed to feature an annoying comic relief character that you just wanted to see someone put a bullet through . All it lacks is a cowboy with a guitar to make my stomach really turn . But the most unforgivable part of Last of the Wild Horses is the way director Robert Lippert continually cheats to keep the plot moving . On three different occasions , people conveniently drop evidence that is later found and used to advance the story . From a branding iron to a letter to a bandana ? Last of the Wild Horses would have us believe that the cowboys of the Old West were a bunch of butterfingers .
That was painful	While the premise behind The House Where Evil Dwells may be intriguing , the execution is downright pathetic . I'm not even sure where to begin as I've got so many problems with this movie . I suppose I'll just number a few of them : 1 . The Acting ? When you see that Edward Albert , Doug McClure , and Susan George ( and her teeth ) are the stars of your movie , you know you're in trouble ? Not that it matters much to me , but these are hardly A-List names . Susan George may have been in a couple of movies I enjoy , but I've never considered her the greatest actress I've ever seen . And in this movie , her acting is embarrassing . As for the other two , the less said the better . 2 . The Ghosts ? The ghosts or spirits or whatever you want to call them reminded me quite a bit of the ghosts in the haunted mansion ride . at Disney World . And , they are about as frightening . And why did they have to be so obvious ? Subtlety is not a characteristic of The House Where Evil Dwells . 3 . The Plot ? How predictable can one movie be ? The outcome of this movie is painfully obvious once you meet the three main characters . If you couldn't see where this movie was headed after about 15 minutes , you need to see more movies . 4 . The Convenient Priest ? What are the chances that the haunted house you buy just happens to be across the street from a group of Japanese monks ? Not to mention that one of them knows the history of your house and comes over , knocks on the door , and asks if you need help removing evil spirits . Absurd is a word that comes to mind . 5 . Everything Else ? It's very difficult for me to think of any positives to write about . I suppose I'll give it a point for the opening scene and a point for the house's architecture . That's a sure sign of a winner ? noting the architecture as a highlight of any film doesn't say much about the actual movie . I'll stop . You should be able to get the idea from what I've already mentioned . And , I haven't even mentioned the annoying little girl or the Invasion of the Crabs or a multitude of other problems . Be warned , this thing is horrible .
None of it is in the least bit interesting	There's really no need to go into plot details ? with a movie this bad they hardly matter . Suffice it to say that what plot there is involves three ( at least I think it was three ? but it might have been two ? not that anyone should give a rat's patooty ) stones that , when put together , give the holder some sort of power ( at least I think that's the point of the stones ) . Yada , yada , yada ? who cares ? None of it is in the least bit interesting anyway . I don't think you could make something as bad as Deathstalker and the Warriors from Hell even if you tried . It's horrible in every conceivable way ? bad acting , poor direction , nonsensical plot , lame special effects , and everything else you can think of . In all honesty , I cannot think of many movies that I would call worse than this pile of garbage . So , you may ask , " if it's so bad , why not rate it a ? " My answer ? while it's as bad a movie as you'll run across , Deathstalker and the Warriors from Hell features a few moments of complete unintentional humor that did bring something resembling a smile to my face . I realize that giving the movie a point based on a couple of ridiculous moments might not be the best way to rate a movie , but it's not like I gave it a . is still bad ! I actually watched the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of the movie . While I enjoy ( ed ) MST3K , I'm one of those who sincerely believe that the movies featured on the show should be judged on their own merits . You shouldn't assume that just because a movie was lampooned on television that it's a bad movie . Tastes and opinions vary . So even some of the real stinkers that appeared on MST3K like Manos or Skydivers , I've seen without the riffing . But in the case of Deathstalker and the Warriors from Hell , I cannot imagine watching it on its own . It's so bad and features so very little in the way of entertainment that MST3k appears to be the only way to go .
Horrible	I usually begin one of these with a short synopsis of the plot , but with The Ring Two , I don't see any point . There's very little new ground covered or explored in this movie . While I found The Ring reasonably entertaining , it's a veritable masterpiece when compared with the sequel . The Ring Two lacks almost everything that made the first film enjoyable . Gone is the suspense and horror created by Samara . This is a problem with a lot of sequels , but in The Ring Two , Samara is presented with little fanfare or any real surprise from any of the characters . She's just there . Gone is the atmosphere . Atmosphere is replaced by cheap CGI effects and cheap jump scares . A CGI Samara is bad enough , but what was the idea behind those crazy CGI deer ? Gone is any mystery . The search for Samara's origins was one of my favorite aspects of The Ring . The attempt at mystery here is hardly worth the effort . Most of it is a rehash of what we saw in the first movie . But the part that bugged me the most was the decision to change the rules . In The Ring , Samara is tied to the videotape . She would appear seven days after the tape was watched to kill the viewer . Ten minutes into The Ring Two , the videotape is all but forgotten . Instead , we are presented with a whole new set of rules for Samara . She can now appear at any time . She can affect dreams . She can physically affect reality in some major ways . Finally , what was Sissy Spacek doing in this movie ? Have things really gotten so bad for actresses of Spacek's caliber that they have been reduced to making cameos in drivel like this ?
" I could sure go for a charbroiled hamburger sammich and some french-fried potatoes . "	Beyond being a bad , terribly dull movie , I have a bigger problem with Jungle Goddess ? racism . I'm not sure why it bothers me so much in this movie when I can let it go in movies with similar racial incidents like any of the Tarzan movies , but it really bothered me here . The characters ( an by this I mean the white characters ) attitudes toward the shooting of an innocent native is so nonchalant . It's no big deal to any of them . You kill a human being and then have the nerve to feel you're being wronged by the other members of his tribe because they want and expect retribution ? it's something my 21st Century sensibilities cannot comprehend . And it's not just the " bad " guy . The " good " characters have the same " no big deal " attitude . I honestly think it bothered me so much in Jungle Goddess because the movie is so bad there's nothing to take the edge of these scenes . The racial attitudes of the 1940s were given the opportunity to stand front and center and show just how repulsive they really were . Okay , off the soapbox for a bit . As I say , Jungle Goddess is Dull with a capital " D " . None of the three main actors ( George Reeves , Wanda McKay , and Ralph Byrd ) seems capable of displaying any of the realistic emotions you might expect from someone lost in the jungle . In fact , McKay plays it much like a little girl going to a tea party . It's completely unbelievable . Speaking of unbelievable , the sets are some of the worst I've seen . You can find more realistic looking plastic plants at the local Wal Mart . And the stock footage scenes of animals don't help at all . It's all too obvious that the characters are no where near the animals . Add it up ? cheap sets , dull script , and uninspired acting make for one very bad movie .
" Oh , no ! Not the bees ! Not the bees ! "	What a freakin ' joke ! The 1973 version of The Wicker Man is a true classic and one of the most powerful movies I've ever seen . The final scenes have lost nothing and remain as strong today as they were over 30 years ago . The 2006 version of The Wicker Man manages to take most everything that made the original such a wonderfully compelling piece of cinema and chuck it out the window . How you can take out the religious and sexual aspects that were a focus of the original story and still call it The Wicker Man ? And what do you use to replace the religious and sexual aspects so key to understanding the central character ? Bees ! Yes , that's right ? bees , for God's sake ! What an insult ! There's a story that the original negatives of the 1973 film were buried in a landfill under a roadway in England . Why couldn't it have been the 2006 abomination ?
Insulting	- I finally got around to watching Freddy vs . Jason last night . My immediate reaction : I don't understand how anyone who considers themselves fans of Freddy , Jason , or horror movies in general could enjoy this piece of garbage . The movie is an insult to the intelligence of any thinking fan of horror . I could almost feel my IQ dropping while the movie played . Freddy and Jason have become parodies of themselves and are no long in the slightest frightening . Their final epic battle is little more than a poorly done video game . The CGI is terrible and completely unrealistic . I can understand a large man such as Jason being able to sink a heavy ax into someone's head , but punching someone so hard they fly through the air ? Come on ! This is superhero comic book stuff , not horror . - And whatever happened to character development ? Sure , the older movies in both series featured characters that weren't much more than stereotypes , but at least we were given a chance to get to know something about them before they died . Freddy vs . Jason doesn't even give the viewer the opportunity to determine who the jock , slut , dork , and good girl are before they are butchered . - Say what you will about the older movies in both series , but they come off like horror masterpieces compared with this thing . Unless you're a 13-year-old fanboy who has only seen one horror movie , I'll never fathom how anyone could place this movie at the top of a horror list or give it a rating of . And to top it off , there are actually people hoping for a sequel ! Count me out .
An absolute waste of time	A couple honeymooning in Transylvania is attacked by a ruthless group of killers . With the husband dead , the new bride , Justine ( Shirley Corrigan ) , finds safety in the home of her rescuer , Waldemar ( Paul Naschy ) . But Justin learns of Waldemar's " illness " that causes him to turn into a werewolf when the moon is full . Justine is certain that her friend in London , Dr . Jekyll ( Jack Taylor ) , may be able to help Waldemar . Will Dr . Jekyll's cure work ? Or will more people die at the hands of the werewolf ? What Works : - Nothing . I can't think of anything in Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf worth recommending . It's really quite bad . I haven't rated it a because , in comparison , it's not as wretched as most of the movies I've rated at the very bottom . What Doesn't Work : - Paul Naschy . I realize that Naschy made a boatload of werewolf movies and is generally considered a cult icon . Why ? I don't know . I've never understood the appeal of Naschy or his brand of werewolf . Naschy is one of the more unappealing " stars " of horror . He is terrible at playing the sympathetic figure , which I think is necessary for the character of the tormented werewolf . Also , Naschy is just too small to effectively play the role . His midget werewolf just doesn't work for me . - The Acting . None of the acting , including Naschy , is very good . The worst is Corrigan as the stranded bride , Justine . She only appears capable of two emotions : fear , which she is terrible at playing and always ends in screaming , and sadness , which is equally annoying and always ends in crying . What range ! - The Lack of Anything Found in a Good Horror Movie . The things I look for in a horror movie include atmosphere , suspense , tension , and plot . You can forget about atmosphere , suspense , and tension . All the horror elements in Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf are treated like everyday , common occurrences and nothing to be afraid of . In fact , the group who kills the husband is more menacing than the werewolf . As for plot , the movie does have one , but it makes so little sense and is filled with the most ridiculous sounding science that it's impossible to take seriously . In the end , I found Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf to be a complete waste of time . I don't remember enjoying a single frame . And it's not cheesy enough to be bad in that " so bad it's good " sort of way . I really do try to enjoy Naschy's films . I'll keep trying , but for now , I'm not impressed .
The Killer Kimono	There's as much wasted potential in Crucible of Terror as I remember seeing recently . Part of the film's problem is the muddled plot . Things get off to a decent start with an artist who uses a woman as the base for his bronze sculpture . Think of it as House of Wax without the wax . 99 % of the movie follows this plot thread as those around the artist are murdered by a crazed killer . One of the characters says something about some sort of Satanic type stuff , but it's only mentioned in passing . It's a " blink and you'll miss it " type moment . So the ending comes out of nowhere and abandons most everything that's happened by reintroducing the crazy religious stuff in the final five minutes . Huh ? Where did that come from ? It's got to be one of the worst twist endings I've seen . The shift in gears at the end of Crucible of Terror might have been more palatable had I actually cared about any of the characters by the time it rolled around . For a film that features so many characters being killed , it's terribly dull . Other than watching a lecherous Mike Raven put the moves on anything in a skirt , there's not much going on . Sure , people die , but why should I have cared . None of the characters seemed to notice their friends were going missing . Beyond the plot and the unlikable characters , most of the rest of the movie is just as bad . The editing is sloppy . Characters are killed in rooms that seem to be next to one another , yet no on seems to notice even though the victims scream and make other appropriate noises . The acting is weak . The lisping Mike Raven cannot carry the film . He's a very poor imitation of Christopher Lee . You know you're in trouble when Raven is the best " actor " in the cast . The set design and special effects are bad . I think I could build a more realistic looking forge in my basement . Finally , could Crucible of Terror have included anymore horror clichs ? I've seen nutty characters , cars that won't start , and almost everything else in this movie a million times .
Child abuse as entertainment	Man , how times have changed ! If you believe what you see in Junior Rodeo Daredevils , it seems that in the 1940s , any crazy stranger could take your kid , strap him / her to some sort of livestock , and watch them get thrown to the hard ground . Oh what fun - child abuse as entertainment ! What parent wouldn't want a broken neck or a ruptured spleen for their child ? Instead of being brought up on charges , Old-Timer Billy Slater gets to sit back and enjoy the sight of children having their necks snapped . It did my heart good to see this crazy old coot laugh like a hyena as one child after the next received severe head trauma . Yes , Junior Rodeo Daredevils is certainly one of the most demented sights I've ever seen . Mystery Science Theater 3000 did a wonderful job with this short . The riffing possibilities were abundant and the guys took full advantage . Much of it is laugh-out-loud funny . On my MST3K rating scale , Junior Rodeo Daredevils gets a .
" Satan has become an embarrassment to our progressive views . "	Exorcist II : The Heretic is a difficult movie to write about . The things that don't work or the things that are totally ridiculous are the very reasons to watch the movie . It's an absolute mess and a helluva good time because of it . The plot - don't worry about the plot . It might make your head explode if you think too much about it . I'll give it a try , but you've been warned . Since the events of the first movie , Regan ( Linda Blair ) has grown to be a teenager with some sort of mental problems and a desire to perform in really bad musicals . Her mother has disappeared leaving her in the care of Dr . Tuskin ( Louise Fletcher ) . Dr . Tuskin's idea of treatment is to have Regan stare at a blinking light bulb until she enters into a trance like state . Father Lamont ( Richard Burton ) shows up to study Regan's case and to announce at every opportunity he can find that there is still an eeeevil presence inside Regan . From this point forward , you really need to see it to believe it . John Boorman had what many people would consider one of the best horror movies ever made to work with when making the sequel . But at every opportunity , he takes Exorcist II into some of the most ridiculous places imaginable . He tries to get artsy , but fails miserably and ends up making scenes that should be horrific come off as silly . Take the scene where Father Lamont snaps and goes after Regan . What should have been a shocking moment is instead incredibly funny . I'm convinced that no matter how hard you tried you couldn't make a sequel this bad on purpose . The cast doesn't help Boorman at all . None of the three main leads escapes this movie looking good . First , there's Richard Burton . He chews through this movie and spits it out like a John Deere through foot high grass . Burton looks like a buffoon who overacts almost every moment he appears on screen . Next , there's Linda Blair . I like Linda Blair , but I've never thought she was much of an actress . And she proves this in Exorcist II . Her lines are delivered with all the conviction of a prostitute in church . And those dance numbers are just short of painful . Finally , Louise Fletcher acts throughout much of the movie as if she would rather be anywhere other than here . She comes across as bored , uninterested , and embarrassed to be part of this debacle . There's no end to what I could write about this movie , but I'll stop here . One of the best reviews I've ever read can be found here - http twtd bluemountains net au Rick exorcist2 htm You owe it to yourself to check it out .
Haven't I seen this before ?	Twelve scientists from around the world are selected to be part of the crew that will be the first to land on the moon . Once there , they begin their work , but it doesn't take long before they realize they are not alone . A mysterious underground race of beings kidnaps two of the crew members and demands the others leave at once . In their haste to get away , another scientist is lost in an accident . As they near Earth on their return , they discover the inhabitants of the moon have frozen all of North America . They come up with a plan to use the heat of a volcano to reverse the freezing process . But this will require the sacrifice of two members of their party to fly the ship into a volcanic crater . Will their plan work ? I would be willing to overlook a lot of 12 to the Moon's shortcomings if the movie had any originality . Many of the plot points and set-pieces seem to be almost identical to those found in First Spaceship on Venus . While IMDb lists a release date of 1962 for First Spaceship on Venus , that's the North American release date . The film was released in early 1960 in West Germany . It would have been more than possible for someone to have seen that movie before making 12 to the Moon . I have no idea if I'm right about this , but if you've seen both movies , you undoubtedly noticed the similarities as I did . Beyond the films lack of originality , 12 to the Moon is pretty much a mess . Visible scaffolding and crew members , cheap looking sets , and an unnecessary Nazi subplot are among the many problems found in the movie . I'm not including the poor special effects in this list because , as bad as they are , I've seen far worse in other movies of this type . And besides , who doesn't expect to find problems with the special effects in a movie like 12 to the Moon ? that's part of the charm of sci-fi films from the 50s and early 60s .
What a waste !	What's up with David Janssen ? I've seen any number of films he stars in and I've yet to see why or how the guy made so many films , especially late in his career . I know he made some good stuff early on like The Fugitive , but does anyone find the David Janssen that appeared in The Swiss Conspiracy appealing ? Are we really supposed to believe the scenes of him in bed with Senta Berger ? I'm not buying it for a second . He's got that greasy , unwashed look to him like he's on a three-day bender and has had one too many bottles of Scotch and just finished his third pack of cigarettes before noon . Actors like Clint Eastwood can scowl through a whole movie and look tough . Janssen just looks like he's got some sort of lower intestinal problem . And what's with that hair ? Why in the world would anyone grow their sideburns long enough to comb them back over their ears ? Did he really think that was a good look ? As for The Swiss Conspiracy , there's a reason you can buy it in the U . S . for $1 from every public domain company to come down the pike ? it's not very good . It's amazing that you can take a cast that includes the aforementioned Janssen ( regardless of my rant , I still like him ) , Senta Berger , John Saxon , John Ireland , Elke Sommer , Ray Milland , and Anton Diffring and make something this bad . Each of these actors appeared in any number of films that I enjoy . But not here . Part of the problem is that most of these actors are so underutilized that you wonder what made them want to do this film in the first place . Take John Saxon . His tough , Chicago hood character would have been great had he stuck around for more than 10 minutes . What a waste !
Another Gawd awful TV pilot	It doesn't take long to see why Code Name : Diamond Head didn't make it onto the network schedules . The TV pilot movie doesn't get past the credits before it's obvious just how bad it's going to be . Maybe I missed something , because the plot didn't make a whole lot of sense . Based on what I got out of the muddled mess , a terrorist or thief or something named " Tree " ( Ian McShane ) goes to Hawaii to steal something to do with a secret weapon . The world's dullest secret agent , Johnny Paul ( Roy Thinnes ) , is out to stop him . There might have been more , but trust me ? it really doesn't matter anyway . Action movies should have action . Suspenseful moments should have suspense . And dramatic moments should have drama . There's none of that in Code Name : Diamond Head . I've seen others use the word " turgid " to describe this made for TV snoozer ? and it's better than any one word description I can come up with . None of the characters is in the least bit exciting or worth caring about . And Roy Thinnes makes for the worst leads imaginable . His charisma is just slightly north of a slug . Ian McShane is easily the best thing the movie has going for it , but unfortunately for everyone else involved , it doesn't appear he was going to be back as a regular cast member . Now if McShane had been cast in the series lead , well then you might have had something . I'm quickly discovering that these Gawd awful 70s made-for-TV movies make great Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes . And that goes double if Quinn Martin was involved . Very funny stuff from Mike and the Bots . So while I may only give the movie a , I rate Episode # 608 a on my MST3K rating scale .
Not as much fun as the other Cardona movies I've seen	Cyclone's plot features a group of people stranded at sea after a cyclone rolls through leaving them with little water or food . The movie examines the lengths these people will go through to survive . I have now seen three films directed by Rene Cardona , Jr . and Cyclone is easily my least favorite . While it has its moments of weirdness , overall it is neither as sleazy as Tintorera nor as bizarre as The Treasure of the Amazon . For the most part , it's just plain dull and nowhere near as fun as the other two Cardona movies I mentioned . Add to that some bad acting , bad special effects , bad gore , and a bad script and you've got the makings for a bad movie . Animal lovers beware . Cyclone features one scene in particular that is as cruel a scene as I've ever seen . I realize that the animal probably wasn't hurt , but I found it repulsive nonetheless .
Oh , this is bad ! ! !	This has got to be one of the most inept pieces of film-making I've ever seen . The original Steve Reeves ' Hercules is a cinematic marvel compared with this drek . If it weren't so laughable it would be unwatchable . Just a few of my favorite moments include : 1 . The 5 + minute prologue that covers the creation of the solar system . It's so ridiculous in its seriousness . 2 . Hercules ' fight scene with a brown carpet . . . er , I mean a brown bear . 3 . The river that Hercules diverts not only cleans the stable , but also buffs the floor . 4 . Sword fights with sound effects that seem to have been inspired by all the sci-fi movies and video games of the era . The sound effects are reminiscent of what you might get if you crossed Star Wars with Pac Man . 5 . The chariot ride through outer space . 6 . This line of dialogue spoken by the King of the Gods , Zeus , on the Earth's chances of defeating evil , " It will go down to destruction , or else it will survive . " Duh ? Hercules is so bad that it gave me one of best laughs I've had in a while . I had forgotten how unintentionally funny it really is . That's why I can't bring myself to rate it any lower . If you've ever wanted to do your own home version of Mystery Science Theater 3000 , Hercules would make a good candidate . It's sad that the best thing I can think of about Hercules are the outfits worn by Ariadne , Cassiopea , and Circe .
" Stop that bawling , you're driving us all nuts ! "	Horrors of Spider Island is about as cheap and schlocky as a movie can get . The movie is about a group of Euro-broads and their manager , Gary . The group of strippers . . . err , I mean dancers . . . is headed to Singapore for some unknown reason - must have been a shortage of bad dancers in Southeast Asia . On the way , their plane miraculously turns into a stock footage WWII era bomber , catches fire , and plummets at full speed into the ocean . Even more miraculous , none of the dancers ( or Gary ) has so much as a scratch . After floating around in a life raft for a few days , they spot an island . In one of the movies many ridiculous moments ( wait a minute , the whole thing is ridiculous ) , after reaching shore , Gary carries the woman one at a time to safety . The women seem incapable of movement until Gary announces he's found water . The girls are immediately on their feet and in herd fashion with lots of overdubbed " oohs " and " aahs " and other such random murmurings , the girls race to the water . Feeling refreshed , they begin their exploration of the island and stumble upon a cabin . Inside , they find the dead body of a Prof . Green caught in an incredibly large spider web . The girls run in fear as the beefy Gary removes the body . Without a second thought , the girls move in as if nothing ever happened . I guess it never occurred to any of these Einsteins that there must be a giant spider to go with that giant spider web . The inevitable occurs and the group of tired , hot Euro-babes start to get on each others nerves . Before you can say " Catfight " , two of the girls are at each others throats . To cool off , the girls decide to strip down and sleep on the cabin's porch . Gary goes for a walk to " clear his head " and is never seen again . Gary has run into the giant spider ( really it's more of a spider-muppet with crab legs and monkey hands ) that no one seemed to be overly concerned with . Gary is bitten and instantly turns into some sort of poorly made-up were-spider . Half man , half spider ? Gary now stalks the girls from a safe distance . He does , however , somehow manage to get hold of one of the girls and strangle her to death . Other than that , Gary pretty much remains in the background until the movie's final reel . About to run out of food and other supplies , things are looking desperate for the girls . Survivalists they ain't ! As luck would have it , two guys show up with fresh supplies for the professor . The girls are so excited they're about to be saved ( but probably not as excited as the two guys who have just discovered an island full of strippers . . . oops , did it again . . . I mean dancers ) that they forget all about their missing manager or their dead friend or anything else and decide to throw a bikini dance party . Makes perfect sense to me ! So , what happens next ? What about the dance party ? Are the girls saved ? Do they ever make it to dancer-starved Singapore ? I can't possibly answer those questions without giving away the movie's thrilling climax . You'll just have to watch it and find out for yourself . But consider yourself warned ? as I said in the opening , Horrors of Spider Island is about as cheap and schlocky as a movie can get . Poor acting , poor special effects , no plot to speak of , abysmal production values , the worst dubbing imaginable , and stock footage at every turn . It's one bad movie ! But , I must add that Horrors of Spider Island isn't so bad that there aren't a few entertaining moments . Granted , most are of the unintentionally hilarious variety , but they're there just the same . If you've got a sense of humor about these things , Horrors of Spider Island is a gold mine of movie cheese .
Positives : Senta Berger - Negatives : Everything Else	I readily admit that I watch a lot of really bad movies . But there are very few that I can think of that are quite as bad as When Women Had Tails . It's a stinker of epic proportions . What should have been a sexy comedy about a group of cavemen discovering a woman for the first time is instead a dull , lifeless affair without a single laugh to be had . The comedy is extremely weak . I suppose if you think bashing someone in the head is funny , you might find a laugh or two . The guys in this movie make the Three Stooges look like high art . And there's just not enough of a plot to hold the thing together . It seems to drag on and on and on . Well , you may be asking yourself , " If it's as bad as you say , why haven't you rated it lower than a ? " Good question ! And I've got two answers . First , the movie is not without its curiosity value . I do find a bit of interest in an Italian spoof of movies like One Million Years B . C . with Raquel Welch . I'll give When Women Had Tails a point for its historic " value " . The other two points are for the mere presence of Senta Berger . I know it's not much of an explanation or reasoning for a rating , but what are you going to do ? It's the best I can come up with .
Not Bava - - - - - - SPOILERS - - - - - -	Having read comparisons between this movie and Mario Bava's films , I'd looked forward to seeing it for sometime . It's the story of a horribly disfigured woman who goes to a doctor for some unconventional treatments . It seems he has developed a serum that will restore the woman's beauty . But , the serum must be applied regularly and the supply soon runs out . As the doctor has fallen in love with the woman , he must do whatever it takes to get the ingredients to make more serum ? even if that means killing other women . Let's see , comparisons with Bava . 1 . Black & white ? so is Bava's Black Sunday . 2 . Well , there really isn't a 2 as far as I'm concerned . Atom Age Vampire makes most other " slow " movies seem like roller coaster rides . I actually had to wake myself twice and rewind the movie . Also , while I'm generally one of those people that will defend dubbing in Italian movies , I can't do that here . This is one of the first times I can actually say that the dubbing got in the way of my enjoyment of a movie .
" Look at the size of that footprint ! "	I don't quite understand the reviews for Lost Continent on IMDb . Most of the users who have taken the time to write a review have rated the movie a 5 or better . Huh ? What did I miss ? Sure , it's not the worst movie I've ever seen , but come on ! Lost Continent is about as exciting as watching grass grow or watching paint dry or any other tired , old clich you can think of . It's deathly dull ! It seems that at least half of the movie is devoted to watching the characters either climb a mountain or just walk around . As a viewer , you get to watch all six characters going over the same boulder - and doing so very slowly - and without any tension or suspense - and often without any background music . And when our group of intrepid explorers isn't climbing over the same stage-bound rock for the fourth time , they're walking through a fake looking jungle . Actually , they're not really walking as it seems each time the camera cuts to them they're taking a fifteen minute break . How exciting is that ! They don't do much and nothing much happens to them . Two-thirds of the movie is over before the first dinosaur makes an appearance . I realize that Lost Continent was made with a very small budget , but these dinosaurs are terrible . Movies made 20 years previous had better looking stop motion special effects . But as I wrote earlier , Lost Continent is far from the worst movie I've seen . The acting alone keeps this thing from being a total waste of time . The name actors in Lost Continent are Cesar Romero and Hugh Beaumont . Both do a decent enough job , but they're not given much to stretch their acting abilities . Also present , as he was in seemingly everything made in the 50s and 60s , is Whit Bissell . The name might not be recognizable , but most fans of older films would be familiar with the face and voice .
" I said the wheel felt mushy ! "	San Francisco International ( SFI for the rest of this ) follows what I've started calling a Love Boat style of plot development . You know ? a movie or television show with an ensemble cast where each character has their own storyline that may or may not have anything to do with the other characters . One plot line is deadly serious , another is romantically charged , the next is played for laughs , and on and on it goes . I don't know where the Love Boat plot style first originated , but SFI follows this to a " T " . The story lines in SFI include : a boy , upset over his parents divorce , climbs into an abandoned plane and takes off ; a band of crooks robs a shipment of cash going through the airport ; seeking additional funding for the airport , airport head honcho Jim Conrad ( Pernell Roberts ) fakes an emergency landing with a planeload of government officials ; a businessman and a hippie get into an altercation ; etc . But being a 70s made-for-TV movie , you know everything is going to work out fine in the end ? not that you really care or anything . There are several reasons why SFI never made it to our television sets as a regular series . And chief among them as far as I'm concerned is Pernell Roberts . Being self-assured is one thing , but Roberts ' character comes off as one of the smuggest in history . He's too unlikable to care about any of his problems and whether they get resolved or not . You can't build a series around a horses rear-end like Jim Conrad and expect anyone to watch . As with a lot of the " bad " movies I've been watching lately , I saw SFI courtesy of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . And as far as a MST3K episode goes , SFI is a keeper . A laugh at every turn . If you're a fan of the show , do yourself a favor and seek it out . This one gets a on my MST3K rating scale .
Major Disappointment	- From the moment I saw this listed as on the Mondo Macabro website , I was intrigued . It looked good and the reviews I read were mostly positive . So when it was finally released , I couldn't wait to get my hands on it . After watching it , I wish I would have waited . - What a major disappointment . Right from the start , I knew that Panic Beats couldn't meet my expectations . The whole look and feel of the film is terrible . It has that straight-to-video look that usually destroys atmosphere . The sets are nothing special at all . Most of the film looks like it could have been shot in my house . The story is incredibly predictable . There are a lot of twists and turns in the plot , but most are telegraphed from a mile away . The gore scenes are horribly done . And the whole concept of a knight that comes back from the dead is straight out of Scooby Doo . It's not a very frightening image . - Paul Naschy does his best to provide some chills . With raised eyebrows and a menacing stare , he does his best to look frightening . But for the most part , it doesn't work . The most frightening scenes are of Naschy naked in the bathtub . Now that had me screaming . - As for Mondo Macabro's disc , it's very well done . I have no complaints with the image , sound , or subtitles . The extras are quite nice , including a brief history of Spanish horror .
Move along - nothing to see here	For reasons I cannot begin to fathom , Dr . Lorenzo Cameron ( George Zucco ) begins injecting wolf's blood into his dim-witted handyman , Petro ( Glenn Strange ) . The result ? Petro is transformed into a hideous ( as hideous as someone with a bad wig and pointy teeth can be ) killer beast . Dr . Cameron uses Petro to get his revenge against those in the scientific community who scoffed at and ridiculed his ideas ( and why wouldn't they , Dr . Cameron's nuttier than a fruitcake ) . Overall , The Mad Monster is one dull and poorly made Poverty Row thriller . There's really only one positive I can come up with to write about in The Mad Monster . George Zucco can be fun to watch as he plays the mad scientist about as well as anyone . His Dr . Cameron is a regular loony . He has no qualms about killing ; he has entire conversations with people who aren't there ; and , as with most mad scientists , he messes in " God's domain " ( actually , I'm not sure anyone accuses him of this , but it fits ) . But beyond Zucco , there's nothing here to recommend . Everything else from the monster effects to the supporting cast to the music is plain old bad . There are far better examples of Poverty Row horror from the 1940s than The Mad Monster .
Focus , Franco ! Focus !	- The beginning of the movie doesn't stray far from what you might expect - Dr . Frankenstein and his assistant are transplanting a brain into their creature . The transplant works and the monster is not only capable of performing simple tasks , but can think and speak . But before the Doc has time to celebrate his victory , he is interrupted by Melissa , the Bird Woman . She kills the Doctor and assistant and takes the monster to her master , Cagliostro . He has other plans for the creature . Dr . Frankenstein's monster will be the father of a new race of supermen . - First , a word of warning . I bought Image's The Rites of Frankenstein that came out August 9 , 2005 . I didn't pay much attention and just assumed it would be the edition that is commonly known as The Erotic Rites of Frankenstein - a movie I've wanted to see for a while . But this version is actually the Spanish movie - La Maldicin de Frankenstein . The big difference is that the Spanish movie is heavily cut ( meaning all the naughty bits are cut out ) and extra scenes with Lina Romay have been added ( which do nothing for the movie ) . It seems that almost everything you normally look for in a Franco film has been left on the Spanish editing room floor . I'm positive my rating and opinion of this movie would improve when and if I ever get a chance to see the real thing . - For those unfamiliar with Franco , a first time viewing can be puzzling and jarring . To begin with , Franco has a tendency to put shots in his films that are totally unrelated to the story . The scenes I mentioned with Lina Romay are the perfect example . They're just there . Sometimes Franco will allow his camera to linger on an inanimate object for what seems like an eternity . In this movie we get a random , close-up shot of a tree for no purpose that I could see . Shooting things out of focus doesn't appear to bother Franco . There were a couple of scenes in The Rites of Frankenstein where I had to stop myself from yelling " Focus , Franco . Focus " . There are other examples as I've just scratched the surface of what you're likely to see in an average Franco movie . Whether you like them or not , his movies provide an experience like no other . - Visually , Franco has filled The Rites of Frankenstein with all sorts of treats ( at least what wasn't cut from my version ) . I've already mentioned Melissa , the Bird Woman . She's a blind half-bird / half-woman with steel looking talons , green feathers , and an appetite for human flesh . That's definitely something you don't see everyday . Franco could have made the whole movie about her and it might have been more interesting . Frankenstein's monster has a unique look - he's completely silver . Cagliostro has the ability to summon the undead . The site of these shrouded figures wandering through the forest is one of the highlights of the movie . - But mixed with these interesting scenes , Franco has seen fit to include some ridiculous moments . One of my " favorites " in The Rites of Frankenstein are continual close-ups of Cagliostro's eyes . Somehow Howard Vernon was able to go the entire movie without blinking and , for some reason known only to him , Franco felt compelled to show us Vernon's non-blinking eyes over and over and over and . . . . Don't ask why - it's Franco . I'm convinced they had a representative from Guinness and were going for some sort of world record . - In short , if you're a fan of Franco , you might find some enjoyment in the movie - but wait for the uncut version . If you don't like Franco , skip it all together .
" Get me my hypo-gun - quickly ! "	A group of students stumble upon a cavern in the English countryside . Inside they discover an ape-like creature that just might be the missing link between apes and man . Dr . Brockton ( Joan Crawford ) takes an interest in the boys ' discovery and begins a study of the troglodyte that she nicknames Trog . Just as Dr . Brockton's experiments begin to show some promise , opposition to her experiments takes shape in the form of Sam Murdock ( Michael Gough ) who would like to see Trog destroyed . He tries to do just that and accidentally sets Trog loose to go on a murderous rampage . Trog is the kind of movie I really want to like . As far as camp appeal goes , it's got it in spades . The mere sight of Joan Crawford patting a poorly made-up ape / man on the head or playing fetch with him or feeding him rubber lizards should be enough to endear Trog to me . But it never quite works that way . Why ? The movie is an interminable bore . By the time Trog goes on his rampage , it's too late . I've lost all interest . As others have commented , Trog certainly is an unfitting swan song for an actress as legendary as Joan Crawford . But you've really gotta hand it to her . A professional to the end . Her delivery and acting may come across as ridiculous and over-the-top given the material and subject matter she was presented with in Trog , but that's just Joan doing what she did best ? giving it her all .
You can't question Kelly's athletic ability , but his acting ability ? forget about it .	When a Hong Kong diplomat's daughter is kidnapped by drug smuggler / Satanist named Janicot , Robert Sand aka the Black Samurai ( Jim Kelly ) is called in to rescue the girl . And it's more than a job , it's personal . Sand and the girl have a relationship . Sand must use all his skill karate skill and training to bust up the bad guys and free the girl . In something I wrote recently about the movie 100 Rifles , I called Jim Brown " wooden " . That was before I saw Black Samurai . Jim Kelly makes Jim Brown look positively animated . Kelly may have been a martial arts master and good in the choreographed fights scenes , but a thespian he ain't . You can't question Kelly's athletic ability , but his acting ability ? forget about it . Believe it or not , Kelly isn't the worst this movie has to offer . Most of the rest of the cast is even worse . Everything about Black Samurai is , in a word , amateurish . The movie is a technical mess . Editing , cinematography , lighting , sound , etc . are horrible . Al Adamson has to be one of the most untalented directors ever . It's amazing he was able to find people willing to hire him to make so many movies . Ed Wood comes off looking like Alfred Hitchcock in comparison . Even with all the faults , and there are plenty , there is some entertainment value to be had in Black Samurai . Where else are you going to see Jim Kelly kicking butt , battling midgets , fighting a vulture , flying in a jet pack , and just being plain old cool ?
" Where do I get off asking the Regular Army for help with a bunch of oversize grasshoppers ? "	Bert I . Gordon really missed with this one . For a movie that features a band of giant , mutant grasshoppers terrorizing the Midwest , Beginning of the End is very dull . So dull in fact that I had to wake myself three or four times , reverse the movie , and start over again . With droopy eyes , I finally finished the 76 minute movie in 2 . 5 hours . It's disappointing really because I've really come to enjoy B . I . G . ' s low-budget brand of movie-making . Even when his movies aren't very good in the traditional sense , they're still usually good for a laugh or two . Not here . Likewise , I've come to really enjoy the giant bug movies of the 50s . Whether it's an ant , a spider , or a mantis , these movies are a fun watch . I wish B . I . G . could have done the same with grasshoppers .
" How do you reason with a 60 foot giant ? "	War of the Colossal Beat continues the story of Col . Glenn Manning that began in The Amazing Colossal Man . I'm not really sure why Mr . B . I . G . felt the need to do a sequel ( Who am I kidding ? He saw an opportunity to make some money . ) as there's really nothing new to cover . It's the same basic premise with the same low budget special effects and similar bad acting . Add a few plot details concerning Manning terrorizing the Mexican countryside and you've got War of the Colossal Beast . And that's the biggest problem I have with the movie . The whole thing has that " been there , don't that " feel to it . Still , if you're a fan of this kind of stuff like I am , there are moments to enjoy . For example , Manning's first appearance always catches me off-guard . I jump every time I watch the movie . Second , and it may seem silly , but I get a real kick out of the scene where Manning picks up the truck to eat the bread out of the back . Too funny ! Finally , I do like the ending . The added color is a very nice touch .
What's with the music ?	Daughters of Satan ( 1972 ) stars Tom Selleck before he was a star . The basic story : Selleck buys a painting depicting the burning of three witches . One of the witches bears a striking resemblance to his wife . Soon , she and two other women begin behaving in a very strange fashion . Selleck is sure that his wife and the other women are the spirits of the witches from the painting reincarnated . He must find a way to save not only his wife , but himself as well . While most of the movie isn't very good , some scenes work . There are even a few creepy moments . My personal favorite is when Selleck's wife is awoken in bed by a voice whispering her name . Another good scene is when the wife as a witch is stripped and whipped . Very well done . But , there are moments in the movie where nothing happens . It's almost as if the writers had no idea of what to do next , so we get to see exciting scenes like the wife staring at a window for 30 or so seconds . Most of the acting is forgettable . Selleck is okay , just a little green around the edges . Most of the rest of the cast is really bad . The housekeeper is especially bad . Most of her delivery is just so unnatural . The most annoying thing about the movie is the soundtrack . It has some of the most inappropriate music you'll likely encounter . The music never seems to fit the action happening on the screen .
I congratulate whoever pulled the plug on the television series	It's a romantic story that's as old as time ? boy meets girl , but girl is destined to wed Satan . Seriously , that's pretty much the whole plot . A girl is born and raised to make the perfect bride for Satan . Her whole life has been carefully planned and mapped-out for her . So when love enters her life , those who have worked to protect her must put a stop to this new threat . Good Against Evil is a 70s television movie that looks like a 70s television movie . Acting , sets , and other technical aspects are just what you would expect if you grew up in the 70s huddled around the television waiting for the Movie of the Week . Most everything in the movie is safe and sanitized and ready for general consumption . The exorcism scene , the supposed highlight of the movie , is subdued in comparison with others that have been dramatized on film . In fact , the whole movie could be described as subdued . It's incredibly slow-paced and predictable . It doesn't take a psychic to spot the twists and turns in the plot . And the ending is about as jarring a finale as I've seen . It seems that Good Against Evil was meant to become a regular , weekly television series . So the movie just abruptly ends with several unanswered questions and was to be continued in the next episode . The problem is there never was a next episode . The exception to almost everything I've written is the opening scene of the baby girl's birth and the death of her mother . In comparison with what follows , it's quite creepy . It's a dreamlike sequence that doesn't look or feel like the rest of the movie . Had the movie followed the tone of the opening set-piece , it might have been a much better movie .
What Mars really needs is something more exciting than this !	The message coming from space is clear ? Mars Needs Women ! A genetic malfunction has lead to a shortage of Martian women capable of producing offspring . An exploratory force is sent to Earth to collect a few suitable specimens to be used in reproductive experiments on Mars . The Martian scheme is going as planned until the Martian leader named Dop begins to fall for an Earth woman . His infatuation with the woman puts the entire Martian plan in question . Those crazy days of political incorrectness that were the 60s . It was a time when a movie about the abduction and rape of a group of women could be considered " family " entertainment . It was a time when a doctor specializing in space medicine was known first and foremost as a " stunning brunette " . She even insists on calling herself a " pretty girl with a PhD " . It certainly was a very different age . For a movie that stars Tommy Kirk and Yvonne Craig , I was expecting something along the lines of an intergalactic beach movie . I expected something light-hearted and fun . Mars Needs Women couldn't be much further from fun if it tried . It's too serious for its own good . So instead of fun , the movie dishes up a heaping helping of boredom . The whole concept behind the movie is too silly to attempt to play it this straight . Everyone involved needed to lighten up . Had they done so , Mars Needs Women might not have been so terribly dull ? and bad .
Avoid	- A small time hood tricks the local mob boss out of a lot of money . Of course the mob boss wants his money back and doesn't care who he has to kill to get it . The punk enlists his friend and an old mobster to help him save his life . - If this sounds ridiculous , it is . The whole idea that this Izod-wearing , dune buggy-driving punk could hold off one of the most powerful mobs in Rome is just plain silly . His friend may be good with a gun , but he's up against a group of trained killers . The old mobster is little more than comic relief and no real help when it comes to the face off with the mob . There's also a sub-plot about how the friend's father was killed years ago by the mob boss , but there's little made of it and it doesn't help the movie any at all . - The mob boss , Mister Scarface , is played by Jack Palance . I suppose he got the name because he has what looks like a shaving nick on his cheek . Palance is as ineffective as the rest of the cast , doing what he must to get a paycheck . - I've seen some pretty good Italian crime / cop flicks recently , but Mister Scarface isn't one of them . Check out Syndicate Sadists or Revolver instead .
Where's the voodoo ?	There is a reason for the 4 . 2 IMDb rating . This film isn't very good . The cast is fine . Boris Karloff stars along with a decent supporting cast including Elisha Cook Jr . ( Wilmer from The Maltese Falcon ) . The story concerns a group of people that go to investigate the strange happenings on an island in the Pacific . Other than a few man-eating plants ( that could have easily been avoided ) nothing much happens . There is very little voodoo to speak of . And when the group meets the voodoo chief on this PACIFIC island , he's a white guy . But my main problem with the film is the script . The actors are given some of the stupidest things to say I've ever heard . Any given character is likely to say or do anything at any given moment regardless of the situation . I would only recommend this to a Karloff completist .
I've never been a fan of Space : 1999 - and this changes nothing	I grew up during 1960s and 1970s and there's still a lot of television from this period that I enjoy ? The Avengers , Rat Patrol , Hogan's Heroes , Charlie's Angels , and Mission : Impossible just to name a few examples . I bring this up because Cosmic Princess is essentially two episodes of Space : 1999 , a syndicated sci-fi television program produced from 1975 to 1977 . I was never a fan so cobbling two episodes together and calling it a movie has very little appeal to me . In a word , it's as dull as dishwater . Things take forever to happen . It's tedious to the nth degree . The sets and scripts make the original Star Trek ( another show I'm not a big fan of ) look like they spent a fortune . Maybe someone who actually enjoyed Space : 1999 would find something to like about Cosmic Princess ( and I know the show has fans ) , but I'm not that person . Because Cosmic Princess is two episodes of Space : 1999 , there are two distinct plots . The first ( originally called The Metamorph ) finds the crew of Moonbase Alpha in the clutches of Mentor ( Brian Blessed ) who wants to drain their souls to power a machine he hopes to use to restore his planet to its former glory . I'll admit , Blessed's performance is a treat . The man is an awesome actor . The crew escapes with Mentor's daughter , Maya , just before the planet blows up . In the second half of Cosmic Princess ( originally titled Space Warp ) , Maya transforms herself into a hideous being and goes on a rampage attempting to escape and return to her home planet . The highlight of this segment is an unintentionally hilarious moon buggy chase . Like many people who have seen Cosmic Princess in the past few years , I did so via a low quality DVD-R of an old Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode . This particular episode of MST3K was part of the Minneapolis public-access run before the show hit the " big time " . Some of the jokes work , but like a lot of the KTMA shows , the riffs are far too inconsistent to call it good . I'll give it a on my MST3K rating scale .
One memorable moment cannot save a movie	A deranged frogman is kidnapping the most beautiful women of Venice and taking them to the sunken cathedral that serves as his lair . Once there , he dons a hooded robe and skull mask and embalms the young women in an attempt to preserve their beauty . The police are so ineffective that it's up to a local reporter to crack the case . And when his sweetheart goes missing , he steps up his efforts to discover the whereabouts of the missing women and the crazed killer . What Works : - The Chase Scene . The final chase scene through the cathedral does provide a few suspenseful moments . It also provides the only real memorable image from the movie . The scene where the hooded , masked killer hides himself among the decaying corpses of the monks is easily the highlight of The Monster of Venice . What Doesn't Work : - The Acting . In a word , it's abysmal . I don't think it's just a case of bad dubbing ? these people couldn't be convincing if their life depended on it . - The Travelogue . While Venice is undeniably a beautiful city , much of the movie appears to have been directed by the local tourism bureau . We are treated to scene after scene of the lovely buildings and waterways of Venice . While they are certainly some nice looking moments , they have nothing to do with the movie and bring an already dull script to a screeching halt . - The Killer's Monologue . The hooded killer loves to go on and on about preserving the beauty of his captives . It quickly becomes pointless and repetitive . And why does he feel the need to deliver these soliloquies ? There's no one around to hear his words . He has embalmed his only audience . - The Beautiful Women . This may sound shallow , but if these are the most beautiful women Venice has to offer , I would hate to see the rest of the populace . I would have trouble going so far as to say that any of the women approach being mildly attractive , let alone beautiful . I give up . I could probably continue to list more individual weaknesses , but what's the point . Everything you could name ? plot , characters , action , atmosphere , dialogue , etc . ? are bottom of the barrel . Other than the finale , this is one incredibly dull film . If you really feel the need to watch The Monster of Venice , do yourself a favor and fast-forward the movie to the final 10 minutes . You'll thank me for this piece of advice .
Typical 70s trash	- During an initiation ceremony , a girl is accidentally shot to death . At least it appeared to be an accident . Her father doesn't think so . Seven years later , he sends anonymous invitations to the other girls to gather for a reunion . His plan is to find the girl responsible for his daughters murder and kill her . If some of the other girls die along the way , it's of no concern to him . - Sisters of Death is a typical low-budget horror film from the 70s . I've read that it was actually made in 1972 ( ? ) , but not released until 1978 . I don't know why , just thought it was an interesting fact . Bad acting and a ridiculous plot are the " highlights " . - There are several examples I could mention as problems within this movie . But , I'll just note two small scenes that left me scratching my head . 1 . The girls know that there is a madman loose in the house . They've even met him . Yet , when it comes time to get some sleep , they all go to their separate bedrooms . If you knew someone in the house wanted to kill you , wouldn't you want to remain as a group ? 2 . Toward the end of the movie , a dog suddenly comes bolting out of the house and attacks one of the guys in the group . Where did this dog come from ? Did he suddenly materialize out of thin air ? And , after he pushes the guy into the electric fence , where does the dog go and why doesn't he attack anyone else ? These are just two of the mysteries of life . - Sisters of Death features Joe E . Tata who , I understand , appeared on Beverly Hills 90210 .
" Do you always fight over girls ? "	Before watching Road to Bali , Road to Singapore was the only other Hope / Crosby Road movie I'd seen . I enjoyed Road to Singapore and I've been meaning to give some more of these movies a go . In comparison , however , Road to Bali is terrible . It's just not funny . The jokes and sight gags never seem to hit their mark . For example , the bit about the loved starved gorilla was painful to watch . I was especially annoyed with all the self-referential , " look , we're in a movie " attempts at humor . When used judiciously , breaking the mythical fourth wall and speaking directly to the audience can be funny . Unfortunately , Bob Hope does it so often in Road to Bali that I wanted to scream . Also , I've real other comments where people favorably mention the various cameos . They felt forced and didn't work for me either . With all that being said , that doesn't mean I'm not going to give some of the other Road movies a shot . Next time , however , I think I'll stick with one of the earlier ones .
At least it has a decent Bruno Nicolai score	Because this is Franco , giving a plot rundown is something of a futile challenge , but I'll do my best to hit some of the highlights . Dr . Frankenstein arrives in some unnamed village to work in a supposedly abandoned castle . The castle actually isn't so abandoned as it's really the home of Dracula and his vampire servants . It's not long before Dr . Frankenstein revives his creation . Dr . Frankenstein puts his monster and Dracula to work kidnapping local women for his experiments . Why ? I have no idea , but he straps them to a table and does his thing . But Dracula being Dracula is sucking the life out of some of the locals . It's up to Dr . Seward and the local gypsies / werewolves to put a stop to Frankenstein and Dracula . During the first few moments of Dracula , Prisoner of Frankenstein , I was having trouble believing that this was a Franco film . The opening shots of the castle with Bruno Nicolai's score are well done and , for the lack of anything better , un-Franco-like . But this impression only lasted a few moments as Franco quickly shifts from the imposing and foreboding castle to a shot of a random dog on a random staircase . That's Franco for you . Compared with some of the other Franco films I've seen , Dracula , Prisoner of Frankenstein isn't too bad . Don't misunderstand , it's not very good , but if you've seen something like Franco's Oasis of the Zombies , this movie is a winner . You get a lot of what you expect from Franco ? suspect acting , poor make-up effects , and shaky camera work . One thing that really bothered me , though , is that Franco can't seem to decide what time period his film is set . While some characters drive cars , Dr . Seward gets around in a horse and buggy . And even though Dr . Frankenstein has a large collection of machines that require electricity , there's not a light bulb to be found anywhere . Things like this just bug me . . In the end , I can't in good conscious recommend Dracula , Prisoner of Frankenstein to anyone other than the most die-hard of Franco completists .
Not my cup of tea	This is going to start to sound confusing because I feel exactly the same about The Day the Earth Froze as I do the other two movies I've seen directed by Aleksandr Ptushko . My comments for The Magic Voyage of Sinbad and The Sword and the Dragon are applicable here ( and this is where it gets confusing ) ? " ' The Sword and the Dragon seemed to be filled with such broad overacting that it became absurd . I realize that the movie was made over 50 years ago in the Soviet Union . I understand that the movie is filled with messages and other pro-worker propaganda . And I appreciate the importance of the film as a relic of the communist system . But none of that means I have to actually like the movie . ' If you change the title of the movie , this quote accurately reflects my feelings on The Magic Voyage of Sinbad . " ? This time , substitute The Day the Earth Froze and you've got a quote that accurately reflects my feelings on the movie . Also , I'll add that , if anything , The Day the Earth Froze is actually duller than the other two movies . Even with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary , I had to wake myself at lest two times before I made it through . In the end , while these movies may appeal to some people , they're not my cup of tea . Just being honest here .
No suspense and no intrigue make for a dull movie	To begin with , what kind of name is Code 7 , Victim 5 ? From what I saw , this ridiculous title has nothing to do with anything that takes place in the movie . Lex Barker plays some sort of security consultant / detective who is hired by a wealthy man in South Africa . The wealthy man fears for his life and needs protection . A paying job is a paying job so Barker sets off for South Africa . There he finds one of the most uneventful adventures ever put on film . There's not much for Barker to do other than hook-up with every average looking female in the country and carry out his lame investigations . There's no suspense . There's no intrigue . There's not even a good cheesy spy movie type moment to save this mess . This is one of those rare films set in an exotic local with a mysterious killer on the loose that actually manages to be deathly dull . The only things that save Code 7 , Victim 5 from the bottom of the barrel are a few random set-pieces that I found mildly interesting . This is one to avoid .
" That square bugs me ! HE REALLY BUGS MEEEE ! "	If you decide to watch Wild Rebels , don't expect anything deep and meaningful . If you're looking for a film that explores the relationships and structure of a motorcycle gang , Wild Rebels is the wrong movie . If you're looking for an expose on the breakdown of the American educational system and the problem of juvenile delinquency , Wild Rebels is the wrong movie . If you're looking for a movie that examines how undermanned rural police departments are when facing a well-financed , well-organized gang , Wild Rebels is the wrong movie . But if you're looking for an absurd movie filled with scene after scene of unintentional humor , horrendous acting , a paper-thin plot , and community theater style production values , Wild Rebels is the right movie . Wild Rebels is the story of a down-on-his-luck stock-car driver named Rod Tillman ( Steve Alaimo ) . After a fiery crash ( which Rod walks away from completely unscathed despite having only a cotton pants and a London Fog style jacket for protection ) , Rod decides to give it up . With no plan for his future other than to wander aimless through the back-roads of the South , he stumbles on the Satan's Angels motorcycle gang ( a gang being three of the stupidest guys to ever zip up a leather jacket and a woman they seem to share ) . This group of hoodlums spends their time terrorizing a rural town in Florida by committing such atrocities as stealing a newspaper from a neighbor's mailbox . These bumbling idiots need someone to act as their driver during some larger crimes they have planned . Apparently , these three Einsteins can only drive vehicles with two tires , not four . So they recruit Rod to perform feats of daring that only an experienced stunt driver would be capable of like keeping the car in the middle of a gravel road during a low-speed chase . Eventually , they hold-up a bank , get into the aforementioned low-speed chase , and have the lamest gun battle with the police ever put on film . I could go on forever , but you get the idea . I hate the term " so bad it's good " , but that seems to aptly describe Wild Rebels .
Too predictable	The 70s were without a doubt the golden age of " made-for-TV " horror . This is one of those that was probably churned out as an ABC movie of the week . It's the old story of a house and / or ghost possessing one of the new owners . The movie has promise , but it's never realized . Everything is rushed too much . Tension and suspense need time to build and grow . And there's nothing new . We've seen it all before and one better . One final thought : I don't understand why Robert Wagner's character would fall for the long dead movie star when he's married to Kate Jackson for goodness sake ! ! !
Finleyville - The Home of Tree-Ripened Oranges . . . and Killer Tarantulas	Two guys , looking to make a quick buck , buy a plane load of Ecuadorian coffee to resale in the United States . On the way to San Francisco , their plane develops engine trouble and goes down in a field near Finleyville . But there's more than coffee on this plane . Unfortunately for the people of this small town , the coffee is infested with killer tarantulas . And now they're loose . Tarantulas : The Deadly Cargo is another in the long line of nature vs . human movies that were so popular during the 1970s . This one was made for TV so it comes with the limitations of that medium . Namely , other than a scene where a boy is killed , it's all pretty tame . The movie is also poorly paced and , at about 95 minutes , it's about 20 minutes too long . You could cut out a lot of the talk about shipping oranges and no one would miss it . Most of the acting isn't too bad . Claude Akins and Howard Hesseman ( using some sort of crazy accent ) are probably the best known members of the cast . But , I suppose my biggest problem with Tarantulas : The Deadly Cargo is that it's just not fun . I'm all about entertainment and I wasn't entertained . If you want to see a cheesy spider movie that's also entertaining , check out The Giant Spider Invasion . As bad as that movie is , at least it's fun ! Finally , there's a scene near the end of the movie where the characters are scooping up the spiders by the bucket-full . Well , that's just not possible . There weren't anywhere near that many spiders on the plane when it left Ecuador . In the beginning , the movie shows a few stowaway spiders getting on the plane ? not enough for an army . Besides , there wouldn't have been room for coffee on the plane for all the spiders .
" Always something to eat in the garbage ! "	What an annoying movie ! The Day After Tomorrow is filled with every disaster movie clich in the book . Why does there have to be a child with cancer who is too ill to move as the impending doom threatens ? Why is it necessary to have people fall in love during the middle of a crisis ? Why should we care about characters that are only on screen for a few minutes before they die ? Why does the homeless guy know more about what's going on than most anyone else ? Why did the parents in the movie have to be estranged , only to resolve their differences as the disaster strikes ? Why does the Dick Cheney look-alike Vice-President , the most prominent government official , have to be such a narrow minded character ? If you've seen on disaster movie , you've no doubt run into a few of these examples of the lack of originality found in The Day After Tomorrow . Most every event and character reaction to those events can be predicted with incredible accuracy . On top of the clichs , plot points are handled in such heavy-handed fashion . Director Roland Emmerich will suddenly show scenes and events that are totally unrelated to anything that is going on . You just know the minute you discover that the wolves have escaped from the zoo that they'll inevitably come back to create an even more dangerous situation for the people in the movie . Why else would the scene of a couple of zookeepers discovering the empty cages be included in the movie ? And you know the minute that one of the characters gets hurt trying to save someone that her injury will come back to haunt her . Why else would we get a quick glimpse of her bleeding underwater ? As a viewer , you're literally beat over the head with these plot points in an incredibly ham-fisted manner . As I said earlier , it's all so annoying . I suppose that if you're into CGI you might find a thing or two to enjoy . The special effects are , for the most part , well done . But the special effects completely dominate everything else . It's CGI overload . Why even bother with actors ? The actors don't act in The Day After Tomorrow . They spend their time reacting to special effects that were generated long after they were finished with the movie . Once again , it's annoying . Finally , did anyone ever think for a moment that the people trapped in the library were in any real danger ? If you thought for a second that Jake Gyllenhaal or Emmy Rossum's characters were in any real danger , you've apparently never seen a movie before . Why should I care about these two character ( or anyone else for that matter ) when you can spot who's going to live and who's going to die 10 minutes into the movie ? For the last time , it's annoying . I'll stop here as there are really so many other annoying facets of the movie I could cover that I could write pages . I haven't scratched the surface . I've already spent more time than I should have writing about The Day After Tomorrow .
What happened to Gator McKlusky ?	A two-time loser like Gator McKlusky ( Burt Reynolds ) will do anything to avoid a third strike and a long prison stint . So when a big city revenuer asks for Gator's help , what choice does he have ? Gator's mission is to get the goods on Bama McCall ( Jerry Reed ) , the nasty crime boss of a neighboring county . Gator gets something else he hadn't counted on , however , when he falls for television reporter Aggie Maybank ( Lauren Hutton ) . Can he get the girl and the goon ? As is the case with most sequels , Gator is a vastly inferior movie to its predecessor , White Lightning . Everything that made that movie so good and so memorable is missing from Gator . While there are a few good moments like the opening boat chase , the movie doesn't have the same gritty feel to it that characterized White Lightning . Gator trades much of the action of White Lightning for a tired , dull romance between Reynolds and Hutton . Not only isn't it believable ( especially if you know the Gator character from the first movie ) , but the outcome of the relationship is terribly predictable . " Sappy " and Gator McKlusky just shouldn't be used together . But the most offensive part of Gator is Burt Reynolds . In White Lightning , he played it straight . From my review of White Lightning , " One of the coolest things about White Lightning is that it presents Burt Reynolds as an actor at the top of his game . This was a Burt Reynolds who seemed to actually care about the final product and not just yucking it up with his buddies on screen . " In Gator , far too often Reynolds reverts to the clown he would become in movies like Smokey and the Bandit and Cannonball Run . That laugh of his just grates on my nerves . There are times in Gator when Reynolds and Reed are on screen together that I swear it's like a test run for Smokey and the Bandit . And it's not surprising to see Hal Needham's name in the credits as Second Unit Director . Overall , Gator is a huge disappointment . I'm being generous with my rating .
" Think you can take me ? Well , go ahead on . It's your move . "	After apprehending the man responsible for the murder of his boss , Deputy Sheriff Thomas Jefferson Geronimo , III , is assigned the task of taking the killer back to Italy . On the way , however , the plane is diverted to Malta . Not long after landing , the killer escapes . Now , and with little help from the Maltese police , Deputy Sheriff Geronimo is out to recapture a murderer . But will his " shoot first , take names later " brand of Texas justice work in a foreign country ? Let me get this out right up front , I've seen Final Justice both with and without the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary . I've seen the scenes that were cut that help make the movie a more coherent whole . And I've seen the cut-up TV version that was used for MST3K . Having said that , I've got to admit that I much prefer the MST3K version . Why ? Because Final Justice is one lousy movie . The MST3K commentary helps make it much more palatable . On its own , it's a real snoozer of an action movie with corny dialogue ( often delivered with such thick Italian accents that it's impossible to understand ) , bad acting , weak direction , gigantic plot holes , and most everything else you'll find in a bad movie . And if most of Final Justice wasn't " so bad , it's good " , it would be one terribly dull movie on top of everything else . So , yes , I enjoy the often very funny MST3K commentary over the bad movie on its own . My main sticking points with the MST3K commentary and with most of the reviews I've read on Final Justice , however , involve the criticisms of Joe Don Baker . The main weaknesses in Baker's performance actually have nothing to do with his size or the wardrobe choices of his character or any of the other jokes flung in his direction . Instead , I think much of it is has to do with the poor decision to cast him in the lead in the first place . Joe Don Baker has always struck me as a decent enough actor , but he's not the kind of guy I would call an " action hero " by any stretch of the imagination . He's more of a sidekick as he demonstrated with solid performances in a couple of James Bond movies . Or if you really want to blame someone for the problems with Final Justice , point your finger at director Greydon Clark . Clark's resume can't begin to compare with Baker's . So I say , " Lay off Joe Don Baker ! "
The worst of the Gidget films	Gidget Goes to Rome is easily the low point of the series . The comedy is lame and the story is neither original nor as sweet as Gidget . While Cindy Carol makes a better lead than Deborah Walley did in Gidget Goes Hawaiian , she's not going to make anyone forget about Sandra Dee . The series should have ended in Hawaii . Maybe it's just me , but I found a few things about Gidget Goes to Rome a little weird . First , take the relationship between Gidget and Moondoggie as presented in this movie . James Darren looks to be about twice the age of Carol . Seeing the older Darren snuggling up to a girl half his age is just a little too creepy for me to enjoy . Second , Moondoggie spends the entire movie ignoring Gidget and wooing the hot Italian tour guide . He even asks her to marry him . Yet when she refuses and sends him on his way , Gidget takes him back with open arms and without any questions . Again , it's just too creepy .
" No sugar you idiot ! "	I should have known better ? a sequel to a movie ( 1990 : The Bronx Warriors ) that itself is barely average . Generally , sequels have a hard time matching the standard set by the original . And even though the standard isn't very high in this case , Escape from the Bronx is a failure in comparison with its predecessor . First , the sequel lacks any imagination . We see the same gunfights and explosions we saw in the first film . Half of the death scenes could have been spliced in from 1990 : The Bronx Warrior and I doubt anyone would notice . Second , if possible the acting is even worse this time around . Mark Gregory ( and his painted on pants ) wasn't much of an actor in the first film . Here , he seems to have regressed . Also , I've read review after review that gush about Henry Silva's performance in Escape from the Bronx . My response ? what performance ? He spends 90 % of his already limited screen-time on the phone . What's so impressive about that ? Third , I never thought I would miss Fred Williamson , but he's part of what made 1990 : The Bronx Warriors as good as it was . An overacting Antonio Sabato is a poor replacement . And finally , the plot in Escape from the Bronx is completely absurd . The scenes of Manhattan indicate that very little has changed in the future . I would assume that would include people's perceptions on the value of human life . The notion that a company would have a business model that includes wiping-out the citizens of an entire city is ridiculous . That company wouldn't be around very long .
A weird mix of genres	A Knife for the Ladies ( or Jack the Ripper Goes West ) is a weird mix of genres . It's a Western with a slasher storyline running through it . A mad killer is slashing the necks of prostitutes in the town of Mescal . The sheriff , Jarrod ( Jack Elam ) seems incapable of finding the killer , so the town's leaders bring in a private detective named Burns ( Jeff Cooper ) . Can Burns find the killer before Mescal's brothel is left vacant ? Overall , A Knife for the Ladies is one lousy movie . Neither the horror nor the Western elements work . Until the final scene , it's a total failure . Much of the problem comes from the fact that nothing looks real . The town is obviously a set ? it doesn't feel " real " . The people are obviously actors playing parts . They're not " real " either . Jack Elam's old grizzled hard-drinking sheriff is so over-the-top that he's ridiculous . And Jeff Cooper's Burns is too 1970s to be authentic . A Knife for the Ladies ' lone highlight comes in its finale . It's actually a nice twist that I honestly didn't see coming . I could have never guessed the killer's identity . But as nice as the ending may have been , I still can't bring myself to rate A Knife for the Ladies any higher than a ? and that's being generous . Finally , one especially annoying aspect A Knife for the Ladies is the way it tries to play the old-school sheriff against the more modern detective . But it's all talk . There's no evidence presented of any real clash between the old vs . new law enforcement techniques . It's as if someone involved with the movie's production thought this conflict would make a good storyline so they threw it into the movie without really adding it ( if that makes any sense ) . Predictably , the old and new get into a completely unnecessary fistfight before they can work together . It's so forced it's painful .
" Oh , I feel like Nancy Drew in the mystery of the mid-life crisis . "	What a mess ! The remake of The Stepford Wives takes everything that made the original such a good movie and throws it all away . Instead , the movie goes for comedy and generally misses its mark at every opportunity . I'll admit that I did find myself smiling and almost laughing at a couple of scenes , but they are too few and too far between . And when the funniest bit in the movie is a 10 second Christmas sing-a-long , you can probably get an idea of how lame I found most of the comedy . But the biggest problem I see is a lack of any sort of realism . I understand that with comedy it's often necessary to stretch believability . But The Stepford Wives attempts to inject realism by also being a drama , a thriller , and a sci-fi movie . It's none of these . There's no drama when the movies main plot point is beaten to death within the first 15 minutes of the movie . The mystery of Stepford in this remake doesn't exist . As for being a thriller , The Stepford Wives is the kind of movie that all along you just know everything will be fine in the end . What kind of thriller doesn't at least make you think someone may be in danger ? Finally , most of the sci-fi elements are presented in cartoon format . How can you take that seriously ? In the end , other than a very few moments of comedy , this thing is a stinker .
A big time disappointment	Growing up a couple hours away from Adams , TN , I've been aware of and fascinated by the Bell Witch as long as I can remember . I've heard all the stories and read all the books . So when I first heard about the movie An American Haunting , I knew I had to see it . To say I was disappointed would be a gross understatement . I'll get the positives out of the way upfront . Donald Sutherland and Sissy Spacek are tremendously gifted actors . Their abilities shine regardless of the dreck they're given . Watching these two is about the only positive aspect of An American Haunting . It's a shame that these talented actors were presented with material that's so obviously beneath them . On to the bad . I'll start with the cheap scare tactics employed by Director and Co - Screenwriter Courtney Solomon . If jump scare after jump scare makes for a good horror movie in your mind , An American Haunting is the movie for you . There's no attempt made to frighten the audience in any way other than with these cheap tactics . There's no atmosphere , there's no psychological horror , and there's nothing to get under your skin and disturb you after the movie ends . It's about as unsophisticated a brand of horror as you'll find . Next , the movie begins by telling us that there is only one known case in history of a ghost killing a person . Unfortunately , however , the movie spends the next 91 minutes debunking this theory . I thought this was a movie about a haunting , not a dysfunctional family . The ending takes the whole legend of the Bell Witch and tosses it out the window . Why change the story ? Have modern audiences become so jaded that they demand an explanation that fits their modern sensibilities ? As I've already mentioned , the Bell Witch story is an interesting one and the mystery behind it seems to me to be far more entertaining than the explanation to Betsy's torment presented in An American Haunting . It's rubbish ! Finally , as far as creatively goes , An American Haunting is bland and pedestrian . The editing is sloppy , the direction is amateurish , and the cinematography is uninspired . I've seen made-for-television movies that were more exciting and better made from a creative standpoint . It's what I call " cut and paste " film-making .
Thank goodness for Mario Bava	20 years ago , the Countess Irene disappeared somewhere in her castle . She took with her the secret to her hidden treasure . Flash forward 20 years and a psychiatrist is bringing his daughter to the very same castle . He hopes that this new surrounding and his daughter's possible connection with the Countess Irene ( she a dead-ringer for the dead Countess ) will help cure his daughter of her debilitating nightmares . ( Personally , I'm not sure how putting the girl in touch with a dead Countess is going to help , but I'm not the doctor . ) Complicating matters is the one-eyed hunchback who still haunts the castle's dungeon and enjoys using its various torture devices on young women . After watching Tomb of Torture , all I can say is thank goodness for Mario Bava . I would hate to think what Italian horror might have become had Bava not been around . If Tomb of Torture is any indication , Italian horror would have been too dull to take much notice of . The movie gets off to a promising start with the torture and death of two women , but it all goes downhill rather quickly . It's over an hour later before anything else of interest happens . And by then I was way past caring . Most of the movie seems to consist of people wandering around doing a whole lot of nothing ? at least that's what I got out of it when I was able to hold my eyes open . The real torture was sitting through this thing .
I don't know when I've ever disagreed more with an IMDb rating	As I sit and think about Poison for the Fairies , I realize that I may not being fair with the film . My rating of may have more to do with my disappointment with the film than its actual quality or entertainment value . Based on the plot description , reviews on IMDb , and the 7 . 6 IMDb rating , I would sure that I had stumbled on a little known gem . Sadly , it just didn't do much for me . For whatever reason , Poison for the Fairies all but put me to sleep . Poison for the Fairies is the story of two young girls in 1965 Mexico City . One of the girls , Veronica , is a compulsive liar and tells her friend that she , Veronica , is a witch . The other girl , Flavia , is so gullible that she believes and is frightened by everything her friend tells her . That's really about it . In reality , nothing much happens and the film drags on and on as Veronica attempts to terrorize and dominate Flavia . One commenter on IMDb described it as " the scariest film in 80's Mexican cinema " . My comment ? if that's the case , there must not have been many horror films made in Mexico in the 80s . Another commenter wrote , " Watch it if you wanna get scared . " My comment ? are you sure we're talking about the same movie ? My opinion is diametrically opposed to these examples I've given . To me , it was dull , uninspired , and poorly acted . The scene framing is especially annoying as director Carlos Enrique Taboada doesn't ever show the faces of any of the other characters . Veronica and Flavia carry-on long , drawn-out conversations with members of their families and their teacher , but we never actually see these peoples ' faces . It's an annoying gimmick .
" There's a huge monster gorilla that's constantly growing to outlandish proportions loose in the streets ! "	The tag-line listed on IMDb for Konga reads ? " Not since " King Kong " . . . has the screen exploded with such mighty fury and spectacle ! " Here are a few ideas for tag-lines that would seem to me to be more appropriate ( and truthful ) . " SEE a chimpanzee magically transform into a man in a bad gorilla suit in mere seconds ! " " WATCH as Michael Gough chews more scenery than a Weed-Eater ! " " HEAR more pseudo-science babble than any one movie has a right to ! " " WATCH a brilliant professor throw his career away on one of the homeliest excuses for a college co-ed ever put on film ! " " SEE Barbie dolls thrown across the screen by the man in the bad gorilla suit ! " " WATCH the dullest movie ever made about a giant ape ! "
Sandy Frank does it again	Through a freaky set of circumstances , a woman and two children are accidentally locked in a cryogenic chamber just as an earthquake hits . Once revived , they find themselves in a strange world where apes are in charge . The three soon meet up with a man named Gono who appears to be the only other living human on the planet . If they are to ever find their way back home , the humans must stick together and stay a step ahead of the apes . As the story goes , Time of the Apes began its existence as a Japanese television show in 1974 . Producer Sandy Frank saw an opportunity and cobbled a few episodes together into this mess of a movie . And a mess it is ! The rating I've given Time of the Apes ( ) is really quite generous given how bad it really is . For example , Frank's plot makes little sense . Important plot points like the flying saucer are never explained . The quality of the ape costumes and make-up is all over the place ranging from acceptable to downright tacky . And even though I realize the dialogue is dubbed , it's horrible . The children come off as especially annoying . With that being said , I simply cannot bring myself to rate Time of the Apes any lower . While it may not be very good , it is interesting to see the Japanese take on Planet of the Apes . It's one of the most surreal examples of film-making I've seen recently . In addition , there were a few instances during the movie that I found fairly entertaining . Unfortunately , these moments were too few and far between . Time of the Apes is another movie that I watched courtesy of MST3K . The riffs from Joel and the Bots are pretty hit and miss ? some are quite funny while others just miss their mark . On my MST3K rating scale , I give this episode a ? A wishy-washy average rating .
Hopelessly Dull	After watching the first movie in BCI's new Aztec Mummy Collection , it's difficult to believe how excited I was about the set and how upset I was when the release date was pushed back . I've watched a lot of Mexican horror in recent months . Some great ? The Curse of the Crying Woman . Some entertaining despite obvious flaws ? Night of the Bloody Apes . And some Cheesy ? Pick any Santo movie . One thing that all these movies have in common is that none can be called " dull " . Well , that's not the case with The Aztec Mummy . It's been awhile since I last watched something so sleep inducing . I wasn't hoping for or expecting a great movie , but at least entertain me ! The Aztec Mummy takes every situation that could be interesting and sucks the life out of it through repeated scenes of people doing nothing and then extending those scenes for what fells like an eternity . I guess that's what happens when you make an 80 minute movie with only 30 minutes of material . Padding extraordinaire ! For example , for anyone who has seen the movie , what purpose does The Bat have other than to bring a masked wrestler type to the screen and to extend the runtime by 15 or so pointless minutes ? I can only hope that the other two movies in The Collection are more entertaining than this one .
The Phantom from 10 Feet	The Phantom from 10 , 000 Leagues , huh ? It's more like The Phantom from 10 Feet . The " Phantom " is as lame a creature as I've seen recently in a 50s sci-fi / horror movie . No movement to speak of , ridiculous looking , and only threatening if you get within 3 feet ? we're not talking The Creature from the Black Lagoon here . And The Phantom from 10 , 000 Leagues commits one of the most unforgivable sins a bad sci-fi / horror movie can ? it eliminates all tension and mystery by showing us a good , clear shot of the monster within the first 15 seconds of the movie . What a huge mistake ! And when your monster is this bad , you really need to keep it under-wraps as long as you can . This is " Bad Movie Making 101 " type stuff . I'm a fan of 50s sci-fi / horror ? even the bad ones . But when I run across one this dull , I've got to be honest and give it the rating it deserves . Actually , " dull " hardly seems strong enough . The paper thin plot is as dull as dishwater . We're promised death rays , but none are forthcoming . We're told of radiation burns , but the bodies are all conveniently face-down . And we're lead to believe that there's a large Oceanography Institute nearby , but all we see is a small office and an even smaller lab . What plot the movie does have takes a backseat to incessant conversations between characters I couldn't have cared less about . Can a movie be completely filled with padding in the form of pointless dialogue ? The Phantom from 10 , 000 Leagues comes close . And what a group of characters ! Again , about as dull as you'll run across ? a misguided but dull scientist , his clueless and dull daughter , a good but dull scientist / hero , a nosey but dull secretary , a gruff and dull investigator , and an idiotic , homicidal , but ultimately dull lab assistant . I think I'm being generous with my . Before I end this , there are a few things in The Phantom from 10 , 000 Leagues that I feel I must comment on : 1 . The young hero / scientist comes walking out of the ocean and just happens to trip over the only person within sight ? the film's female lead . What are the chances of that happening ? 2 . Are we really supposed to believe that the local fishermen , scientists , sightseers , the Oceanography Institute , and everyone else really share the same row boat ? Were we not supposed to notice the same boat going out to sea over and over ? That little boat sure gets some mileage . 3 . How convenient is it that all the dead bodies and the aforementioned row boat always seems to wash up on the same spot of beach ? Just a lucky coincidence I guess . 4 . Did anyone else find it odd that the movie's young female lead dresses in the living room ? For that matter , did anyone find it odd that the bathroom / shower was that close to the front door ? And what about that scene where the hero helps the young heroine with her zipper ? Can you say clich ? 5 . Why the need for a subplot involving foreign spies ? Granted , Helene Stanton is about the best thing The Phantom from 10 , 000 Leagues has going for it , but really , why is she here ?
The weakest of the five	- In the final Hercules made-for-television movie , Hercules is called upon to save a village from a Minotaur . But things are not as simple as they seem . The Minotaur has a secret that Hercules must overcome if he is to save himself and the village . - This is easily the weakest of the five movies that preceded the television series . Half of the running time is filled with flashbacks from the four previous movies . It gets old real quick . The actual battle with the Minotaur is a disappointment as well . The costume worn by the actor playing the Minotaur makes it all but impossible for him to move with any grace during the fight scenes . The relationship between Hercules and Iolaus , which would become one of the highlights of the television series , seems very unnatural . Almost all of the dialogue is designed to set up the next flashback . - Too bad , because this one has a lot of potential . The plot concerning the Minotaur's secret is one of the best in the five movies . Although the way it is handled makes it very obvious for anyone to guess .
" We're meant to die . Its what makes everything about us matter . "	Aeon Flux ( Charlize Theron ) is an assassin in the year 2415 . She works for a group of rebels intent on overthrowing the government . Her target is Trevor Goodchild ( Marton Csokas ) , the leader of what's left of Earth . But before Aeon can pull the trigger , something strange happens . A memory is sparked of a previous life when she knew Goodchild . She discovers that for the past 400 years everyone on Earth has been infertile . The human race has carried on through an intricate system of cloning . Trevor tells her that he is near to finding a solution to the problem . But there are some who would have things stay as they are . Trevor Goodchild's brother , Oren ( Jonny Lee Miller ) has plans to overthrow Trevor to maintain the status quo . Aeon changes her mission ? now she must protect Trevor , stop Oren , and end the cycle of cloning . I'm really starting to hate the modern brand of action movies . What happened to the good old days when it was all about shooting people and blowing things up ? Why do filmmakers feel the need to hide their action movies behind a faux sense of intelligence ? Despite all the weird flashback scenes , the annoyingly vague character motivations , and the intentionally muddled plot points , Aeon Flux is no smarter than any other action movie . In fact , all this pseudo-intellectual garbage does is confuse matters to the point the movie becomes incredibly dull . Scene after scene of people talking nonsense does not make for a good action film . And that's just what you get in Aeon Flux . Add to that some of the most uninteresting characters I've seen recently and you've got the makings of an infuriatingly boring movie . The worst offender in this regard has to be Jonny Lee Miller ( though if truth be told , no one comes out looking good ? and that includes Charlize Theron ) . Miller is so dry , so white bread , he's hardly menacing at all . Laughable would be a better description . And why do filmmakers today feel the need to make every action movie look like The Matrix ? I'm no physicist or human physiologist , but people and things don't move and / or behave in nature like they do in these movies . There's a scene where Aeon is about to fall on sharpened blades of grass ( oh , how clever ) . The way she holds herself just inches above the ground with nothing but the insides of her feet is impossible . I'm so tired of seeing this kind of thing . For what it's worth , I'll rate Aeon Flux a .
Believe it or not , but the ingredients are here for an interesting , surreal movie	The plot of The Astro-Zombies is so convoluted that I'm not sure I can sum it up in just a few short sentences - but I'll give it a try . It seems that a series of gristly murders is being blamed on a Dr . DeMarco ( John Carradine ) . Until recently , Dr . DeMarco worked for the government on a top secret project where he was attempting to develop a synthetic man . The synthetic or astro-man was thought to be ideal for long range space flight . The CIA theorizes that Dr . DeMarco has succeeded in creating an astro-man and that it may be responsible for the murders . In addition , a group of spies , headed by a woman named Satana ( Tura Satana ) , is also looking for Dr . DeMarco . They represent a foreign party interested in Dr . DeMarco's discoveries . You know , I could sit here and go through a litany of weaknesses found in The Astro-Zombies . But I'll be honest , that's too easy and , ultimately , too time consuming . It's like shooting fish in a barrel . So I'll stick to the biggest problem I had with The Astro-Zombies and that's how deadly dull much of the movie is . There are great big chunks of the movie where nothing happens . I don't mean it's just slow - I mean there's absolutely nothing going on . For example , there are a series of scenes with Dr . DeMarco preparing his lab for an experiment that seem to go on FOREVER ! Vials are filled , switches are thrown , microscopes are peered through , and on and on it goes . No dialogue ? just mundane , routine scenes of people trying to look busy . I swear that at one point it looked like Carradine was working on a thermostat . And who wouldn't want to see John Carradine do a little home repair project ? But as bad as The Astro-Zombies is , the movie's not a total loss . There's enough bizarreness here that someone with a little talent might have gotten something interesting out of it . I'll go so far to argue that a good editor might be able to shave a half-hour off the thing and come up with an interesting , surreal movie . The ingredients are here ? CIA operatives , John Carradine , mutant creatures , a secret lab , Tura Satana ( who's pretty surreal in her own right ) , a hunchbacked lab assistant , violent attack scenes , an unknown woman in a bikini strapped to a table , and enough scientific hokum for two movies . But until someone takes the time to put this movie together , the best I can give The Astro-Zombies is a .
It's 903 corpses short	- A film crew is shooting a horror movie in an old , supposedly cursed house where over the years , seven people have mysteriously died . One of the crew finds an old book of spells and it looks like it would be perfect to use in some of the ritual scenes in their movie . It is reasoned that the spells in the book are better written than the script they are using . But as the book is read , the graveyard outside suddenly comes to life . Now the cast and crew are faced with real danger . - IMDb lists a running time of 90 minutes . For the first 60 of those minutes , nothing happens . Far too much time is spent on the movie within a movie . Are we supposed to be frightened by the horror movie that they are shooting ? We already know that their movie isn't " real " . These scares just don't work . - There are very few things to enjoy about The House of Seven Corpses . The acting is atrocious . Most of these " actors " would have trouble making a elementary school play . The score is terrible . It is very reminiscent of a 70s television series and provides no atmosphere . Speaking of atmosphere , other than a few moments at the end of the movie , there is none to speak of . Character logic is all but non-existent . Even in a movie , you expect characters to behave in a certain way . Here , I don't think I remember one scene where a character didn't choose the most illogical avenue available to them . And finally , there's those first 60 minutes of the movie that I've already mentioned . Can you say BORING ? - I haven't rated The House of Seven Corpses any lower because of instances where the movie ( probably by accident ) actually works . My two favorite are the beginning and ending . The opening title sequence presents the deaths of the seven previous owners and may be the highlight of the movie . And , the ending scenes on the massive staircase as the zombie menaces the film crew are somewhat effective ( what a ringing endorsement ) . Overall though , these moments aren't enough to make this a good movie .
Bart Fargo !	Oh , those Italians and their James Bond rip-offs ! While they sometimes have a bit of charm or interest to them , usually they're dull and lifeless . That's certainly the case with Danger ! Death Ray . The muddled plot centers on a group of baddies kidnapping a scientist who has developed a " death ray " . It's up to secret agent Bart Fargo to rescue the scientist , bust-up the group of bad guys , and , presumably , save mankind . The problem with most of the James Bond rip-offs is a lack of money . The locations and sets in Danger ! Death Ray cannot compete with the extravagant places visited by James Bond . You need money to film in those locations . The special effects are laughable . The submarine and helicopter scene was obviously filmed in a bathtub . Again , you need money for special effects . Add to that an incoherent plot , bad acting , poor dubbing , unimaginative cinematography , and uninteresting characters and you've got one bad movie . Finally , what kind of name is Bart Fargo ! You can't take someone with a name like Bart Fargo very seriously . Say the name five times and see what happens . I should point out that it's not all terrible . Danger ! Death Ray does feature quite a snappy musical score . Even though it was endlessly repeated throughout the movie , the title theme is pure 60s fun .
In a word - disappointing	David Carradine is Harley Thomas , a moonshine runner . Trouble is , he's one of the small time operators . His fianc , Nancy Sue Hunnicutt ( Kate Jackson ) , just happens to be the daughter of the biggest operator in the area . And R . J . Hunnicutt ( Roger C . Carmel ) doesn't take kindly to Harley's business or his relationship with his daughter . R . J . ' s also got a batch of poison moonshine set to go out . Harley and Nancy Sue make their mission to stop the truck carrying the tainted whiskey before it reaches its destination . The best word I can think of to describe Thunder and Lightning is disappointing . I had high hopes for this one , but for the most part , it's just plain dull . I usually enjoy most everything David Carradine has done and I've grown to be a fan of these 70s chase films , but I found very little to enjoy here . The comedy elements don't work , the fight scenes seem lazily done , and the acting is terrible . The whole thing seems to have been thrown together in a hurry as a cash-in on the success of Smokey and the Bandit . It's too bad because I like the idea of pairing Carradine with Kate Jackson . The best parts of the film are easily some of the car and boat chase stunts . The swamp boat scenes were great . Problem is these moments are too few and far between . Instead , we get too much of the bad attempts at humor and drama .
Very Disappointing	- The Monster Club is a three story anthology held together by Vincent Price and John Carradine . The first story is about a wealthy , pale faced creature with few friends who falls in love with the hired help . She turns him down and must face the consequences . The second story is about a modern day vampire hiding out from modern day vampire hunters . The third story concerns a town of the beaten path inhabited by nothing but ghouls . - Story 1 - - It's not bad , just very predictable . With better writing , this story could make an entertaining feature length film on its own . I found the pale-faced creature to be unique and interesting . - Story 2 - - What utter garbage . The story goes for laughs and fails at every opportunity . All of the humor is incredible obvious and , as such , I found it insulting . It's a shame that a talent like Donald Pleasence and Britt Ekland were wasted on drivel like this . - Story 3 - - Easily the best and most chilling of the stories . While the ghouls are not particularly scary looking , the continued and relentless attacks are effective scenes . The ending is a good piece of irony . - The In-Between Bits - - How embarrassing for Price and Carradine to be stuck in a mess like this . You can buy better looking monster masks at Wal Mart . The music that played between each story was especially rancid . - Take the four rating , add them together , and divide by 4 . The result - .
" I suppose you think that women should only cook and sew and bear children . "	I completely understand the historical significance of Rocketship X-M , but that doesn't make it a good movie . To begin with , the plot ( or what there is of it ) is dull and lifeless . Five astronauts blast off for the moon ? they get knocked off course and end up on Mars ( huh ? ) ? cavemen-looking Martians throw rocks at them ? they return to Earth and meet a fiery death ? The End . Believe it or not , but this pithy plot description makes it sound much more interesting than it really is . To make matters worse , John Emery's character , Dr . Karl Eckstrom , feels it necessary to give long drawn out speeches on everything from the nature of man to the dangers of nuclear weapons . It's just a thrill-a-minute ( sarcasm intended ) . Looking back at Rocketship X-M almost 60 years later , I would call the portrayal of women funny if it weren't all so sad and misguided . There are a number of examples I could cite , but there's one exchange of dialogue just after take-off between the male chauvinist pilot Floyd ( played by the irritating , plastic-haired Lloyd Bridges ) and Dr . Lisa Van Horn ( the only female crewmember and the constant object of Floyd's often creepy attention ) that illustrates the film's attitudes toward women quite nicely : ? Floyd : " I've been wondering , how did a girl like you get mixed up in a thing like this in the first place . " ? Dr . Van Horn : " I suppose you think that women should only cook and sew and bear children . " ? Floyd : " Isn't that enough ? " I think Floyd should have stayed behind with the cavemen !
" Flame on ! "	The Fantastic Four are back and this time they have to save the world from a planet eating entity . Along they way , they'll meet a new potential foe / friend in the Silver Surfer and reacquaint themselves with their old nemesis , Dr . Doom . While those two sentences are the essence of the plot , make no mistake , 4 : The Rise of the Silver Surfer is a special effects movie . Plot takes a backseat to the loud , over-blown eye-candy . It may be pretty to look at , but there's nothing compelling or interesting under the surface . The people in the movie don't necessarily act as much as react to CGI effects . The director and writer attempt to cover-up the lack of a story with lame sight gags and weak one-liners . Some will argue that this is supposed to be a fun popcorn movie , but does it have to be as empty as Jessica Alba's head ?
" You find me degenerate - or worse even , French . "	Until last night , I hadn't seen Castle Keep in a couple of decades . To be honest , I had completely forgotten how much I detest this movie . To sum-up my feelings as succinctly as possible , Castle Keep is too arty , too surreal , and too weird for its own good . Not once does director Sydney Pollock tell the story in Castle Keep in a straightforward manner . Instead it's all so dreamlike that it's difficult to tell if any of it is real or not . Paintings come to life . Cars float on water . Nazis play flutes while on patrol . What's a dream ? What's reality ? I'm not sure I can distinguish the two in Castle Keep . No doubt someone will tell me I'm missing a deeper meaning to the film , but I'm not sure I want to know what it is . To top it off , the movie is so dull that I could have cared less what was happening to the characters . The first two-thirds of the movie are torture to sit through . By the time the big battle scene took place , I had lost all interest . So much for a big finale .
" That's a very nice dress you nearly got on . "	What a shocker ! Who knew that Jayne Mansfield could actually pull off a role that required some real acting ? No , she's no threat to knock Ingrid Bergman off of anyone's top actress list , but she's surprisingly good in Too Hot to Handle . It's quite a change of pace from her roles that I'm more familiar with . Mansfield is definitely much more than the blond sex-kitten I had thought . The other " names " in the cast are Leo Genn and Christopher Lee . Genn is his usual solid self . In fact , I can't remember seeing Genn in anything where he wasn't solid . It's a shame this man isn't better known by the general public . Being something of a Christopher Lee completist , Lee is the reason I wanted to see Too Hot to Handle in the first place . But other than introducing a few dancers , he really doesn't do much . As for the movie , it's a total melodrama with one clich after the next . It may be listed as " Crime " on IMDb , but the crime elements have very little to do with the actual plot . And , it's dull . Who would have thought that a movie with Jayne Mansfield working in a strip club could be so boring . I didn't care if Genn lost his club . I didn't care if Mansfield got her man . I didn't care if there was an underage girl working in the club . I didn't care about any of it . All I wanted was for the thing to end . There's a sub-plot in the movie involving a dancer who is in the country illegally and the writer who falls for and wants to help her . Their story is the most interesting thing in the movie and keeps me from rating the movie any lower . Unfortunately , this sub-plot goes nowhere .
I hate to rate anything with Edwige this low	You can pretty much guess my feelings of this movie when I say that the two best things about it are the movie's title and the presence of Edwige Fenech . Other than that , I can't find much to recommend . The killer isn't very interesting . The mystery elements of the film aren't engrossing . And the kill scenes are poorly done . There's just no tension that is necessary for a good Giallo . And the final reveal of the killer is anything but suspenseful . In the end there are only three people left alive . If two of the characters are being chased by the killer , it doesn't take Sherlock Holmes to figure out who is under the motorcycle helmet ? Sure , there's plenty of sleaze , but it's not done in what I found to be a fun or entertaining way . Unfortunately , I found Strip Nude for Your Killer to be a boring watch . I found myself looking at the clock about half way through just wishing it would end . As a group , Gialli are often criticized for their misogyny . Consider Strip Nude for Your Killer as the poster child of misogyny in this type of film . Not one woman is presented or treated as anything but a mindless object . Take our heroine Edwige ? her boyfriend acts as if he is going to strangle her in one scene . Does she send him packing or show any sign that she objected to being treated in that manner ? No !
" Get off my back , Iris . I'm thinking ' . "	After knocking over a market , Eddy Crane ( Tony Travis ) and the rest of his gang stop at a diner for a bite to eat . Quite unexpectedly ( at least I didn't see it coming ) , Eddy begins singing to a little jazzy number playing on the jukebox . He's overheard by a talent agent who thinks he can make Eddy a star . Before you can say " Daddy-O " , Eddy's on TV and has a recording contract lined up . But Eddy can't escape his past . While celebrating his good fortune , one of his friends , Mooney ( Peter Breck ) , kills a bartender . Eddy's agent asks the gang to leave Eddy alone and gets stabbed for his efforts . The gang drags Eddy back down at every opportunity . Eddy's must ultimately fight for his freedom . I wonder if Paul Frees and the rest of those behind this bad idea of a movie had any concept of just what a " beatnik " was . It doesn't appear so . Calling this gang of self-centered , unintelligent , small-time hoods with a Pat Boone style crooner as its leader " beatniks " would have Maynard G . Krebs spinning in his grave . These aren't " beatniks " in the traditional sense of the word . These are not the philosophical counter-cultural bongo beaters Kerouac wrote about . If everyone involved wasn't in their 30s , I'd call them juvenile delinquents . Beatniks ? I don't think so . But beyond the misuse of " beatniks " , the movie has very little to offer . Some moments in The Beatniks might be appealing in that bizarrely entertaining sort of way , but not in any traditional sense . The plot it bad , the acting is horrible , and the cinematography is as lazy as I've seen recently . In short , The Beatniks isn't a very good movie .
Interesting as a relic , but that's as far as I can go	Reading through the various user comments on IMDb for The Sword and the Dragon ( the title I saw the film under ) I notice words like surreal , bizarre , goofy , ridiculous , wacky , and weird . I can understand how someone might use each of these adjectives to describe the movie . As I watched , I might have been tempted to use any one of these words at various times . But unfortunately , one word you won't see me use is " entertaining " . The style of the movie did not appeal to me in the least . The Sword and the Dragon seemed to be filled with such broad overacting that it became absurd . I realize that the movie was made over 50 years ago in the Soviet Union . I understand that the movie is filled with messages and other pro-worker propaganda . And I appreciate the importance of the film as a relic of the communist system . But none of that means I have to actually like the movie . So overall , while I appreciate the opportunity to see something as different and unique as The Sword and the Dragon , I'm not in any hurry to rush out and create a fan club . Interesting ? ? Yes . Entertaining ? - No . I saw The Sword and the Dragon courtesy of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . I've heard such good things about all of the Russo-Finnish films that I was excited to give this one a chance . Sadly , it didn't live-up to the hype . The comedy too often is directed at the obvious - making fun of a different culture . In the end , I'll rate this episode a on my MST3K rating scale .
" Martha Stewart can kiss my shiny plastic butt ! "	Tiffany ( Jennifer Tilly ) was at one time in love with a serial killer whose soul now possess the killer doll known as Chucky . She pays a young man to retrieve the doll from a police evidence locker and brings Chucky back to life . She soon ticks off Chucky and he kills her . By a strange coincidence her soul becomes trapped inside another doll . The pair set off cross-country to retrieve an amulet buried with the serial killer that will allow them to regain their human form . Maybe I'm not part of the target audience , but there's not much in this movie that works for me . Some of the humor is mildly amusing , but for the most part , it's ridiculous . And the whole notion that these two small dolls are able to take down and kill anything larger than a puppy or engage in sex and procreate is really stretching it . In short , I've never understood the appeal of Chucky and Bride of Chucky does nothing to change that . The " highlight " ( for the lack of a better word ) of the movie has to be Jennifer Tilly . I've always enjoyed seeing her in other movies . She has a style and look about her that I find unique . And Bride of Chucky gives her a chance to show off her ? well ? acting abilities .
Where is the real Scooby Doo ?	I realize that Scooby Doo 2 is basically a kids ' movie . I realize that I am long past the target audience's age . And , I realize that it's a sequel to a movie I didn't care for . However , I grew up a fan of the original Scooby Doo cartoon . I was 6 years-old when the cartoon originally aired and I have fond memories of those Saturday mornings . The people responsible for making these movies have taken most of what made that show good and thrown it out the window . The ghosts and monsters weren't real . There was always a rational explanation behind everything that went on . Part of the fun was trying to wrap my 6 year-old brain around how the bad guys were doing their evil deeds . But a movie based in anything approaching reality wouldn't work as a big , over-bloated , CGI mess like Scooby Doo 2 . It's unreal , it's loud , and it leaves nothing to the imagination . The film consistently makes fun of itself in that I'm-smarter-than-you , self-referential way that I find so annoying . It's a shame to me that young kids today will not grow-up understanding the charm of the original Scooby Doo .
And I was sure this movie would work for me	On the way home from a day at the beach , four young people seek shelter from a torrential downpour at the home of Lord and Lady Alexander after their car runs out of gas . They don't know it , but the house they're staying in is to be the site of a Satanic ritual . Jane ( Camille Keaton ) , the only female of the group , is to be sacrificed . As her male companions rush to her aid , one of them accidentally kills Lady Alexander . Things really get out of hand and everyone else attending the black mass is also killed . The four try to make an escape , but soon discover there's no escape from what they've witnessed . One by one , they meet their fates . Gong into Tragic Ceremony , I was positive I would enjoy it . Slow-burn Gothic horror is right up my alley . I'm also quite fond of some of Riccardo Freda's other movies like The Horrible Dr . Hichcock , The Ghost , and I Vampiri . Tragic Ceremony seemed to be a sure thing . Unfortunately , things don't always work out the way they should . The biggest tragedy with respect to Tragic Ceremony is the time I spent watching this mess of a movie . With a few minor exceptions , nothing about the film appealed to me or worked for me . The characters are unlikeable , the plot is incoherent and schizophrenic , and the pacing is terrible . There's a subplot about some cursed pearls that goes nowhere and only serves to confuse things even further . In addition , nothing interesting happens for most of the movie . By the time the four leads realize they're in danger , I was well past the point of caring . And I don't understand the reviews I've read that praise the acting of Camille Keaton . I suppose it's a terrific performance if you consider an emotionless daze to be acting . The three male leads are the very definition of nondescript . They do nothing to stand out . The supporting cast includes some genre favorites like Luigi Pistilli , Luciana Paluzzi , and Paul Muller , but none is given anything to do . In fact Muller's main contribution is a two minute long monologue at the end of the movie that attempts to explain what happened in the previous 80 or so minutes . It's a weak attempt to provide a wrap-up to a very weak movie .
The Shiny Spinning Coffee Pot in the Desert	Not a very hard plot to describe : an alien force lands in the desert and soon begins to use animals ( and a few weaker-minded humans ) to do its bidding . The terror begins when the animals go berserk and start attacking the humans . In the end , the creature is discovered and defeated by something it cannot understand ? love ( no , I'm not making that up ) . The Beast with a Million Eyes was the third movie in a three picture deal Roger Corman had worked out with the cleverly named American Releasing Corporation ( later AIP ) . Because this was the last movie in the deal , there wasn't much money left for a budget as is painfully obvious . Corman's plan to use a mostly invisible , unseen creature that attacked people through thought waves was genius in that it could be done cheaply with little to no special effects . Unfortunately , it makes for one very dull experience . Instead of a cool creature , the movie relies on acting . And as with the special effects , there's little to no real acting taking place in the movie . Most everyone involved is horrible . The only thing of interest to be found in the cast is a very young Dick Sargent of Bewitched fame in his first credited role . The script doesn't help . Actors are forced to say the silliest , most unnatural lines imaginable . The " Million Eyes " of the title are more metaphorical than anything else . The Beast uses the million of eyes of the animals and humans it dominated to see with . Get it ? Clever , huh ? In fact , the whole title ? The Beast with a Million Eyes ? is , to say the least , misleading . But I suppose it drew a bigger crowd than a more accurate title like The Shiny Spinning Coffee Pot in the Desert would have . Finally , there's that whole beyond hokey ending where ( once again ) love conquers all . Oh please ! Can we be just a bit more clich ? Obviously , The Beast with a Million Eyes is far from the best sci-fi movie or the best Roger Corman related movie out there . But it does get a bonus point or two for effort and trying something different . Who knows , with a real budget , real special effects , a real Beast , a real script , and real actors , things might have turned out differently .
" You're too old-fashioned to be a genius . "	Paul Krenner , a would-be criminal kingpin , hooks up with a safe-cracker named Joey Faust . Through extortion and force , Krenner has coerced a scientist to develop a process of making animals and people transparent . Krenner's idea is to use this discovery to create and army of invisible men to do his bidding . His more immediate plan , though , is to make Faust invisible so he might steal the radium needed to continue the experiments . But Faust has different ideas about how to use his invisibility ? most of which involve bank robbery . First I'll mention the relatively small list of positives I found in The Amazing Transparent Man . I think the basic idea behind the movie is interesting . The notion of an invisible master criminal who could literally rob a bank in broad daylight presents some interesting possibilities . The other positive element of the movie is the film's score . The central musical theme that gets repeated throughout The Amazing Transparent Man is successful in creating the desired ominous atmosphere . Unfortunately , however , the list of negatives is huge . While the movie may present some interesting plot ideas , the execution leaves a lot to be desired . In general , director Edgar G . Ulmer was as good as any director at working with a low budget to make interesting and entertaining movies . That's not the case here . The Amazing Transparent Man never overcomes the limitations of its low budget . Bad acting , a poor script , ridiculous dialogue , ambiguous character motivation , and uninteresting sets are just he beginning of the many problems readily apparent in the movie . Honestly , I could go on and on , but what's the point ? This is low-rent film-making at its worst .
" There's road kill all over Texas . "	There are so many problems with Leatherface : Texas Chainsaw Massacre III that I'm not sure where to begin , so I suppose I'll try to limit my comments to the characters . I couldn't have cared less whether the supposed heroes of the movie lived or died . A more unlikable pair do you rarely run across . The guy was a sniveling idiot and the girl had even less personality . " Kill ' em and kill ' em quick " was the thought running through my head . Second , we've got the characters that make up Leatherface's " new " family . Who are these people and where did they come from ? I would have thought that the Texas Rangers would have completely investigated the Sawyer family and discovered any relative who may have taken in Leatherface after the events of the first two movies . And , are we supposed to believe that the entire extended family is also made up of inbred cannibal serial killers ? With a family as large as the one presented in these movies you would think that ( even if just by chance ) at least one member of the family would have some reservations about hacking up innocent strangers . I almost get the feeling that the makers of Leatherface : Texas Chainsaw Massacre III would have us believe that everyone in Texas is a nutty , chainsaw-welding maniac . Finally , there's Leatherface . I'll just say that he's a sad imitation of the original . And I know this has nothing to do with the character of Leatherface , but what's that engraved chainsaw all about ? It's a completely ridiculous concept .
A Bore	- It's probably unfair , but I can't help but compare Gambling City with Almost Human . Both movies were released at the same time by NoShame Films and I watched them almost back-to-back . Where Almost Human was a thrill a minute sadistic ride into the depravity of man , Gambling City is a dull , lifeless bore . - My problems with Gambling City started almost from the first frame . The music is terrible . The score just never seemed appropriate or fitting to the action on screen . And the music that was played over the love scenes was so syrupy sweet that it's nauseating . It's just plain bad . Another weakness comes shortly after the lead character Luca ( Luc Merenda ) was introduced . He never comes across as a sympathetic figure . It's really difficult to care for him . One minute he's playing the clown , the next he's a fighter , and the next he's getting the stuffing beaten out of him . And none of it had an effect on me because it's difficult to feel for someone you care so little about . - But the real problem lies in the plot . It's all too predictable . It's way to easy to see the outcome of this movie from a mile away . I defy anyone to watch Gambling City and be genuinely surprised about what happens to Luca and his woman . The complete lack of surprises in the story made the entire film an absolute bore . - With all the negatives , I will admit that the movie looks good . The cinematography , set design , and locations are beautiful . It's too bad that Gambling City isn't as good as it looks ? and isn't near as good as Almost Human .
Dreary	There's really not much need to begin this little review with a plot synopsis . I mean it's Shakespeare's Hamlet for goodness sake ? probably one of the best known plays ever written . I'm not embarrassed to admit that I came to this version of Hamlet the way most people on IMDb have ? through Mystery Science Theater 3000 . While the show may not be the best venue to use to judge a movie , in this case I cannot imagine attempting to watch it without the comedic quips . In a word , this German , made-for-TV version of Hamlet is dreary . 152 minutes ? No way ! It's too dark and depressing to be anything I want to spend almost three hours on . I've said it any number of times , but entertainment is the thing for me . And this wrist-slitter is far from entertaining . I will , however , give it a couple of points for what I felt was some reasonably good acting . A sounds about right to me . As much as I enjoy MST3K , their comments don't help to make Hamlet any more palatable . There are a few good riffs here and there , but overall , Hamlet is just the wrong movie for MST3K . Shakespeare is far too talky to allow the comedy to have any sort of rhythm or flow . As much as it pains me , I've got to give Hamlet a on my MST3K rating scale .
Halloween and Michael should have died with H2O	Why was this movie even made ? Hasn't this story been beaten to death ? Did we really need another ridiculous installment in the series ? Of course the answer to all of these questions is money . Apparently and inexplicably there is still cash to be mined from the Halloween franchise . Too bad . Halloween H2O provided what I thought was the perfect end to Michael Myers . There are so many negative things I could say about Halloween : Resurrection that I really don't know where to begin . I suppose I'll start with what I found to be the biggest problem ? Busta Rhymes . Has there ever been a more annoying person to appear in a horror film ? What a horrible performance ! And then there's the whole idea that Michael has been living in a tunnel system under his old house that the police never thought to search . Yeah , right . The whole notion is an insult to the intelligence of any thinking person . Don't you think that an event like investigating the Myers ' house on Halloween night would draw a crowd of onlookers ( or at least nut-jobs ) from near and far ? There's no way Michael should have been able to enter and exit the house unseen . The crowds of the curious , security , or police would have surely noticed something going on . Again , this whole notion is an insult to the intelligence of any thinking person . Honestly , I could write paragraph after paragraph of what I found wrong with Halloween : Resurrection , but what's the point . It's too easy . I will give the movie credit for one thing ? the actors wearing cameras was a nice touch . It's too bad they didn't have anything worth filming .
Why do I subject myself to this kind of stuff ?	Lynda Carter is Kate Carlin , a social worker with a 14 year old pregnant girl as one of her clients . The girl has agreed to put her baby up for adoption through a private attorney rather than the State . After the baby is born , she changes her mind about the whole adoption process and wants to keep her baby . But the greedy attorney will hear none of this and goes ahead and gives the baby to parents that he secretly knows to be unfit . In steps Kate Carlin to save the day and put a stop to the baby-selling ring . Why do I subject myself to this kind of stuff ? I don't know if The Lifetime Network existed in 1981 , but Born to Be Sold is pure Lifetime melodrama . I'll admit that the situation the young girl found herself in was heartbreaking , but the way the film presents the story lacks a lot of realism . Take the scene where Kate Carlin spots an intruder in her home . The reaction on the part of the character and the lack of police involvement did not ring true . Or , take the greedy , slimy attorney played by Harold Gould . He's just a little too greedy and a little too slimy to be believable . To be a man in his position , he takes far too many chances and brags a little too much to be successful for very long . Again , it's not realistic .
" A wounded animal that large isn't good ! "	I've been trying to write a plot summary for several minutes now and can't seem to do it . But with a movie as bad as Night of the Blood Beast the plot hardly matters . An astronaut crash lands and is believed dead . His body later reanimates , but is found to be carrying the embryos of some strange alien life-form . But how did they get there ? And where's the alien that implanted the strange creatures in Maj . John Corcoran's body ? IMDb lists the runtime for Night of the Blood Beast at 62 minutes . Is that right ? 62 minutes ? It had to be longer than that . It felt interminable to me . Even with the MST3K commentary ( which was very funny by the way ) , the actual movie felt much , much longer . And it's pretty much a snoozer from beginning to end . I like a lot of these alien invasion type movies of the 50s , but not this one . It failed to grab my interest on any level . The baby aliens were too silly looking to be taken seriously , the titular blood beast was pathetic , and none of the characters did anything for me . Add to that the usual low-budget Roger Corman trappings and you've got a real loser of a movie .
At least it has Bela in it	Bela Lugosi plays a doctor who will do anything to keep his wife looking young and beautiful . To this end , he drugs brides during their wedding ceremonies to make it look as if they are dead so he can steal their bodies . I'm not exactly sure what he does with the bodies . I don't remember it ever being fully explained . All I know is that he extracts something from them and injects it in his wife . ( I'll just guess that it's spinal fluid . Spinal fluid was all the rage of mad scientists in the 40s . ) You can pretty much guess the rest from here . There are a couple ( well , really more than a couple , but I'll only write about two ) of problems that I have with this movie . One is the way Bela is used . Sure , he does a decent enough job in his own overacting sort of way ( BTW , the rest of the cast is simply abysmal ) . But , to have him hiding in the back of a hearse or having him creep into the female reporter's bedroom to do nothing is just silly . Also , why have him beat and / or kill every henchman he has ? Is it to make him look evil ? Well , someone who is kidnapping comatose brides doesn't really need to be made to look more evil . The second problem I have is the idea of drugging brides . Why brides ? Wouldn't any female under the age of 20 do ? Watching Bela go through these gyrations to get his victims , I was reminded of the idiotic Fisherman in I Still Know What You Did Last Summer . In each case , there would appear to be an easier way of reaching your objective than employing a seemingly impossible plan that depends way to much on circumstances out of your control . ( BTW , an alternate title for this movie is The Case of the Missing Brides . I guess that partially explains the need for ' brides ' . )
" Something so horrible , it's inconceivable . "	Dr . Marnie Bannister ( Magda Konopka ) is a horribly disfigured woman . When one of her colleagues discovers a rejuvenation formula , Marnie sees it as her opportunity to become beautiful . When she's denied the drug because of possible side effects , she kills her colleague to get what she wants . The drug works and she becomes beautiful . But the formula brings out the worst in her and it's not long before she's left a string of bodies behind her . Have you ever heard the expression " as exciting as watching paint dry " ? That pretty much sums up Satanik . During the film , one of the characters utters the line , " Something so horrible , it's inconceivable . " I wasn't sure if he was talking about something in movie or the movie itself . I'm really disappointed because I had high hopes for this one . Satanik had possibilities , but they're never realized . At every opportunity , the plot has Marnie do the dullest things imaginable . The writing is horrible . And part of the problem is Magda Konopka . She's not that appealing and cannot carry the film on her own . Another big problem with Satanik is the direction and editing . It's a mess . We see things and places that have no bearing on anything in the movie . The camera lingers on shots too long after the scene is over . I can't think of a single shot that would call anything but unoriginal . This group of filmmakers exhibits little in the way of imagination or talent . I may not be familiar with the Italian comic on which Satanik is supposedly based , but I'm sure it's got to be better than this .
Peter Ustinov should have stuck with playing Belgian detectives .	I'm almost embarrassed to admit to having seen Charlie Chan and the Curse of the Dragon Queen in the theater during its original run . I hadn't seen it since and when I found the DVD on sale for less than the price of a rental , I decided to give it another chance . Big mistake ! It's as bad as I remembered . I suppose that the movie was an attempt to cash-in the success of Murder by Death , another comedy featuring fictional but famous detectives as its central characters . By that's where the comparisons end . Murder by Death was brilliant . That movie was intelligent , witty , and filled with biting dialogue as its comedic base . In contract , Charlie Chan and the Curse of the Dragon Queen relies on juvenile slapstick to get a laugh . While there are a few moments that brought a smile to my face , as a whole , it's just not funny . And , there's nothing intelligent about any of it . What a wasted opportunity !
Skip It	Dismissing The Antichrist as a rip-off of The Exorcist is too easy . Sure it was designed to cash-in on The Exorcist's success , but it's not the first movie to ride the coattails of another movie . Just look at all the sequels that Jaws spawned ( Piranha , Tintotera , Crocodile , etc . ) for an even better example . My problems with The Antichrist have nothing to do with comparisons to The Exorcist . Instead , I think that The Antichrist is a mess of a movie on its own . I suppose that for a movie of this type to be effective , it helps if the audience cares or has some sort of feelings for the characters . Other than the main character , Ippolita Oderisi ( Carla Gravina ) , we never learn enough about them to care what happens to them . As for Ippolita , she's so unlikable that I couldn't have cared less whether she was possessed or not . She's a bitter woman with no redeeming characteristics that I could discern . Even before the possession , she seems to relish making everyone's life miserable . And why should it bother me that she is possessed by the devil ? She asked for it ? literally . So , she got what she wanted . I had no sympathy for this woman , and without that , the movie doesn't work . There are other problems with The Antichrist beyond whether or not I cared about the main character . The acting is plain old bad . Even somewhat accomplished actors like Mel Ferrer look like their starring in the local amateur hour . In one scene , I swear he looks embarrassed to be anywhere near this film . The only actor of any consequence who comes off with any dignity in tact is Anita Strindberg and that's just because of her limited screen time . I suppose that I'll leave it at that and not write anymore about the other areas where the movie fails . Writing about everything I had a problem with in The Antichrist is like shooting fish in a barrel . I could target the special effects , a score that's not up to Morricone's high standards , or the cheap attempts to gross-out the audience , but you get the idea .
These Russian fantasy movies just don't appeal to me	I'll skip the normal plot synopsis and get right to it . Besides , anything I could write about the plot would hardly matter as the American bastardization of Sadko that I watched appears to bear only a passing resemblance to either the original Russian movie or the classic Russian folktale on which it was based . First off , I wonder whose bright idea it was to turn the character named Sadko into Sinbad . Let's see , Sadko is a poor Russian musician ? Sinbad is an adventurous Middle-Eastern sailor . A lot of similarity there , huh ? Secondly , I really have to wonder if the Russian version of the movie included anything about a quest for a bird of happiness . I say this because in the end the bird hardly seems to matter at all . It's almost as if the idea of the bird was added to the American version to give some sort of justification for " Sinbad " going to sea . Beyond the problems of Americanizing this Russian movie , I have problems with the bits of the original Sadko that seep through . As I stated in my recent review of The Sword and the Dragon ( aka Ilya Muromets ) , I'm not a fan of this style of Russian movie or acting . " The Sword and the Dragon seemed to be filled with such broad overacting that it became absurd . I realize that the movie was made over 50 years ago in the Soviet Union . I understand that the movie is filled with messages and other pro-worker propaganda . And I appreciate the importance of the film as a relic of the communist system . But none of that means I have to actually like the movie . " If you change the title of the movie , this quote accurately reflects my feelings on The Magic Voyage of Sinbad . And even though I realize that my appreciation of the movie might be improved if I were to have the opportunity to see the original film , I doubt the change would be drastic . Like many others , I saw The Magic Voyage of Sinbad through Mystery Science Theater 3000 . I enjoyed this episode much more than the previously mentioned The Sword and the Dragon episode . Overall , some very funny riffs . I'll give episode # 505 a on my MST3K rating scale .
" See how the Storm God licks his lips at the coming feast ! "	I'll try , but I'm not sure I can write a plot summary that's as long as that crazy title . A band of Viking women set out in search of their missing Viking men . Along the way , they run into a sea serpent and a whirlpool ( I'm not really sure how it all happened . The women meet this really horrible looking sea serpent that terrorizes them when all of a sudden , they are being pulled into a whirlpool . Are the two things related ? ? Honestly , I don't know . ) The Viking women find themselves washed up on the shores of a strange land where they are to be slaves . They discover their men are also being held as slaves and are working in the mines . Can the women free the men and escape to their homeland ? The Viking Women and the Sea Serpent ( the name I actually saw the movie under ) is a Roger Corman quickie ? and it shows . I'd be shocked to learn that it took more than a weekend to shoot the movie . And I'd be even more shocked to find out that anyone spent more than 10 minutes writing the thing . The plot is utterly ridiculous . The sets and costumes seem to have been leftovers from other Corman movies . The special effects in the form of the sea serpent are as low rent as you'll likely run across . And the acting , with the exception of Susan Cabot , is nothing to write home about . Overall , not one of Corman's better early efforts . And to make matters worse , The Viking Women and the Sea Serpent does not make for a very good episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000 either . I cannot remember laughing even once . Very much below average and worthy of a on my MST3K rating scale . ( However , the short that precedes the movie in Episode 317 called " The Home Economics Story " is often laugh-out-loud funny . I'd give the short a on its own . )
Mikey - What a guy !	A series of young women are strangled leaving the local police baffled . They catch a break when one young woman witnesses the killer in action . But she's unsure of what she's seen . And she's conflicted about telling the police that the attacker wore a jacket that looked just like her boyfriend's gang jacket . There's no way that her boyfriend could be a murderer , is there ? Of the 17 cast and crew-members listed on IMDb for Teen-Age Strangler , 13 have no other credits listed under their name . And two others have only two credits . Unfortunately , this lack of experience shows . During the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary , someone compares Teen-Age Strangler to a community theater production . It's a very apt comparison . Calling Teen-Age Strangler " amateurish " doesn't even begin to describe it . The acting is shoddy with stilted delivery ; the lighting , sound , editing , and other production values are poor ; the script is filled with unnatural dialogue ; and the sets and set design are what you might expect from using existing locations in Huntington , WV , circa 1964 . In short , it's not a very good movie and probably not even worthy of the rating I've given it . But despite its many flaws , there is a bit of entertainment to be had with Teen-Age Strangler . Granted , much of it is akin to watching a car crash , but the movie is not without its moments . First , while the production is amateurish , it does appear that everyone is giving it their best . There's a lot of that " let's pull together to put on a show " feeling to it . And surely that counts for something ? not much , but something . Second , the film features at least one surreal moment involving a barefoot girl singing and dancing on the counter at the local malt shop . And as utterly ridiculous as the song she sings may be , there's no denying it's an unforgettable scene ? Yipes ! Stripes ! Finally , there's Mikey . What a guy ! He raises the bar for whiny characters to new heights . His meltdown at the police station is classic ! So while it may not be much , I've come up with at least three things I " enjoyed " about Teen-Age Strangler . As I indicated , I watched the MST3K version of the film . Overall , it was an enjoyable experience and one of the really good episodes of the show I've seen . Funny stuff ! I'll give Teen-Age Strangler a on my MST3K rating scale .
Enough of the bad jokes already .	- Reena the Seer ( Monique Gabrielle ) seeks the assistance of Deathstalker ( John Terlesky ) for a perilous journey . Deathstalker doesn't know that Reena is really Princess Evie in disguise . Reena / Evie is looking for someone to help her overthrow Jarek the Sorcerer ( John Lazar ) who previously overthrew her . The journey is full of obstacles - a murderous band of cut-throats , zombies , and an Amazon army . Of course the pair finally reach their destination for the final face-off with Jarek . - Deathstalker II is just one in a long line of movies that were made to cash-in on the success of Conan the Barbarian . I realize that most of this movie is played for laughs . But most of the jokes are anything but funny . Deathstalker II rips-off so many other movies , but does so with very little success . Take the exchange between Deathstalker and evil Sultana ( Toni Naples ) - Deathstalker , " Do you expect me to talk ? " - Sultana , " No , Deathstalker . I expect you to die . " It's moments like this that left me cringing . - The acting is , for the most part , exactly what you would expect . Gabrielle delivers her lines with the conviction usually reserved for kindergarten plays . But , something tells me that Gabrielle wasn't hired for the role because of her ability as a thespian . Terlesky comes off as the kind of guy you just want to slap for being such a smart aleck . Lazar , looking like a Duran Duran wannbe , is anything but menacing . Naples , for whatever reason , plays her role in a mostly straight fashion that doesn't fit with the rest of the nonsense going on . - If your interested in a history lesson covering the type of movies Conan the Barbarian spawned or if you like overly obvious attempts at humor , Deathstalker II may be the movie for you .
Another in a long line of bad Sword and Sorcerer movies	- I don't know who Alejandro Sessa is , but the Executive Producer on this piece of trash was Roger Corman . Amazons is just another example of the garbage that Corman allowed his name to be attached to in the 80s . Why Roger ? Why ? - Amazons is almost devoid of any real entertainment . It's boring , dull , and lifeless . The dialogue and action are ridiculous . The " acting " ( and I put that word in quotes because I'm not sure it's appropriate to call what these people are doing " acting " ) is abysmal . And the plot is pointless . The real plot is about having scantily clad women run around with swords - end of story . - So , why do I rate this a and not lower ? Regardless of how bad it is , I have a soft spot for these 1980s Sword and Sorcerer movies . No matter how bad they are , every four or five years , I rewatch ' em . Sick , huh ?
" You filthy rotten bloody shark "	I wish I had something more positive to say about Devil Fish , but I honestly can't seem to come up with much . I can't even come up with many of those " so bad , it's good " kind of moments . Devil Fish is just plain old bad . The plot is completely derivative ( Jaws , anyone ? ) , the acting is wooden , the characters are uninteresting , the special effects are beyond bad , and the score is annoying . Add to that the seemingly inept direction of Lamberto Bava and you've got one stinker of a movie . I think , however , that the film's biggest sin is its lack of a budget . It doesn't appear that Bava had much to work with . By 1984 , the Italian film industry was in full decline ? especially as far as genre films go . The funding available to Bava was most probably very meager . Film's like Devil Fish that rely on special effects just never had a chance to be good . It's not the only Italian film to suffer this fate . There are a number of Italian movies made in the mid-80s whose ideas and concepts far exceeded what anyone could realistically have expected given their budgetary limitations . However , having said all that and noting the film's many weaknesses , I can't bring myself to rate Devil Fish lower than a . I've even considered rating it higher but can't because I realize how bad a movie it is . Why don't I rate it lower ? Well that's hard to explain . Despite the many problems found in the movie , there's something about Devil Fish that I inexplicably enjoy . It could be as simple as my love for low-budget , cheesy , Italian movies . Maybe my taste in movies is horribly skewed , but I enjoy what I enjoy . The Mystery Science Theater 3000 treatment of Devil Fish is actually very enjoyable . I rate Devil Fish a on my MST3K rating scale . The guys do a fine job of poking fun at the movie's many flaws . One very astute observation comes very early in the commentary when Tom Servo notes , " Just because you can edit , doesn't mean you should " ? highlighting yet another of the many weaknesses to be found in Devil Fish .
The Swinging 70s	Superchick is a bad movie lover's dream . The plot is utterly ridiculous . Tara B . True ( Joyce Jillson ) is , by day , a mild mannered stewardess ( they weren't called flight attendants in the 70s ) with a secret . Besides the long blond hair she hides under a brunette wig , she's also hiding a man in every city she regularly visits . Tara is a sexually liberated woman looking for a good time . The men she juggles think they are Tara's one true love and each wants to marry her . Tara will have none of that as she enjoys all her men too much to limit herself to one . However , one of her guys is mixed up with some crooks who want to use Tara to help them with their illegal plan . The plot isn't the only bad thing about Superchick . Joyce Jillson has to be one of the worst actresses ever given this much screen time . She's as unnatural with her delivery as you'll find . And the dialogue she does come across with is painfully bad . These are some of the silliest lines I've ever heard . The film is supposed to be a comedy , but I don't remember laughing at anything that was meant to be funny . The jokes are lame and miss their mark on a consistent basis . Superchick is so bad that my rating ( ) is probably over-generous . Fortunatley though , Superchick is one of those movies that's " so bad its good " . Much of the plot is soooo bad that it's actually laugh-out-loud funny . The swinging score , with a theme song very reminiscent of The Mary Tyler Moore Show , is catchy . Some of the action sequences are like a car wreck - impossible not to look at . You'll be amazed watching Tara use martial arts that must have Bruce Lee spinning in his grave . It's a riot . Finally , there's plenty of nudity and sex to keep things spiced up . Overall , it may be a horrible movie , but Superchick is watchable for its ineptness .
It's not hard to see why this one didn't make the network lineup	A malfunction in space sends astronaut Neil Stryker ( Glenn Corbett ) off course and headed to something of a parallel world , called Terra , circling the sun exactly opposite Earth . As a being from space would pose a threat to this world's order , Stryker is held until a determination can be made as to exactly what to do with him . Stryker , however , gets suspicious of his surroundings and escapes . With the help of a sympathetic nurse and a old scientist who opposes the government , Stryker will try to board a spaceship and head back to Earth . Stranded in Space ( or The Stranger if you prefer ) is another of those 70s made-for-TV movies that was to be turned into a regular , weekly show . In this case , it's easy to see why it didn't make it . First off , there's nothing new about the shows set-up . The show was undoubtedly designed to follow the same formula used by The Fugitive or The Incredible Hulk or Planet of the Apes . You know , a stranger constantly on the move going from one town to the next taking whatever odd job he can all the while being pursued by a government agency or newspaper reporter . It's a formula that's been done to death . The second strike against Stranded in Space is its lead , Glenn Corbett . Could this guy come across as any less likable ? I was rooting for him to get caught . Without sympathy for the main character , this kind of show would never work . Finally , this is supposed to be science fiction . What , just because everyone is left-handed and someone has hung three fake looking moons on the horizon I'm supposed to jump to the conclusion that this is some distant planet ? So it's a mere coincidence that they all speak English , dress just like people on Earth , and drive Plymouth Furies . Yeah , right . The lone highlight for me was the inclusion of Cameron Mitchell in the cast . Sure , it's difficult to watch him in something this dreadful , but you know the old saying - any Cameron is better than no Cameron ( yeah , I've never heard it either ) . As with a lot of these 70s made-for-TV movies , I watched Stranded in Space courtesy of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . I wouldn't call it a great episode by any stretch of the imagination , but there are a few good jokes along the way . So in the end , while I rate the movie a , it gets a on my MST3K rating scale .
" You guys are like mummy magnets ! "	I caught The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor with the family this past Friday night and couldn't be more underwhelmed by the experience . I'm not much of a fan of the first two Brendan Fraser mummy movies , but with Jet Li in the cast I was actually looking forward to this one . I honestly didn't expect much more than a mindless action movie . But what I wasn't expecting was something quite this vapid . Bigger and louder with more explosions isn't always a good thing . The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor went beyond being mindless to the point it began to insult my intelligence . The tissue paper thin plot ( which I'm not going to bother to even go into ) seems as if it were made up on the spot and merely serves to string together a series of action set pieces . And there is little to no attempt made at character development . If you aren't familiar with the other movies in the series , I bet you'd be hard pressed to know anything about Brendan Fraser's character . And whose bright idea was it to have Luke Ford play Fraser's son ? Was he born when Fraser's character was about 12 or something ? Just one of the many examples I could cite of things that really bothered me about The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor . Despite what I've written so far , the movie isn't a total waste . Some of the action set pieces really do work despite the idiocy surrounding them . For example , my single favorite scene in the film is when Jet Li faces off with Michelle Yeoh . It's magical ! Unfortunately , that scene only lasts for a minute or so and we're back to the action by-the-numbers nonsense . Finally , I feel the need to mention the opening 10 or so minutes that provide a back-story for the Dragon Emperor and many of the events to come . That looks like it might have been an interesting and intelligent movie . I'd pay to see that story fleshed out . What I won't pay for , however , is anymore of these Gawd awful mummy movies .
Lame	While I'm generally a fan of The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries , I'm not such a fan that I can't spot a bad episode . And it seems that in Season 2 , there are a lot of bad episodes . Mystery of the Avalanche Express is one of the worst . To begin with , the plot it just ridiculous . War profiteers ? Asylum seekers ? That's not the kind of stuff I associate the Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew getting mixed up in . What happened to the haunted barns or the UFOs or the other cool mysteries ? Neither the Hardys nor Nancy Drew do much of anything to solve a case or bring about a resolution to the situation . It's almost as if it's someone else's plot they just accidentally got involved in . For lack of a better word , Mystery of the Avalanche Express doesn't have the Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew " feel " to it . Next , I never cared for Janet Julian taking over the role of Nancy Drew , but in this episode , she's absolutely terrible . She's got some of the most unnaturally delivery I've heard . And she just doesn't fit the part . She looks too young . Like the scene where she's announces she a private investigator - it reminded me of a child with an overactive imagination making things up . Finally , when The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries originally aired , they were geared toward a young demographic . Can someone please explain to me the bizarre casting decision to hire the likes of Fabian , Edd Byrnes ( complete with laughable accent ) , Deborah Walley , Vic Damone , and a bunch of other has-beens for this episode ? I'm sure the kids in 1978 were beside themselves with the anticipation of seeing Tommy Sands ! I can't remember , but I'm sure I was . It's so lame !
When bunnies go bad !	The local ranchers are up in arms over the rabbits that have taken over their fields and destroyed the land they use for grazing their herds . A scientist comes up with the idea of using experimental gene therapy to wipe out the rabbits . But when one of his test rabbits escapes , the consequences prove deadly . The gene experiments have created a bunch of giant , blood-thirsty bunnies . KILLER RABBITS ! Is there any reason to say much more ? How in the world did Night of the Lepus get the green-light ? It's got to be one of the most ridiculous premises ever for a horror movie . I don't care how hard you try , you simply cannot make a rabbit look vicious . Most of the " special " effects consist either of filming rabbits from a low vantage point to try to make them look huge or of rabbits jumping around miniature sets of barns and houses . I'll admit that the sight of a rabbit with blood covering its mouth is a bit unsettling . But scary ? Not in the least . There must have been some actors hard-up for work in Hollywood in 1972 . For a movie about killer rabbits , Night of the Lepus boasts a cast far beyond what you would expect . I'm assuming that the good movie offers weren't rolling-in for Janet Leigh when this movie was made . The rest of the cast includes Stuart Whitman , Rory Calhoun , and DeForest Kelley . Each does an adequate job considering the embarrassing material they were working with . I realize that my rating ( ) is probably too high . Night of the Lepus really isn't even that good . But it does possess a certain camp appeal that I find some entertainment in . The cheese-factor alone is worth a point or two .
Time has not been kind	Having recently re-watched The Magic Sword for the first time in 30 or so years , I understand why it once appealed to me . Knights , monsters , magicians , curses , and a quest are things that would have appealed to a boy growing up when I did . Looking back on the film , I no longer find the same enjoyment I once did . It's as cheaply made as anything Bert I . Gordon had his hand in . The special effects are laughable , most of the acting is terrible , the dialogue is inane , and the plot twists are utterly predictable . The one saving grace I can found now is Basil Rathbone . His performance is on a level far above the rest of The Magic Sword . It's too bad he's got nothing to say or do that equals his abilities .
All the sleaze in the world can't save this movie	When Carol ( Vanessa Hidalgo ) starts looking into her brother's death , she begins to suspect something more sinister than " natural causes " . The closer she gets to the truth , the more of a threat she becomes to her sister-in-law , Fiona ( Helga Line ) , and the rest of the local Satanists . They'll do whatever is necessary to put a stop her nosy ways . If you're into sleazy , Satanic-themed movies , Black Candles has a lot to offer . The movie is filled with plenty of nudity and ritualistic soft-core sex . One scene in particular involving a young woman and a goat must be seen to be believed . Unfortunately , all the sleaze in the world can't save Black Candles . Most of the movie is a total bore . Other than the one scene I've already mentioned , the numerous sex scenes aren't shocking and certainly aren't sexy . The acting is spotty at best . Even genre favorite Helga Line gives a disappointing performance . The plot really doesn't matter . Its main function seems to be to hold the string of dull sex scenes together . I'm only familiar with one other movie directed by Jose Ramon Larraz . Compared with his Daughters of Darkness that masterfully mixes eroticism and horror , Black Candles comes off as amateurish . is about the best I can do .
" Whoa , minutemen ! "	Nick Miller has developed a means of time travel using a computer and his small airplane . Needing the funds to continue his experiments , he agrees to sell his invention to a large corporation named GenCorp . But Nick hadn't planned on how GenCorp would use his time machine . On his next trip to the future , he discovers a world in chaos where social order has broken down . Nick decides he must go into the past if he is to restore the future . Like most people on this sight , I came by Time Chasers courtesy of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . And while the movie is bad , it's not as bad as a lot of the stuff they showed . Oh , it's got the usual bad acting , a dorky lead , poor special effects , some ridiculous locations ( Others have mentioned it , but I've got to agree with the slamming of J . K . Robertson's office . The mezzanine of the local public library isn't a very effective or realistic looking location . ) , giant plot holes , and everything else you find in your typical , run-of-the-mill bad movie , but it's got something I wasn't expecting to find . It's actually got some good ideas buried under the rubbish . The whole notion of time travel , changing the future , and going into the past to make things right is a good , interesting concept . Unfortunately for the makers of this movie , I think their ideas far exceeded both their abilities and certainly their budget . It's too bad , because as I indicated , there are some good ideas to be found in Time Chasers . The MST3K treatment of Time Chasers is good ? actually , it's very good . The first time I saw it , I found myself laughing out loud . So , while I give the movie a , I'll give it a on my MST3K rating scale .
The Worst of Hammer	I've always enjoyed a good Hammer movie . I couldn't begin to list the number I've seen , but I could very easily put together a top 35 ? 40 Hammer movie list . Demons of the Mind would not appear anywhere on that list . It is without a doubt the worst Hammer film I've ever seen . The problem is not with the acting , directing , cinematography , or score , because technically it's a well made film . Instead , much of my problem rests with the plot . It plods along at a snail's pace introducing people and ideas that go nowhere . And when something does happen , like the attack scenes in the forest , I couldn't have cared less about what was going on ? I didn't know anything about the people involved . I've also got to give Demons of the Mind a thumbs-down when it comes to casting decisions . At the time this movie was made , Hammer was trying to build Shane Briant into the next big Hammer star . But he has a very unlikable on-screen persona . He's the kind of person that I can't wait to see die in one of these movies . I've never understood how anyone at Hammer thought this androgynous looking foppish boy was gong to replace the likes of Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing . To sum it up , if your idea of a good movie is a plot that goes nowhere and characters you either don't know or don't want to know , Demons of the Mind may be the movie you're looking for .
Predictable deserted island story with a number of television movie-of-the-week types and Hollywood has-beens	Mysterious Island of Beautiful Women is an utterly predictable deserted island story with a number of television movie-of-the-week types and Hollywood has-beens . The plot : A group of young Catholic school girls are evacuated during the Indo-China War . Their plane crashes on an island and the girls are left to fend for themselves . Fifteen or so years later , a plane carrying a group of men is forced to land on the island . At first the girls , now women , are leery of the men . But the women soon realize that the men and their guns may be able to help them defeat the headhunters who regularly visit the island . Everything about this television movie is telegraphed from a mile away . The women's reaction to the men ? predictable . The men's reaction to the wild women ? predictable . The fact that the women's leader , Lizabeth , is a nut-case ? predictable . The fact that the women's spiritual leader , Sister Teresa , is actually dead ? predictable . The narrow escape at the end from the headhunters ? predictable . There's not one surprising moment in the entire 90 + minute runtime . I was able to make coffee , do a load of laundry , and play with my son as I watched the movie and I didn't miss a thing . The ending of the film is a real letdown . Mysterious Island of Beautiful Women builds toward a promised showdown between the stranded men and the " beautiful women " with the headhunters , but it never materializes . Instead , everyone hops on the plane and takes off . What a cop-out !
Other than Feldman , not much to recommend	- Being too busy to take the case , Sherlock Holmes ' sends a client to visit his younger brother , Sigerson ( Gene Wilder ) . Along with his sidekick Sgt . Slacker ( Marty Feldman ) , Sigerson faces a client who can't tell the truth , missing government documents , an evil Moriarty , and an opera singing blackmailer . Can Sigerson solve the case and steal some of the spotlight from Sherlock ? - If you look across the internet , you'll likely find more positive reviews of this film than negative . I don't get it . There are a few good ideas , but much of this movie just isn't very funny . Wilder tries his best to make a film in the same vein as Mel Brooks ' Young Frankenstein , but fails to do so . It's a shame because Wilder assembled many of the same cast members that made Young Frankenstein so memorable . The blame has to go to the script ( also written by Wilder ) . It's a mess . In Young Frankenstein , screwball characters were placed within a recognizable story that drew inspiration from Universal's Frankenstein series . In Sherlock Holmes ' Smarter Brother , you have similar screwball characters , but there is no recognizable framework for them to operate . The movie might have worked had Wilder chosen to use the Basil Rathbone Holmes ' films as inspiration . - That's not to say that parts of the movie aren't funny . A few of Feldman's scenes brought more than a smile to my face . But these scenes were quickly followed by yawn inducing moments that took the steam right out of the movie . - Finally , what's up with Dom DeLuise ? Does anyone really think this guy was ever funny ?
" He who takes from Gwangi the evil one is cursed . "	I'm racking my brain , but I can't seem to think of another movie quite like The Valley of the Gwangi . A Western with dinosaurs ? What could be more natural ? You gotta wonder why John Ford and / or John Wayne never tried it ! The plot ? While searching for a mythical miniature horse for her circus , TJ Breckenridge ( Gila Golan ) , Tuck Kirby ( James Franciscus ) , and the rest of the cast / characters enter a strange , lost valley . There they find not only the miniature horse , but some other , more fearsome creatures as well . Dinosaurs rule this place . Now wouldn't that be an attraction at TJ's circus ? a caged T-Rex ? It's not that I find The Valley of the Gwangi a bad movie , I just don't seem to have enjoyed it as much as many others who have posted comments on the movie . There are some parts that I actually find almost unwatchable . For the first half of the movie , there just doesn't seem to be much going on . I wasn't necessarily bored , but I did want something to happen . Plodding would be an adjective I would use . To top it off , the movie features a very contrived love story . It feels forced as if the writers decided that the male and female leads just had to get together . But The Valley of the Gwangi isn't a total waste . There are moments I really enjoyed . Who doesn't get a kick out of the scenes of the cowboys on horseback trying to lasso a T-Rex . You just don't see stuff like that every day . Ray Harryhausen's creatures are impressive . There are some really cool shots of Harryhausen's miniatures interacting with people and horses . It might not represent the best of his work , but the effects are very nice . Still , at least in my mind these good moments aren't enough to overcome the negatives . As much as I hate to do it , I've got to rate The Valley of the Gwangi a .
An average , but unoriginal , little mystery	Phyllis Allenby ( June Lockhart ) is about to be wed . But a series of murders in a park nearby the Allenby estate attributed to a werewolf have her rethinking her plans . Phyllis is sick over the thought that she may be responsible for the grisly deaths . Muddy shoes , wet clothes , and blood on her hands found in Phyllis ' bedroom led her to believe that she may be the werewolf . Is Phyllis a werewolf , prowling the night looking for her next victim ? Other than the title , I'm not sure why Universal decided to include this one on their Wolf Man Legacy Set . She-Wolf of London has nothing in common with The Wolf Man . It's not a horror film . There is no werewolf ( or she-wolf for that matter ) . Instead , She-Wolf of London is an average , but unoriginal , little mystery . For the film to work , you have to believe that Phyllis Allenby is a murderer . Unfortunately , I never once bought into the notion that Phyllis was the killer , let alone a snarling werewolf . My real problem with She-Wolf of London is in the casting . While there are some nice performances from Sara Haden as the overprotective Aunt and Lloyd Corrigan as the bumbling Detective Latham , June Lockhart is horrible as the film's heroine . She is terribly miscast . Maybe it's just that I've seen her in too many roles as the caring , All-American mother , but she's not a believable killer .
Dracula the Diva	- A young couple is overjoyed to discover they've inherited a castle and plan to move in right away . But first , they'll have to evict the elderly couple who have been renting the place for 60 years . What the young couple doesn't know is that this is no ordinary elderly couple . It's actually Count and Countess Dracula . - How can a movie with Dracula , a giant hunchback named Mango ( no , not that Mango ) , a serial killer named Johnny who is especially vicious when the moon is full , a crazed butler named George ( played by John Carradine ) who rants on and on about the Great God Luna , a dungeon full of women chained to the walls , and ceremonial sacrifices be bad ? Well , this is Al Adamson we're talking about , so of course it's bad . For the most part it's just a hodge-podge of unrelated ideas thrown together whether it makes any sense or not . There's too much going on . - And take the decision to have the Count and Countess Dracula behave like wannabe divas . In Blood of Dracula's Castle , Dracula can't even be bothered to get his own blood . He has George and Mango draw the blood from the women in the dungeon with a syringe and serve it to him and the Mrs . in wine glasses . What is this , Lifestyles of the Rich and Dead ? - Almost every aspect of Blood of Dracula's Castle is bad . The acting is horrendous . Alexander D'Arcy is the worst Dracula I believe I've ever seen . Name anyone else who ever played Dracula and I assure you they were more convincing . Also , the movie is a technical mess . The editing is incredibly sloppy . The girls in the dungeon are kidnapped in a lush forest . Yet every shot of the castle shows it to be in the middle of a vast desert . How is that possible ? The sets are cheap . In one scene George is closing the lid of a coffin and it almost falls off . The continuity is terrible . Shoes appear and disappear from one scene to the next . And it goes on and on and on . . . - With all that being said , the movie is not without a certain charm and some funny moments . Whether the movie was meant to be intentionally funny or not , it is . Much of it is entertaining in that " so bad it's good " sort of way . If you're into cheese filled 70s movies , you might some entertainment in this one .
" A bird as big as a Battleship ! "	While doing a test flight to help with the calibration of a new radar installation , pilot and engineer Mitch MacAfee ( Jeff Morrow ) is buzzed by something that shouldn't be in the area . The radar didn't pick it up so no one in the military brass believes his story . They change their tune when airplanes start getting knocked out of the air by some sort of UFO that doesn't show up on radar . MacAfee , with the help of mathematician Sally Caldwell ( Mara Corday ) , comes up with a crazy idea and goes in search of his UFO . What he finds is a giant , strange looking bird-like creature from another galaxy . It had been years ( decades even ) since I last watched this movie . While I may not have remembered much about the plot or anything else , there's no way I or anyone else could forget the bird-like creature in The Giant Claw . It's hard to forget something like that . If you don't believe me , google an image and see for yourself . It's got to be one of the silliest looking creatures ever put on film . What's even more amazing is the time and effort someone put into this thing . With flaring nostrils and moving eyes , it's evident that some technician put a lot of energy into building it . Other than the creature , as goofy as it is , there's not much to see here . The plot is standard ( or slightly below ) 1950s stuff . The scientific mumbo-jumbo is thick and heavy by the movie's end . I'm no scientist myself , but The Giant Claw's " science " sounded particularly ridiculous . And the standard 1950s romance is all but nauseating in this one . I just don't see how anyone bought the relationship between Morrow and Corday . With his Bryle Cream infused hair , he looks ( and was ) old enough to be her father .
Lee and Cushing - One Last Time	Hammer's Dracula series started with a bang . THE HORROR OF Dracula is one of the best Dracula movies ever made . Hammer followed it with a number of sequels , including Dracula : PRINCE OF DARKNESS which some feel even exceeds the original . Hammer's Dracula run with Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing ended with THE SATANIC RITES OF Dracula ( SROD ) . It should have been fun to see Lee and Cushing reprising their roles one last time . But , it's not . What went wrong ? Several factors make SROD the worst of the series : 1 . The modern setting . With very few exceptions , Dracula is better played as a Gothic / historical drama . 2 . Age . By the time SROD was made , neither Lee nor Cushing was a young man . There are scenes where the aging Cushing is roughed-up and I actually worried about Cushing the man , not Van Helsing the character . 3 . Script . Dracula with a death wish ? Sure ! 4 . The ending . Without giving it away , I'll just say the new means of dispatching Dracula in SROD is , well , goofy . Dracula basically walks right into it . This is not to say there aren't good moments ( the vampire brides in the cellar , the office meeting between Dracula and Van Helsing ) , but they are too few and too far between . It's too bad that a series that started out with such a bang went out with a whimper .
If you've seen either Seven Samurai or The Magnificent Seven , the plot of Gladiators 7 should seem familiar .	If you've seen either Seven Samurai or The Magnificent Seven , the plot of Gladiators 7 should seem familiar . Gladiators 7 is the Italian / Peplum take on this winning formula . To help him avenge his father's death , Darius ( Richard Harrison ) rounds up six of his gladiator buddies . They train together , laugh together , and fight together with defeating a much larger and better armed force as their ultimate goal . As I said , it's not very original , but that's just part of the problem . The biggest issue I have with Gladiators 7 is with its lead , Richard Harrison . He's so unappealing that I could have cared less about what happened to him . He's dull and incredibly hard to root for . A few original twists to the plot and a different actor playing the film's main character might have made Gladiators 7 a good movie .
Divining for Heads	While out divining for water , a young psychic woman named Jessica Burns ( Carolyn Kearney ) stumbles upon something else altogether . She discovers a chest that has been buried for centuries on her aunt's ranch . Instead of the treasure her aunt is hoping for , the chest contains the head of Gideon Drew , a devil worshiper who was beheaded by Sir Francis Drake . Telepathically controlling the hired-hand who opened the chest , Drew's head goes on a murderous spree in search of the rest of his body ? also buried on Jessica's aunt's farm . While Jessica is certain she feels the presence of evil , can she put a stop to Drew's plans and will she be in time to prevent his becoming whole ? I thought I was fairly familiar with most of Universal's horror output prior to 1960 , but this is one Universal film from the 50s that certainly gets little mention . While The Thing That Couldn't Die isn't what I would call a " good " movie , it does have a few things going for it . First , the film has some interesting ideas and is actually rather ambitious . Director Will Cowan , whether by luck or intention , is able to give the movie some nice atmosphere from time-to-time . And , the special effects involving the head are certainly creepy . But the whole project is undone by the acting . I'm shocked to learn that any of the supposed " actors " in this thing ever appeared in anything else . You would think that this was a " one and done " type of movie for most of those involved . Kearney is the worst offender . She's horrible . Also , The Thing That Couldn't Die may have been a bit too ambitious for its own good . Given the budget and other limitations , there was no way the movie could aspire to its more lofty ideas . Finally , the movie ends rather abruptly . Just as things are starting to get interesting , The End . What's that about ?
Marisa Mell and Margaret Lee would give any Bond girl a run for her money .	I'll keep the plot synopsis short and sweet . Most of Secret Agent Super Dragon was so unnecessarily confusing that little of the plot seemed to matter anyway . In this James Bond wannabe , CIA agent Super Dragon ( Ray Danton ) goes up against a Venezuelan drug lord who uses candy to distribute his merchandise . Anything else beyond that wouldn't be much more than speculation as I found myself completely in the dark during much of the movie . I'm not one who needs to be spoon-fed plot points , but how about making what's going on just a little clearer ? Too much of the movie seemed like a series of unrelated set pieces that didn't fit together . But the biggest problem with Secret Agent Super Dragon is the same thing that plagues a lot of these James Bond inspired films ? money . The James Bond movies had the financial backing to pull it off . These Italian movies like Secret Agent Super Dragon can't match that kind of money . As a result , they suffer from weak scripts and acting , a lack of interesting multiple locations , poor special effects , a very anti-climatic ending , and anything else you can spend money on to make a movie better . That's not to say the movie was a total waste . In fact , I enjoyed quite a bit of it . Danton is above average in the title role . He's slick and clever ? just what you would expect from a secret agent . Marisa Mell and Margaret Lee would give any Bond girl a run fir her money . Finally , there is a sense of fun about the movie that I liked a lot . Those behind the movie were smart enough to never take it too seriously . As a result , the movie's light , almost bubbly , feeling is an asset .
More Columbo than Horror	I don't care that this movie is listed as a horror on IMDb or that the video cover art features hands coming from a wall to grab a woman or that the film is included on just about every budget horror set , Die Sister , Die ! has little in the way of horror to offer . There are moments of horror to be sure , but it's really more of a drama / mystery . If you're a fan of Columbo / 70s style mysteries , this movie might appeal to you . My problems with the movie have nothing to do with the way it has been incorrectly categorized over the years . Instead , I see weaknesses in the script and acting . Too much of the movie is just plain dull . Die Sister , Die ! might have been much more enjoyable with a tighter script and a shorter run time . There's just too much in the way of padding for my taste . As for the acting , Antoinette Bower is dreadful in the pivotal role of the nurse . She plays the role as a woman who appears on the verge of going comatose at any minute . The plot is standard 70s made-for-TV stuff . An older woman wants to commit suicide because of some unknown guilt . Her brother , seeking to inherit the family's fortune , would like to see her succeed . He hires a nurse to look after his sister and to make sure the next suicide attempt is the last one . The family doctor plays detective and puts the pieces together . There are some fairly entertaining twists and turns along the way , all leading to a satisfactory , if not predictable , conclusion . Fans of 70s Movie of the Week fare should definitely check this one out .
One of the weakest I've seen so far	As Urko plans his latest campaign to wipe-out the humanoids , Ape City is terrorized by a flying , prehistoric beast . The apes are not alone as the creature sees fit to frighten the humanoids and actually steals one of their cow-like creatures . Once again , Jeff , Bill , and Judy must save the human race . " Attack from the Clouds " has to be one of the very weakest installments I've seen so far in the Return to the Planet of the Apes series . The poor animation really hurts this one . The high flying scenes of creature and plane should be exciting . But not the way they're handled here . It's dull all the way through . And it doesn't help that much of the existing story line is pushed to the background . Oh well , there's always the next episode .
A very familiar plot	" Flames of Doom " is the first episode in the animated Return to the Planet of the Apes . If you are at all familiar with the basic Planet of the Apes storyline , not much in the first episode will surprise you . It features the basic set-up ? three astronauts ( one female named Judy and two males named Jeff and Bill ) crash on a mysterious planet that at first seems uninhabited . While searching for food and water , they run into a group of primitive humans . But the humans are not the dominate species on the planet . Instead , apes are in charge . By the end of the episode , Judy has disappeared in an earthquake fissure , Bill has been captured by the apes , and Jeff escaped with a primitive female named Nova . Other than setting up the rest of the series and the uncertain future of all three human characters , there's really not a lot I got out of " Flames of Doom " . It's just not terribly exciting . So instead of discussing " Flames of Doom " , I'll take this opportunity to write about a couple of my initial impressions of the series . First , it's really difficult to get used to Henry Corden doing the voice of General Urko . Whether he's giving orders to an underling or makes speeches to the ape council , Corden's Fred Flinstone voice is hard to take serious . Second , while I hope to get comfortable with Corden in a few episodes , I doubt I'll ever feel the same way about the animation . I wasn't expecting computer generated type images , but I do expect something more than what you'll find in this series . I'm not sure what you call this style of animation , but to me most of it looks like little more than a static background over which a camera moves attempting ( in vain ) to create the allusion of motion . There's nothing fluid or " animated " about any of it . I really hope things get better as I go along . After one episode , I'm not very impressed . So far , it's not difficult to understand why Return to the Planet of the Apes lasted only 13 episodes .
It's probably not as bad as you've heard	- Healthy men in a California town are dropping dead from coronary arrest . All died while having sex . A government investigator notices a resemblance between the men's deaths during sex and the sexual habits of bees . It's not long before he discovers that the town's women are being turned into bee-human hybrids . - There is enough goofiness to save this one from the bottom of the heap . Sure , it's got all the hallmarks of a bad movie ? bad acting , weak effects , silly story ? but there is a certain level of fun to be had . The absolute worst part of the movie , however , is a rape scene that's so " mean " it just doesn't fit with the rest of the silliness . - For those of you looking for nudity with your bad horror , there's quite a bit here to recommend . Look for " The Price is Right " model Anitra Ford .
It will never be confused with Godzilla	To be such a legendary kaiju and to have spawned a hoard of sequel , Gamera is a decidedly pedestrian film . Gamera was originally designed to be Daiei Studio's answer to Toho's Godzilla , but it's really no competition . From the moment Gamera makes his first screen appearance , the creature looks terribly silly . While I can believe in any number of kaiju ( Godzilla , Rodan , etc . ) , Gamera never works for me . A giant bipedal turtle with long arms and the ability to fly and breath fire ? it's just too absurd for words . But to be honest , the monster is the least of Gamera's problems . ( Before going on , because there are at least three different versions of the movie , I should probably point out that I watched the Sandy Frank version of the movie . ) I don't know if the little Japanese boy , Kenny , is as annoying in the other versions , but I wanted to strangle him the moment he appeared on screen . And his constant protests to save Gamera because he is good and a friend to children everywhere is particularly stupid given Germa rampage through downtown Tokyo . Some friend , huh ? Another big weakness is the use of miniatures in Gamera . Toho was particularly adept at solid miniature work . Even when they looked like miniatures it didn't matter because they looked so cool . Sadly , based on this movie , I can't say the same thing about Daiei's work . The miniatures in Gamera look more like toys than anything else . Fisher Price makes more authentic looking boats . It's difficult to take anything seriously when the special effects are so weak . Finally , the plot in Gamera is neither very good nor original . The parts that work seem to have been lifted from Godzilla and similar Toho movies . The parts that don't work are just plain old ridiculous . Take the final scenes and Gamera's fate ? I sat with my mouth open in amazement at what the movie was asking me to swallow . So in the end , while I can appreciate the importance of Gamera and its place in history , that doesn't mean I have to like it .
One of my least favorite episodes	In something I recently wrote for the Charlie's Angels episode called Angels in Vegas , I said that the show is " 70s television in all its glory . It's cheesy , unrealistic , and a whole lot of fun . If you're going to enjoy this stuff , you simply cannot take it seriously . " Angels in Springtime pushes the limits of my statement . I hate to sound like I'm contradicting myself , but the episode titled Angels in Springtime is a little too cheesy and a little too unrealistic . Sure , it was fun watching the Angels go up against Nancy Parsons and Mercedes McCambridge , but that's about it . The plot is even more obvious than normal for a Charlie's Angels episode . The fight scenes are overly staged and it's far too obvious that stunt people are involved . There's no mystery and no suspense ? not even the cheesy 70s variety . And , the scene near the ending has to be the stupidest , lamest idea ever . Kris has been kidnapped and is about to be put to death . But these criminals don't use a gun , a knife , an explosive device , an egg beater , or even a dead fish . Instead , they're using the most shocking , devious murder weapon ever devised ? hot bath towels ! Huh ? Wait a minute ! Did I miss something ? I've seen a lot of murder weapons used in television shows and movies , but warm , wet bath towels are new one on me . Oh the pain ! The agony ! To be forced to lay under three ( that's right , three ? not just one ) damp towels ? I'm shocked she was able to pull through .
" It's clobbering time ! "	Fantastic Four ( 2005 ) is essentially the origin story of this band of Marvel superheroes . The four soon-to-be heroes are sent into space , subjected to cosmic radiation , shocked at the resulting effects on their bodies , and band together to stop a would-be evil villain . An origin story like this would seem to be a good place to begin a franchise . Unfortunately , the results are incredibly mundane . For the first in a series , Fantastic Four felt awfully tired . There's just nothing here to get all that excited about . Special effects ? seen ' em before . Characters ? 2-D and paper thin . Comedy ? lame . Plot ? predictable . Acting ? is that what they were doing ? I can't think of one moment in the movie that made me sit up and take notice . There wasn't a single " Wow " moment for me . A lot has been made about the casting of Jessica Alba in the role of Sue Storm . Besides the fact that I've never understood the attraction of this Barbie of a woman , I thought she was terribly miscast . She's supposed to be Johnny's older sister ? Ridiculous ! I just love the scene where she scolds her " younger " brother . Watching Alba attempt to act mature is hilarious . And her relationship with Reed has all the chemistry of oil and water . Again , she's too young to pull it off . Finally , Jessica Alba as a genetic researcher ? Yeah , right . The worst case of casting since Denise Richards played a nuclear scientist in The World is Not Enough . Unbelievable !
Lackluster SW	As far as Spaghetti Westerns go , I'd put This Man Can't Die on the dull side of the genre . It's not that the movie is particularly bad , but it lacks the brilliance and flash of some of the other SWs I've seen . Guy Madison does his best in the lead role , but lacks the on-screen charisma necessary to pull it off . With one notable exception , the rest of the cast isn't particularly good . The direction is uninspired and offers very few moments that I haven't seen before . There's just not much to get very excited about . The cast exception I mentioned is Rosalba Neri . She's the one bright spot in this otherwise mediocre film . Unfortunately , her screen time is limited to less than 15 minutes . ( Note : The IMDb page for This Man Can't Die is wrong . Rosalba Neri does not play Jenny Benson . Instead , she is the character Melin . I'm not sure how anyone could mistake Rosalba Neri for some guy named John Bartha as listed in IMDb's credits for the movie . )
Stretches believability to the limit	Shayne ( Diane McBain ) , the leader of the Mini-Skirt Mob , has been jilted by her lover . Cowboy star Jeff Logan ( Ross Hagen ) left Shayne and has married straight-laced Connie ( Sherry Jackson ) . Shayne enlists the rest of her gang to help her get Jeff back ? even if that means killing him in the process . Oh , what a bad movie . This has to be the most unbelievable motorcycle gang I've ever seen . Most of the members of the Mob look like they've just spent hours working on their hair , make-up , and outfits . I've never seen women in a motorcycle gang so well quaffed . Watching Diane McBain ride a motorcycle has to be one of the funniest things I've seen . She looks so uneasy on her little bike as if she might fall over at any minute . The acting , for the most part , is just plain old horrible . McBain , Ross Hagen , and Sherry Jackson come across about as natural as McBain's piled-up , platinum hair . Logic doesn't exist . For example , if Logan is really such a champion rodeo star , why does he live in a camper that's smaller than my bathroom ? The problems with The Mini-Skirt Mob go on and on . So , why haven't I rated it any lower . There are some unintentional great moments in The Mini-Skirt Mob . It's all the things I've described that make the movie at least somewhat entertaining . Just when you think things can't get any worse , they do . The scene where the trailer blows up has to be a real highlight ( or lowlight , depending on how you look at these things ) . In a word , it's ridiculous . A couple of actors to keep an eye out for are Harry Dean Stanton and Patricia McCormack . It's hard to believe Stanton started out making this kind of stuff . He's definitely gone on to bigger and better things . As for McCormack , it was a treat to see the star of The Bad Seed ( 1956 ) all grown up .
Where's the mystery ?	- During a game of cards , one of the players is found the be a cheat . The others decide that running him out of town isn't good enough and lynch the cheater . Soon afterward , however , the men in the lynching party begin dying violent deaths . In the Old West , a showdown between two armed men was one thing , but murder is murder . - Considering the cast assembled for Five Card Stud ( Dean Martin , Robert Mitchum , Roddy McDowall , Yaphet Kotto , Denver Pyle , and Inger Stevens ) I expected a solid and enjoyable Western . And while each of these actors does their best to prop-up the movie , they are let down at almost every opportunity by uninspired directing and a weak plot . The movie is billed as a Western / Mystery . But , there's no mystery . It is so painfully obvious who the killer is that I'm shocked it took Dean so long to figure it out . Hathaway does nothing to add any suspense or drama . I was expecting , and hoping , for a big twist ending to save Five Card Stud , but it never came . - But the worst part of the movie has to be the editing . Five Card Stud is over-long and needlessly bloated with scenes that go nowhere and do nothing to advance the storyline . Better editing to create a tighter , leaner movie could have done wonders and might have made it really enjoyable .
" Get out of here , you disgusting ' worm ' ! "	Outlaw's plot comes straight out of the Sword and Sorcerer Handbook ? an evil queen kills her husband and blames it on the innocent hero , Tarl Cabot ( Urbano Barberini ) , so she might take control of the thrown . Cabot spends the rest of the movie trying to clear his name , undo the queen's evils , and return to his true love . Overall , Outlaw is one of the poorer examples of the Conan " inspired " rip-off I've seen recently . While the movie has a number of weaknesses , the most glaring is Barberini in the lead role . He makes for one of the most nondescript , unexciting heroes I've seen . He's completely unconvincing . And what's the point in announcing quite proudly in the movie that our hero is a vegetarian ? Was Outlaw funded by PETA ? What's the point in adding that to the movie ? It takes what is an otherwise namby-pamby hero and makes him even more so . Between the emasculated Tarl Cabot , scene after scene of a midget's hinder , an annoying side-kick named Watney , and an embarrassed looking Jack Palance wearing one of the goofiest looking hats imaginable , you've got the recipe for one bad movie . Yet I haven't rated Outlaw as low as I could have . Why ? Well , I have a weakness for this kind of movie . I tend to enjoy most sword and sorcerer type movies , even the bad ones . That , plus some of the outfits worn by Donna Denton , seems to be enough to warrant a point or two .
One of Universal's poorer efforts	Captive Wild Woman is proof that not all of the Universal horror movies of the 30s and 40s should be considered " classics " . I've seen worse movies , but this is certainly one of the poorer Universal efforts I've thus far run across . The plot description on IMDb ( " A mad scientist transplants human glands into a gorilla , turning the ape into a beautiful young woman ( Acquanetta ) . However , a severe emotional jolt soon reverts her back into her primitive self with disastrous consequences . " ) only describes about half the movie . Seriously , the story of the gorilla turned to woman and back again doesn't take up half the movie's already short 61 minute runtime . The other half is made up of scene after seemingly endless scene of lion taming . It gets dull pretty quickly and zaps whatever energy the movie might have otherwise had going for it . Ape-turned-woman Acquanetta doesn't do much of anything other than stand mutely outside the cage and stare at the lions . How exciting is that ? But if you've seen any of her other movies , having her stand like a statue is probably the extent of her acting ability . Milburn Stone is alright as the lion tamer . He also has the enviable task of man-handling Evelyn Ankers at every opportunity . Speaking of Ankers , she's wasted in a " do nothing " role . Finally , there's John Carradine . While he's actually very good , his screen time is too limited what with all the lion taming going on . More rampaging gorilla , someone other than Acquanetta playing the gorilla woman , more Carradine , something for Ankers to do , and less lion taming ? that's what Captive Wild Woman needed .
" All the Kings horses and all the Kings men cannot put the witches together again "	Through hypnosis , a woman is able to visit a previous life where she is to be put to death for being a witch ? a charge of which she is innocent . But if she is able to change her fate and avoid the executioner's ax , what will that mean for her future ? How will changing history affect the present ? Come on people ! While The Undead does present a few interesting ideas and a couple of entertaining moments , it's not worthy of the praise it has received in many of the reviews on IMDb . I started to think that maybe all these people watched a different movie . The Undead is a low-budget Roger Corman quickie that's just not very good regardless of what Leonard Maltin thinks . I just don't get it . When one of the most positive aspects of the film I can think of is the fit of Allison Hayes ' outfits , you can get a good idea of my thoughts on the movie . My is incredibly generous .
" Monsters belong in B movies . "	I saw the remake King Kong the other night for the first time and have to say I was disappointed . I had recently read some positive things about the movie from some people I trust , so my hopes of discovering a good and enjoyable movie were up . But in the end I had way too many problems with the movie . I could make a rather long list , but I'll stick to highlighting a few things that really bugged me - 1 . If I had to watch one more scene of Ann Darrow making googly eyes with a gorilla , I think I might have hurled . 2 . Good idea , sport . Close your eyes and shoot bugs off your friend with a machine gun . 3 . Ann Darrow certainly can take a licking and keep on ticking . I mean how was she not seriously injured , let alone killed , after the handling she received during the T-Rex fight . 4 . The CGI in the dinosaur stampede scene was dreadful . 5 . Jack Black ! It's not that the whole movie was a complete waste . There were some very nice things about King Kong to enjoy ( the CGI Kong , Naomi Watts , some of the opening sequence ) . I suppose the biggest fault I find with King Kong relates directly to the director , Peter Jackson . How in the world he thought he could take 60 or so minutes of material and stretch it to fill a 3 + hour movie is beyond me . Sometimes less is more .
It never goes far enough	The Doll Squad is a specially trained group of women who kick butt for the government . When a NASA rocket is blown-up after takeoff , the CIA calls in The Doll Squad to find out who's behind the sabotage and put a stop to it . To do this , the women must infiltrate a secret and heavily guarded island belonging to Eamon O'Reilly , an ex-CIA agent turned would be world dominator . Can The Doll Squad succeed in their mission ? The Doll Squad could have been great . It's got a lot of that 70s exploitation feel to it , but it never goes far enough . It's as if director Ted V . Mikels takes things to the edge but never lets the movie go over-the-top into some really cheesy good territory . With a little more camp , it could have been a winner . The Doll Squad is also surprisingly tame . Amazingly , the women stay button-upped throughout . You won't confuse them with a band of vestal virgins , but it's not the skin flick you might expect . Production and technical aspects are non-existent . Special effects are far from " special " . The rocket isn't the only explosion in The Doll Squad and , unfortunately , they all look identical ? a giant wash of red color covers objects as they disappear . The scene framing is laughable . Many of the interior scenes were shot in a normal , everyday looking house ( not dissimilar to one my aunt live in ) . Characters routinely disappear behind low hanging chandeliers during the middle of a conversation . And , I'm not sure " acting " is the right word for what's going on in this movie . Mikels has said that Aaron Spelling all but ripped-off The Doll Squad when he made the television show Charlie's Angels . One difference is that Farrah and Company came across as award winning actresses compared with what's presented in The Doll Squad . So if it's as bad as I've written , why haven't I rated The Doll Squad lower than a ? Well , while it never goes over-the-top as I would have preferred , there still some enjoyable set-pieces . And , any movie as goofy as this is bound to be filled with some of those " so bad it's good " moments . Watching a woman with a machine gun take out a gang of hard-charging guards with weapons drawn ( who never get a shot off , by the way ) is a pretty fun thing to watch .
A mad scientist's work is never done	I really appreciate and admire the effort the mad scientists of the 40s and 50s put into their work . Always injecting mysterious fluids and exposing bodies to different types of radiation in the pursuit of some " noble " purpose . They were so single minded in their focus that noting could get in their way . So what if their test subjects were dying or turning into hideous monsters , it was the experiment that was important . John Carradine plays just this kind of scientist in The Unearthly . He hopes by adding a new gland to a human body that he can find the secret of immortality . It helps that he has a house full of patients who know nothing of his experiments , but are there for rest and relaxation . Of course ( and as expected ) something goes wrong with each experiment resulting in a variety of monsters living in the doctor's basement . Also ( and as could be predicted ) one of the patients is on to the doctor and plans to put a stop to his experiments . To a certain degree , if you've seen one of these low-budget mad scientist films , you've seen ' em all . The Unearthly is really no better or worse than most of the others . It's hampered by the same budget constraints , lack of original ideas , weak script , and gigantic plot holes that plague a lot of these movies . On the plus side , The Unearthly has quite a decent cast with Carradine , b-movie favorite Allison Hayes , Playmate Sally Todd , and Miss America 1946 Marilyn Buferd . Also , he may not have been much of an actor , but Tor Johnson does have a certain screen presence . In my mind , the negatives outweigh the positives resulting in the ( generous ) rating . Unfortunately , The Unearthly doesn't make for one of the better Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes I've seen . The jokes really felt flat . I cannot remember laughing at much of any of it . I'll give The Unearthly a on my MST3K rating scale - find another episode to put on your " to see " list .
There are other , much better examples of the genre	I think most fans of cannibal / jungle type films will agree that Cannibal Holocaust is the Granddaddy of the genre . Amazonia : The Catherine Miles Story was originally marketed as a sequel to that film . But , Cannibal Holocaust it ain't . To my surprise , most of the reviews of Amazonia that I've read have been positive . And while I certainly found elements of the film enjoyable in the way that only a good exploitation film can be , there are far too many problems I have with the film for me to consider it much more than average at best . What Works : - The Gore : If you're a fan of the red stuff , Amazonia delivers . While the total number of scenes of gratuitous gore may be fewer than in some other films of this type , the gore is very well done and , for the most part , reasonably realistic . I was especially impressed with a scene depicting a human head being cut off . There are scenes in this movie that are definitely not for the squeamish . - Plot Ideas : It may not be completely original , but I liked the idea of the kidnapped young girl living with and growing in the Headhunter society . It presents the opportunities for some interesting set-pieces . What Doesn't Work : - It's Not Really a Cannibal Film : Regardless of how it was marketed , Amazonia isn't really a cannibal movie . The film's only real cannibals are dispatched within five minutes of making their appearance . - The Acting : Elvire Audray as Catherine Miles is positively wretched . Everything she does and says further reinforces the notion that she's a second rate actress . The rest of the acting is no better . One look at the courtroom scenes should be enough to demonstrate to anyone just how bad the acting is . - A Sappy Love Story : If I sit down to watch a trashy , Euro-cannibal film , I want a trashy , Euro-cannibal film . Unfortunately , Amazonia is full of too many melodramatic , sappy moments . And that ending is straight out of a Lifetime movie . It's beyond ridiculous . - The Headhunters : I hate to compare any film of this genre with Cannibal Holocaust , but it's hard not to . The cannibals in Cannibal Holocaust look like the real deal ? wild , savage , dirty , and all but alien . In contrast , the natives in Amazonia are too clean . Most look like they've just had a shower , a shave , and a hair cut . And am I seriously supposed to believe that one of these Headhunters knows English ( or Italian or whatever language ) ? That must have been some kind of correspondence class she was taking . Overall , Amazonia is a weak film when compared with other movies of its ilk . It's neither as good and powerful as Cannibal Holocaust nor is it as silly and fun as something like Massacre in Dinosaur Valley . If you're a fan of this kind of movie you might find something worthwhile , but , overall , it's liable to be a disappointing experience .
The gang may be here , but it's nothing to get excited about	A series of truck hijackings threatens to put the Overland Transport Company out of business . In fact , the company is so desperate , they agree to hire the inexperienced team of Frankie O'Malley ( Frankie Darro ) and Jeff Smith ( Mantan Moreland ) to be their saving grace . But who's really behind the hijackings ? When Frankie and Jeff find themselves on the wrong end of a gun barrel , it soon becomes apparent just who the bad guys really are . It's a good thing that The Gang's All Here only runs 61 minutes . Anymore and it would have overstayed its welcome . Oh , it's okay I suppose in an inoffensive sort of way , but it's an awfully lifeless way to spend an hour . While some of the movie is mildly entertaining , most scenes are just plain old dull . The only real entertainment comes from Mantan Moreland . He's one of those few people with enough talent and screen presence to make anything worth watching at least once . This is the first movie I've seen where Moreland is paired with Frankie Darro . I've noticed that the two made a few more movies together , but I'm not sure how much of a hurry I'm in to seek them out . Darro did absolutely nothing for me . In fact , I more often than not found his on-screen persona annoying . The rest of the cast is unremarkable and completely unmemorable . The plot ? boring is the first word that comes to mind . And the supposed action sequences are anything but . Maybe there are better Darro / Moreland movies out there , but it will be a while until I'm up for discovering them .
Raquel and nothing else	- Two brothers fight to succeed their father as the leader of a tribe of cavemen . Along the way , the run into dinosaurs , an earthquake , and Raquel Welch . - I've always found this movie a fairly boring affair . The story is uninvolving , much of the acting is very stiff , and it doesn't help matters that not a word of English ( or any other language ) is spoken in the entire movie . There are some Ray Harryhausen special effects , but they seem out of place here . The best thing that can be said about One Million Years B . C . is that it launched the career ( big time ) of Raquel Welch . - To sum it up , other than the Harryhausen special effects ( and the Raquel Welch special bikini ) there's not much here to enjoy .
Funny , but little else to recommend	- The evil Dr . Arcane ( Louis Jourdan ) , thought to be dead at the end of the original Swamp Thing , is alive and well . His life , however , will be short-lived unless he is able to reverse his cell degeneration . Up to this point , his experiments have yielded only horribly disfigured mutants . Fortunately for the Doctor , his step daughter , Abby ( Heather Locklear ) , arrives to confront him about her mothers death . With her DNA , Arcane may be able to save himself . But , lurking nearby is Swamp Thing - Dr . Arcane's nemesis who is intent on stopping him . - I've seen this movie at least a half a dozen times . With each viewing , I want it to be good . Although bits and pieces are enjoyable , overall it's just not a very good movie . For the most part The Return of Swamp Thing fails at being an action movie , it fails at being a sci-fi movie , and it fails at being a horror movie . Some of the acting , particular that of Monique Gabrielle , is noticeably wooden . I doubt that Gabrielle has ever delivered a line that sounded natural . Some of the special effects , particularly a few of the mutants , are anything but special . Many of the plot points can be seen from a mile away . For example , when we are introduced to Abby , we are told that she's the kind of person who prefers plants to people . Gee , I wonder who will be her love interest in the movie ? - The movie does achieve a little success , however , at being a comedy . Some of the lines are genuinely funny . For example , when Swamp Thing reminds Abby that their budding relationship will be hampered because he's a plant , her response " That's okay , I'm a vegetarian . " Not great , but it does bring a smile to my face . Another scene that I'm fond of involves Jourdan poking a little fun at himself . Jourdan's pet parakeet happens to be named Gigi . Jourdan sings a little song to Gigi that's a take-off of the songs in what may be his most famous movie , Gigi . - As I had seen this movie several times before , on this occasion I watched with the commentary on Image's DVD . Few commentaries are as informative as this one . Listening to Director Wynorski , it's amazing the detail he remembers about making The Return of Swamp Thing . It's one of the better commentaries I've heard in a while .
Watchable - but that's being generous	It's difficult to write a plot description for a movie like The Monkey Hustle . On its surface , it would seem to be the story of a diverse group of people banding together to stop a proposed freeway from destroying their community . But the movie is just as much about a cheap , small-time hood named Daddy Foxx ( Yaphat Kotto ) and the boys he trains in hustling . Then again , The Monkey Hustle is about the relationship of two young people and what they go through to be together . Or is the movie really about a flamboyant would-be gangster named Goldie ( Rudy Ray Moore ) maintaining his control over a community through force ? Actually , The Monkey Hustle's plot is a mish-mash of ideas that , unfortunately , never seem to hit their mark . It's supposed to be a comedy , but I can only think of a couple of instances that I found remotely amusing . And even though The Monkey Hustle gets lumped in with the blaxploitation movies of the period , it lacks the sex , violence , and emotional charge necessary to be considered as such . What does it say about a movie when the most generous adjective I can come up with to describe it is " watchable " ? Did you ever watch a movie and feel like a reel or two were missing ? That's how I felt after watching this movie . A big part of the plot is that Daddy Foxx has " something " on Godlie . Likewise , they both seem to have " something " on the Alderman . Infuriatingly , the movie never spells out or even hints at what the characters have on each other . In the films finale , we see Daddy Foxx and Goldie wink knowingly at each ? but why ? It just doesn't make any sense . I feel like I feel asleep and missed crucial plot points . I normally don't get into the messages or meanings of the movies I watch , but with The Monkey Hustle , I feel almost compelled to at least mention the mixed messages it sends out . Why are Daddy Foxx and Goldie made out to be the heroes ? They don't do much of anything of value for the community . And neither man has any moral issues when it comes to stealing from their neighbors , thereby helping to maintain the status quo of poverty . It's a shame that the one educated black man in the community who was responsible for organizing the save the community block party isn't given any of the credit . Instead , it's the hustlers and the number runners who come out looking good as the real hero is shoved into the background .
It should be quite obvious to anyone watching who the killer really is .	A modern day Jack the Ripper is on the loose in London . The police and other government officials are concerned that a play concerning the Ripper's activities may have been , at the least , the inspiration for the rash of murders . In fact , the police view the actor who performs as Jack the Ripper each night as their primary suspect . Has this actor become so obsessed with his role that it's spilled out into everyday life ? What Works : - That Jazzy Score . One positive aspect of the film worth mentioning is the score . Martin Bottcher has created an incredible , over-the-top , jazzy score that suits the film . It's a good representation of the music I expect when watching a Krimi . Very nice ! - The Look . The Monster of London City is full of those dark streets and creepy alleyways that seem to breed knife-welding killers . These are the kind of places that I sure wouldn't want to walk through alone . It's a great look that is effective in creating the occasional suspenseful moment . What Doesn't Work : - The Plot . The biggest flaw I see with The Monster of London City is in the plot . It's predictable and , as a result , there's really very little suspense . It should be quite obvious to anyone watching who the killer really is . Suspect after suspect are thrown at the viewer with little effect . It's far too easy to see through these red herrings and arrive at the correct conclusion . - Acting . For the most part , the acting is emotionless . I've seen inanimate objects with the ability to emote better than these people . Many of them appear just this side of being bored to tears . - The Comic Relief . I've seen several other Krimis that contain comic relief , but The Monster of London City takes it a bit too far . The bumbling husband and wife detective duo have far more screen time than they should have . While they are occasionally funny , their act takes away from the serious nature of the plot and feels like an unwelcome intrusion . In summary , it's not that The Monster of London City is the worst example of a Krimi you can find , but it's nowhere near the best . I'll keep watching these films because you never know when you're going to run across a real winner .
" Actually , Captain , I am familiar with history . And if I'm not mistaken , you're dead . "	I remember seeing Star Trek : Generations in the theater back in 1994 . At the time , I was so heavily into Star Trek : The Next Generation that anything with Picard and Data was going appeal to me . Seeing it now , some 13 years later , the best word I can think of to describe the experience is " silly " . Oh , I enjoyed bits and pieces of the movie , but overall , Star Trek : Generations has to be one of the silliest movies I can remember seeing recently . From an overweight and much too old William Shatner attempting to play an action hero to the incredibly annoying subplot involving Data and an emotion chip , it's all so silly . How in the world did I ever think this tripe was good ? The plot involves a scientist named Soran ( Malcolm McDowell ) and his attempt to enter a mysterious energy ribbon called the Nexus . His plan , though , would require the destruction of the Enterprise and an entire planet . Captains Picard and Kirk must put a stop to the madman's plans . The best thing Star Trek : Generations has going for it is McDowell . The man proves once again that regardless of the poorly written script and ridiculous plot , he's capable of giving a solid performance . In comparison , I'm really not shocked to see that most of the rest of the Star Trek cast has done very little of note since this movie .
Another movie I really wanted to like	Policewoman Lacy Bond ( Sondra Currie ) longs for more interesting and meaningful assignments than guarding female prisoners . After almost single handedly thwarting a mass prison escape , Lacy catches the eye of her superiors and is finally given her big chance . Her assignment ? go undercover to bust up an all-girl smuggling ring . But she better be careful , because this gang is deadly . I loved the opening prison break scenes . They had a quirky feel to them that worked . After the first 10 minutes , I thought for sure I had found a winner . But after getting off to a great start , once the real plot kicks in , Policewomen loses steam . What should have been a wild , fun ride turns into . . . well , in a word , it gets boring . The plot has way too much talk and not enough action or sleaze . The case that Lacy Bond finds herself involved in isn't terribly interesting . I can't really blame Sondra Currie . She may not be the best actress I've seen ( in fact , she's downright bad ) , but she sure does give it her all . I am happy , however , to see that after Policewomen she went on to have a good career . The casting of Elizabeth Stuart as the ring-leader Maude and Phil Hoover as her boyfriend Doc was an interesting choice . I'm not saying it was a good choice , just interesting . Policewomen also features some of the sloppiest editing I've run into recently . Big , obtrusive splices right in the middle of action scenes . It's pretty obvious that Currie and the other actors had problems with the action so cuts had to be made to set-up and finish a scene . It's really weak . The film's final scenes do help redeem the movie somewhat , but not enough to make me call the movie " good " . For what it's worth , I've rated Policewomen a very generous .
A weak , unsatisfying , and disappointing affair	Based on several aspects of the plot description for this 2006 BBC version of Dracula , it would be understandable to ask what this production has to do with either the Bram Stoker novel or the many film adaptations that came before it . In this version , Lord Holmwood , with the assistance of a Satanic / blood cult , sends for Count Dracula hoping for a cure to the syphilis he inherited from his parents . He saw what the disease did to them and wants to rid his body of the disease before he marries his fianc , Lucy . Count Dracula arrives in England , but has other plans in mind that do not include Lord Holmwood . Dracula views England as the center of a new empire he wants to control . And his first victim ? Lucy . Honestly , though , these changes to the traditional Dracula plot ( other than those involving the Van Helsing character ) had little effect on my enjoyment or lack thereof of this movie . What really did in the BBC's Dracula for me was the sloppy direction and poor acting . While much of the movie looked good ( And don't all period BBC pieces ? ) , it felt so rushed that there was never a chance to get to know the characters or to build atmosphere or do any of those things necessary for effective period horror . The movie jumps from scene to scene to scene without providing either establishing shots or taking the time for a scene to end properly . Quick camera cuts , poor lighting , overusing hand held camera shots , and MTV-style editing are just a few of the sins that I'm laying at the feet of director Bill Eagles . As for the problems I had with the acting , other than David Suchet ( who is on camera far too briefly ) , I cannot name an actor who stood out . They were either just plain old bad ( Sophia Myles as Lucy and Stephanie Leonides as Mina ) or they were wrong for their part ( Tom Burke as Dr . Seward and Marc Warren as Dracula ) . While a few random set-pieces were quite nice , there are too many problems for me to call this Dracula a good movie . Overall , the BBC's most recent stab at filming Dracula is a weak , unsatisfying , and disappointing affair . For what it's worth , I'll give it a .
" Women can make a difference ! "	When I write one of these things , I generally try to sound reasonably intelligent . I try to do more than write " It SUX " or " Best Movie I've Ever Seen " . I honestly try to put a little more thought into it than that . But with Angel's Revenge ( or Angels ' Brigade ? which I actually prefer ) , I'm at a loss . Angel's Revenge has to be one of the stupidest movies I've ever seen . No deep insightful stuff here ? just stupid ! At every opportunity , the movie completely insulted my intelligence . Want an example ? ? The mere fact that this group of women in matching white jumpsuits could sneak into a heavily guarded compound with their feathered hair and jiggling breasts and successfully disarm the bad guys with their lame attempts at martial arts and blow-up the place would insult the intelligence of anyone with an IQ above that of pond scum . With that being said , it's hard to admit that I actually enjoyed much of Angel's Revenge . Regardless of how bad it was , I was inexplicably entertained . There's just something about mindless 70s junk that I can't resists . I can't bring myself to rate it any lower than a . Angel's Revenge is yet another MST3K viewing for me . I've always thought that MST3K did some of their best work with movies like this ( include Mitchell and San Francisco International in that mix ) . The riffs are often laugh-out-loud funny . On my MST3K rating scale , I give this episode a ? an episode worth seeking out . Finally , I've seen Angel's Revenge compared with Charlie's Angels in a number of reviews . While Charlie's Angels may have " inspired " the making of Angel's Revenge , the comparison should end there . Kate , Jaclyn , and Farrah come across as thespians when compared with this group of women !
Wasted Potential	- Auntie Roo is crazy . The opening scenes leave little to the imagination as to her mental state . The movie begins with Auntie Roo singing a lullaby to a little girl . As she finishes her song , the camera goes to a close-up of the child sleeping in bed . But there is no child . Only the mummified remains of what was once Auntie Roo's daughter . - Before I saw the movie , I had thought and hoped that with Shelly Winters playing the crazy Auntie Roo the movie would be a fun watch . But it doesn't live up to its potential . My biggest problem with Whoever Slew Auntie Roo ? is that it never goes far enough in showing how mad Auntie Roo is . It's as if Auntie Roo's madness is allowed to reach a certain point and the director pulls it back in . That's not to say there aren't some moments of fun to be had watching the crazy Auntie Roo racing around the house in her morning clothes , complete with black veil . But there aren't enough of these moments . The only thing that might have saved Whoever Slew Auntie Roo ? would have been to allow things to go over the top and into the realm of camp and absurdity . As it is , it's all too tame and rather dull . - Another thing that might have helped the movie would have been to reveal just how insane Auntie Roo is later in the movie . Unfortunately , we see Auntie Roo at her most batty right from the beginning . Once you've seen Auntie Roo put the mummified body of her child to bed , you aren't really shocked at some of the other things she's capable of . Saving the revelation to end would have created the opportunity for more surprises and tension throughout the movie .
It's unfair to compare it with the big budget movies of today .	A string of deaths and disappearances on the roadways of a rural Texas town has the sheriff at a loss for an explanation . Trucks and cars seem to be sliding of the road sideways with their drivers nowhere in sight . When the local drunk reports having seen something strange on the road , he is dismissed by the sheriff . But when others report the same mysterious sight , the sheriff can no longer ignore the truth . His town is under attack by a giant lizard the size of a bus . While I can understand people disliking The Giant Gila Monster , I think it's unfair to compare it with the big budget movies of today . Sure , the special effects are weak , but look what the director had to work with . If you look close , you'll see some talent in the miniatures used in the effects shots . Sure , some of the acting is bad , but look at the performances turned in by Don Sullivan , Fred Graham , and Shug Fisher . I get the distinct impression they were giving it their all regardless of how silly the script must have seemed . Sure , there are a lot of faults you can find in The Giant Gila Monster , but I tend to see a film with a lot of charm made by people who seem to have a love for their craft . Surely that's worth something . I'm shocked to see that Don Sullivan only made a handful of films . I thought he was by far one of the best things The Giant Gila Monster had going for it . He seemed to be a good looking , decent actor with a nice singing voice . Why didn't he do more ?
" I grow more and more convinced that the wisest and the best is to fix our attention on the good and the beautiful . "	While on a mission to find the whereabouts of a missing space ship , Captain Frank Chapman ( Dean Fredericks ) is forced to make a crash landing on a roving asteroid . There he discovers a race of people only a few inches tall . Before he quite knows what's going on , he is shrunk to their size . With little hope of escape , Chapman helps the tiny people in their ongoing battle with a racing of warring creatures . Also , and quite unexpectedly , Chapman finds love on this strange planet . Even with rating I've given The Phantom Planet , I realize that may be too high . There are obvious weaknesses , but I just don't think the movie is as bad as its reputation would suggest . Just as I wrote about Teenagers from Outer Space , underneath the cheese is a nice little story just aching to get out . The acting isn't the best , but everyone seems to give it their all , especially Fredericks in the lead role . Other than the creature special effects , the rest are nicely done given the time period The Phantom Planet was made and the obvious budget constraints . Without being overly original , the plot kept me fairly entertained throughout . And isn't that why we all watch movies in the first place ? to be entertained ?
Godzilla Does Red Lobster	I never thought I would find a Godzilla movie where Godzilla was the weakest part of the film . In most these movies , the various scenes not involving Godzilla could generally be considered filler . They're there to pad out the film until Godzilla shows up and usually aren't very good . The filler in Godzilla vs . the Sea Monster isn't any better or worse than any of the other Godzilla movies ( though I must admit to enjoying the James Bond vibe and the groovy dance party ) , but it's better than Godzilla's moments on the screen . The problem is that Big G doesn't get the chance to do much . This is Toho " on the cheap " . The usual rampage through the city is gone . It was cheaper to have Godzilla destroy a mostly deserted island with only a small science / military facility than it was to build an entire city of miniatures . And the few miniatures to be found don't even looks up to snuff . When not trampling the cheap miniatures , Godzilla spends an inordinate amount of time just sitting . That right ? sitting ! And when he does finally do battle with the sea monster of the title , it's not much of a match . In no time at all , Godzilla rips off the overgrown lobster's claws and its over . Almost 90 minutes to see this non-event ? what a waste !
I really wanted to like this movie	Plot : A woman inherits a castle from a distant relative . When she arrives to take possession , she learns her castle is a home for the undead who want to bring her into the family . I really wanted to like Fangs of the Living Dead , but two things really hampered my enjoyment . First , there are far too many stretches of the movie that are quite simply boring . It's not that I mind a slow moving story , but this thing is downright dull in places . Second , and this more of a personal preference , but the main character as played by Anita Ekberg is annoying . For a horror movie to be really effective , it helps if you care about the characters . I wanted Ms . Ekberg's character ( and Ms . Ekberg for that matter ) to die within 10 minutes of her introduction .
I think it was filmed through a layer of mud	I watched Battle of the Amazons only a few hours ago and I'm already having problems remembering many of the particulars about the movie . It wasn't necessarily as bad as some of the other movies I watch , just unmemorable . You'd think a movie about a band of Amazon warriors that raids a town to kidnap young men for sex slaves would standout more than that . But that's apparently not the case . The movie follows the same plot line we've all seen any number of times . The Amazons raid a small village . Those left in the village fear the Amazons will be back . The villagers hire a band of outlaws to train them to fight . Of course it all leads to a climatic brawl where the villagers come out on top and , in the end , the outlaws redeem themselves and decide to stay on . Can anyone tell me where they've seen this before ? Magnificent Seven maybe ? How about Seven Samurai ? As I indicated , it's been done to death . Battle of the Amazons is a dreary looking affair . It's almost as if the director decided to film the movie through a layer of mud . The acting is generally abysmal . The lone exception is Lucretia Love ( Is that a cool name or what ? ) who I've begun to notice recently in a few movies . By the way , I got a kick out of the fact that Love's character , Eraglia , was the only Amazon that brought back a female when they raided the village . The final fight scene is pretty much a letdown . I also found it humorous that the Amazons don masks for their climatic battle . This was done so that the females could be replaced by men in wigs . Did they think no one would notice that the shapely Amazons suddenly turned into beefy men ? One highlight from Battle of the Amazons for me was the score . Although it would have been more at home in a Spaghetti Western , the music was quite nice .
Cookie-cutter 70s disaster film-making	Here's a an idea ? let's round-up a bunch of Hollywood has-beens , second rate TV actors , and a bunch of no-names and put them all on board a cross Atlantic flight . And let's add a crazed mechanic with a grudge . Oh , and how about adding a deadly virus that fills the plane ? You've got the recipe for a 1970s TV movie-of-the-week ! How many of these doomed airplane movies did they make ? If you believed what you saw at the movies and on television , planes were dropping out of the skies like flies in the 70s . These kinds of movies were all the rage and SST : Death Flight was meant to grab onto the disaster-cycle coattails . I'll give the movie credit , though ? it's actually not much worse than most of the rest of its ilk . The acting is what you would expect from the likes of Lorne Greene , Tina Louise , and Bert Convy . The manufactured tension comes across 30 years later as more humorous than anything else . The characters are cardboard cutouts with overly dramatized problems that can miraculously be solved in an hour or so . The one thing SST : Death Flight has going for it is a slightly unusual twist at the end where the characters the choice of life or death . Other than that , it's cookie-cutter 70s disaster film-making at it's best ( or worst , depending on how you look at this stuff . )
Don't judge the series by this episode	While Dr . Quest is busy doing some underwater research , Jonny and Hadji ( and Bandit ) take the opportunity get in some swimming and general relaxation . On his way back to the boat , Jonny discovers an old gold doubloon on the ocean's floor . His discovery , however , is noted by a band of pirates looking for the same treasure Jonny stumbled on . To what lengths will this band of criminals go to get Jonny's secret ? Skull and Double Crossbones is what I would call a very weak episode of Jonny Quest . I've got several issues with it . First , there's way too much padding . While every episode of Jonny Quest has a certain amount of " down time " , Skull and Double Crossbones takes it to the extreme . Half the episode is made up of Jonny and Hadji swimming , Dr . Quest examining ridiculously large fish , and Bandit's comic relief . That brings me to my second problem ? Bandit . That crazy dog has always been my biggest problem with the series , but here he's more annoying than usual . Swimming into a fish's mouth , riding a dolphin , or going for help ? it takes out any drama that the episode might have had going for it . Finally , the bad guys in Skull and Double Crossbones don't really do much for me . Other than being overt stereotypes , their not overly memorable . End the end , a is about the best I can do for this one .
Not what I was hoping for	My Name is Modesty is a low-budget film that tells the story of the origins of Modesty Blaise . It's not that the movie is terrible , it's just not what I was expecting or hoping for . While I've been aware of the Modesty Blaise character for years , I'm not overly familiar with the comic strips or the graphic novels , so I'm coming into this movie as something as an outsider . That may be part of the reason for my disappointment . I was expecting more action and more comedy . The film is dialogue driven . I suppose I was looking for something with a little more camp value . As it is , My Name is Modesty is a deathly serious film . There are very few , if any , " light " moments . The acting , at least from Alexandra Staden , is acceptable but nothing outstanding . As others have commented , she does appear a little too frail to be completely believable in the title role . What action scenes there are in My Name is Modesty are one of the films weakest points . I never bought into the notion that this woman could handle a band of trained killers . I really hope Quentin Tarantino goes ahead and makes the rumored a big budget film based on the Modesty Blaise character . I'm convinced the concept has a lot of potential and I would very much look forward to it .
Did I see this move ?	- I had planned to write something explaining what I didn't like about this movie , but this is going to be more difficult than I thought . Honestly , I can't remember much about it . I watched it just three days ago and it's made almost no impression on me . That's usually the sign of a real stinker . About the only thing I remember was being incredibly bored by most of it . The novelty of having a Humphrey Bogart look-a-like as the detective wore off real quick . It would be different if he could act , but he's a one-note entertainer . The kill scenes were amateurishly handled and there was no suspense leading up to them . If you can't spot the killer five minutes into the movie , you need to see more Euro horror . The casting is a dead giveaway to the killer's identity .
It's like a bad British version of The Fly	Professor Paul Steiner is doing research in matter transference . He has developed a machine that he can use to make an object like a wrist watch or rodent disappear , only to have that object re-materialize in a different location . But there are those at his research facility that do not like or approve of his experiments and will do whatever it takes to see that he doesn't succeed . After a failed demonstration that might have saved his funding , Professor Steiner decides to test his machine on himself . As expected , things go horribly wrong and he is transformed into a heavily scared madman whose mere touch will kill . In hindsight , maybe it wasn't such a good idea to re-watch The Projected Man in the same week I watched The Fly , Return of the Fly , and Curse of the Fly . There seems to be only so many movies about matter transference and the potentially horrendous effects it can have on the human body that one person should be made to endure in a three or four day period . I'm not sure what those responsible for the movie list as their source material for The Projected Man , but much of it is so similar to the Fly movies that it cannot be mere coincidence . However , The Projected Man isn't even nearly as good as the worst of the Fly trilogy . Besides being terribly unoriginal , The Projected Man has several other problems that really hurt the enjoyment of the movie . A big issue I have is with Bryant Haliday in the lead . He's such a horse's ass that , not only do I not care about his suffering , I actually root for it . Supporting cast members Mary Peach and Ronald Allen are almost as bad . They're so bland and dull they hardly matter . In fact , there's very little to get excited about while watching The Projected Man . The soundtrack ? not very memorable . The " look " ? I would describe much of it as " muddy " . The plot ? predictable . The action ? there isn't any . Overall , this is one to avoid . Fortunately , I watched The Projected Man via a copy of the Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode . Funny stuff ! While not an absolute , very often , the poorer the movie ? the better the MST3K riffs . The guys hit almost all of their marks with The Projected Man . I'll give it a very enthusiastic on my MST3K rating scale .
A waste of some perfectly good cleavage	There's really not a lot to say about Las Vegas Lady . It's harmless enough , but it is little more than a dull heist film from the 70s . The movie is neither as clever nor as sexy as it strives to be . The plot is a retread of the tired old casino robbery storyline that's been done to death . Except in the case of Las Vegas Lady , I think the robbery plot was designed by a 3 year-old . The plan involves three women ? one to unnecessarily and in plain view scale the outside of the Circus Cicus building , one to pose as a waitress only to blow her cover at the first opportunity , and one to stand around exposing her cleavage . That's pretty much it . Intricate , huh ? Other than Stella Stevens and her aforementioned breasts , the other women involved in the plot aren't particularly memorable . Las Vegas Lady co-stars Stuart Whitman . When not pawing Stevens , his involvement in the movie is highlighted by one of the most idiotic gun fights ever put on film . I really wanted to like this movie . It does have that 70s feel to it that I always enjoy and some nice shots of Las Vegas circa 1975 . But the movie itself is too dull to rate any higher than a ? and that's probably overstating it . In the end , Las Vegas Lady is a waste of some perfectly good cleavage .
Pam Grier Lite	Sheba Shayne ( Pam Grier ) receives a telegram informing her that her father may be in trouble . Sheba , a private investigator and former cop , goes to her father's aid . But someone will stop at nothing to run her father out of business . An attempt to show their muscle goes awry and Sheba's father is gunned down in cold blood . These guys have messed with the wrong woman . If I had to describe Sheba Baby , the best I can come up with is Pam Grier Lite with some really bad acting . For a Pam Grier film , Sheba Baby is incredibly tame . It's nowhere near as violent as some of her earlier films . Gone are the over-the-top images of Pam placing a small revolver or razor blades in her afro . Pilot ( D'Urville Martin ) and his crew can't hold a candle to some of the real villains Pam faced in her previous movies . It's strictly by-the-numbers and almost has a made-for-TV feel . As for the bad acting , the baddies that Pam faces off with are as unnatural sounding in their delivery as I've seen . As a result , characters like Pilot don't come across as threatening as they should or need to for the movie to work . That's not to say there aren't moments or elements in Sheba Baby that I didn't enjoy ( Pam in a wetsuit and Pam brandishing a spear gun ) , it's just that when compared with Pam's other films like Coffy , Foxy Brown , and even Friday Foster that the movie fails . One final observation - maybe I'm just more sensitive to these things post - , but I don't remember a time , even in the security lax 70s , when you could take a suitcase full of guns on an airplane . When Sheba flies to her father's aid , she's got an arsenal packed in her luggage !
Could have used a little more variety	- After a meteor made up of a material knows as atmosphereum crashes into a wooded area , several different people go searching for it . The first is a scientist and his wife who hope that the atmosphereum might be of benefit to all humankind . The second is a " mad " scientist and his man-made girlfriend who hope to use the meteor to bring the Skeleton of Cadavra to life . The third group is a couple of aliens who need the atmosphereum to use as fuel on their spaceship . What none of the three groups is aware of , however , is that the monster the aliens are carrying on their ship has escaped . - The Lost Skeleton of Cadavra is a send-up of all of those cheesy 50s sci-fi movies that some of us grew up watching . The movie is played for laughs and nothing is taken seriously . Much of the humor is very funny . Take a discussion between the scientist and his wife . The wife asks her husband why they are looking for the meteor . His response : " Betty , you know what this meteor could mean to science . It could mean actual advances in the field of science . " Don't forget , he's a scientist . It's a bit like having a built-in MST3K soundtrack . - But after a while , the humor starts to get old . It's like a one note tune and doesn't really have much life . Once you've heard the jokes , you don't need them repeated over and over . - Still , the movie is lighthearted enough to be at least somewhat enjoyable . And , if you're a fan of 50s sci-fi , I'm sure you'll find something to entertain .
" Whoever did this . . . they're as good as dead . "	Back when A Force of One was originally released , I viewed Chuck Norris ' movies as boring , brainless , and cheap . In the years since , I've changed that original assessment and can see them for what they really are . Now I look at these early Chuck Norris ' movies as fun , brainless , and cheap . The plot is incredibly simple and shows a total lack of creativity . When two cops are killed by someone using Martial Arts , they seek out the one man who might be able to help them ? the local karate champion , Matt Logan ( Norris ) . The cops quickly persuade Matt to help them , but when Matt's son turns up dead , he goes from helping to an active participant . Instead of writing a regular review or pointing out strengths and weaknesses in the movie , I'll just list a few random thoughts I had while watching :  It's not that the cops are skeptical about how karate can help them , a few act like they can't even pronounce the word .  The needle marks in that girl's arm makes it look like she been using a turkey-baster to shoot-up with .  You would think that after one set of cops is killed that the superior officer would do a better job of keeping track of where and what his men are working on .  Wow , a ninja in the stockroom ! You just don't see enough of stuff like that in real life .  If you couldn't guess that Matt's son was going to get into serious trouble when he started his own investigating , you haven't seen enough bad action movies .  The identities of the bad guys are so obvious it's embarrassing .  Why is the police captain wearing a Matt Logan t-shirt under his bath robe ? It may be bad , but there are still several enjoyable moments . One of my favorites is the most obvious ? watching Chuck Norris square off against Bill ' Superfoot " Wallace . Two legends of the Martial Arts in a fight to the death ? good stuff . It almost makes the whole movie worthwhile .
It pains me to say that I'm not a fan of this installment in the Chan series	When I was little , my brother and I would stay up late at night any time Charlie Chan was on the midnight movie schedule on one of the local television stations . So I've been a fan for 35 years . And even though there are a few moments I enjoy , The Scarlet Clue has always been among my least favorite of the Chan series . Far too much time is spent on Number 3 Son and Birmingham Brown and not enough is spent on Charlie interviewing suspects and gathering clues . What clues Chan does find are so obvious that any detective should have been able to piece the mystery together . The script gives the killer too much leeway in the rigging of intricate electric devices used for murder . Surely someone would have noticed a trap door being installed in the elevator . And the whole Chan working for the government against the Nazis in WWII is not my cup of tea . Give me a big old house full of suspicious looking suspects , each with a motive for murder . To each his own though . I'm sure that my list of favorite Chan films would include some that fans of The Scarlet Clue would consider among the worst .
Too bad the first hour is so dull	The plot in The Octagon hardly matters . Trying to follow the nuances of the story is enough to give you a headache . The plot deals with a lost brother , ninja training , a woman who has something to do with a group of terrorists , and some other hokum . It makes little sense . But that's not why people watch movies like The Octagon . The main purpose of the movie is to see Chuck Norris fight a bunch of ninjas . I recently revisited Norris ' A Force of One . Chuck's acting improved dramatically between the time he made that movie and the time he made The Octagon . He still had that unnatural style of delivery , but there was improvement there nonetheless . The big problem with The Octagon , though , isn't the acting ? it's the complete lack of anything interesting . The first hour or so is , in a word , boring . Nothing much happens . Chuck spends most of the time , like the audience , just trying to figure out what's going on . I don't think he was any more successful than I was .
Anyone feel like going to Red Lobster	- Aliens land on Earth to determine whether or not the planet is suitable for raising their Gargons ( a creature raised by the aliens for consumption ) . It seems that these Gargons are quite ferocious and as big as a house when fully grown . Therefore , they require their own planet . But releasing the Gargons on Earth will wipe out all of humanity . One alien , Derek ( David Love ) , has second thoughts about killing the inhabitants of Earth . He leaves the group to warn the citizens of Earth . What he doesn't know , however , is that one of the other aliens has been sent to stop him . - While I've seen worse , Teenagers from Outer Space is really not a very good movie . Most of the acting is terrible and the dialogue is even worse . The " teenagers " mentioned in the title appear to be mid-20s to early-30s in age . The flying saucer used by the aliens is about ten feet in diameter , yet can carry 6 or 7 human sized aliens . The Gargons are really just lobsters . The full-grown Gargon is a shadow of a lobster projected onto the film to make it look huge . Much of the movie is laughable at best . - But , Teenagers from Outer Space is not as bad as it could have been . Underneath the cheese is a nice little story just aching to get out . The two leads ( David Love and Dawn Bender ) do their best . There is a real chemistry between the two that comes through even the most hokey of scenes . Although they might have lacked real talent , they appeared to be trying . So many of these 50s sci-fi films have actors that just appear to be going through the motions . - The aliens use some sort of hand-held death ray weapon . And , for this kind of movie , the results are rather gruesome . In a lot of these movies , when someone is shot with a ray gun , they either fall down without a scratch to be seen or just disappear . Not here . When the human ( and canine ) victims are hit with these ray guns , all tissue disappears leaving only a ( obviously plastic ) skeleton . It's not a very pleasant way to go . - I watched the MST3K version of the movie . As usual , there were a few good laughs to be had . But this is one movie that I'm going to try on its own . I think it deserves to be judged that way .
Interesting but Flawed	- When the local sheriff is killed , his wife takes over until and is determined to clean-up the town . Not everyone in town , however , is happy with what she's doing . When the sheriff orders a curfew in town , the local saloon owner ( also a woman ) hires a killer to take care of the sheriff . There's no way the saloon owner could know that the sheriff and the killer would fall in love . - Gunslinger is an example of what happens when you have a fairly interesting concept and combine it with poor execution . There's a good movie here somewhere trying to get out . In more capable hands or with a larger budget , Gunslinger might have been an entertaining look at the role of women in the Old West . As it is , Gunslinger is a sloppy mess of a movie . - There are just so many things wrong with the movie : a supporting cast with no acting ability , stilted and unnatural dialogue , and sets that look like sets . But the biggest offender is the editing . I was amazed at how many times a scene would begin with the actors ( and horses for that matter ) obviously waiting for Corman to yell " Action " . The best is the scene of two riders on horseback just standing beside a building . All of a sudden , they take off and come racing around the corner like they had been riding hard for several miles . Or , take the example of people who can seemingly transport themselves across town . We see a man enter a building and a second later emerge across town to mount his horse . - It's not as if Corman didn't have a few decent actors to work with . While none were great stars , Beverly Garland , John Ireland , and Allison Hayes were all capable of turning in a good performance . But , in Gunslinger , they're not given much to work with . - I have now seen both the MST3K and non-MST3K versions of the movie . I would strongly recommend going the MST3K route .
Time has not been kind to this movie	- There was a time when I thought that The Brood was one of the more intelligent horror movies I had seen . I recently re-watched the movie for the first time in a couple of decades and I now have trouble seeing it in the same light . I'm no expert in psychology , but all the psycho-mumbo-jumbo sounds like a big bunch of hooey . Pyshcoplasmics ? Please ! The word is thrown around as if everyone knows what it's all about - never mind that it's all made up . And the whole concept that emotions can create something powerful enough to kill just doesn't cut it for me in The Brood . Again , I say Please ! It's all an excuse to build to the one disturbing scene in the third act . ( I'll admit that this scene does present an image that is all but impossible to erase from your memory . ) - The acting in The Brood doesn't do much for me either . I hate to pick on a little girl , but the one in this movie is awful . Oliver Reed gives one of his worst performances that I've seen . Part of the problem with Reed in The Brood is that he is terribly miscast . I never once bought his psychiatrist routine . And don't get me started on Samantha Eggar . She's totally unbelievable as far as I'm concerned . - The supposed scares are anything but . While there are some decent jump scares the first time we meet the midget killers , it soon becomes apparent that this is the only way to make them seem frightening at all . On their own , the little people simply are not threatening . Notice how many of these things it takes to effectively take down a full-grown man without the advantage of surprise . I got the impression that had Reed or another actor moved too quickly or forcefully , the tiny terrors would have been sent flying . - So why haven't I rated The Brood any lower ? While there are a few moments throughout that held my interest , the one extremely disturbing I eluded to earlier is so well done and so effective that it's worth a point or two on its own .
No Originality	- There is a curse affecting all who come into contact with it . It's spread like a horrible disease that only requires contact with an affected person . If you have the curse , you can expect to die a terrible , horrific death . The problem is that you may not know you've been cursed until it's too late and you see the black figure coming to get you . - If you are a fan of horror and the very brief description sounds familiar , don't be surprised . Ju-rei exhibits very little in the way of originality . It's the best parts of Ju-on or The Grudge repeated over and over . The ghosts look the same , sound the same , move the same , and have the same motivations . Furthermore , within the movie there is also little originality . The movie is divided into ten chapters . Once you've seen two or three of the chapters , you can pretty well guess what's going to happen next . One chapter is almost the same as the next chapter . There nothing much to make one chapter distinguishable from the others . While I found the first couple of chapters fairly frightening , the repetitive nature of the movie really hurts any scares in the later chapters . - The story is told backwards from chapter 10 to chapter 1 . At first this seemed to be an interesting , unique way of telling a story . Trying to figure out who was who and how they came into contact with the curse was part of the fun of playing along . But , after a few chapters , it really didn't seem to matter much . Again , the lack of originality really hurt the movie . - Another problem I had with the movie was the beginning and ending . Or , to put it in a better way , the lack of a beginning and the lack of an ending . The movie presents no resolution to the events in the movie . It just ends . Likewise , the movie does not present a clear starting point . It's as if the curse has always been there and we are just viewing part of it's progress . I felt very unsatisfied .
See Barbeau Run	In a secret research facility in the middle of the swamp , Dr . Alex Holland is working on an experiment to combine plant and animal DNA . Alice Cable ( Adrienne Barbeau ) has been sent by the government to help with security . But when the evil Dr . Arcane's men storm to lab trying to get hold of Dr . Holland's work , the results are explosive , literally . Through a chemical reaction , Dr . Holland is transformed into the Swamp Thing . Now , Cable , with the help of the Swamp Thing , must keep the formula out of Dr . Arcane's hands . I don't know why I insist on re-watching this movie every few years . It's not going to get any better . In fact , I enjoy it less and less with each successive viewing . Once you've seen the laughable creature design , once you've seen Barbeau being captured , once you've seen Dr . Arcane's transformation , once you've seen Barbeau run through the swamp in a wet t-shirt , and once you've seen the final showdown ( which happens to be one of the most ridiculous things ever caught on film ) , there's really no reason to watch it again . One viewing should be enough for any masochist . The biggest problem with Swamp Thing is the plot ? or should I say the lack of a plot . The whole " keep the formula from Dr . Arcane " idea is merely window dressing for what I see as the main theme running through the movie ? the rescue of Barbeau . At least 90 % of the movie's runtime is devoted to the Swamp Thing rescuing Barbeau from Arcane's men . And Barbeau's rescue is repeated over and over and over ? . It's a bit like the bad , humid version of Groundhog Day . So , why don't I rate it lower ? There are a few set pieces that really work . The first 15 minutes or so ( the period before Barbeau needs to be rescued ) is nice . Also , the movie is beautifully shot . You can compare it with another of Craven's films , think of The Hills Have Eyes ? only in reverse . Where that movie was shot in such a way that you could almost feel the dry , hot California desert , with Swamp Thing , you can all but feel the humid , dank swamp .
The changes to the storyline really bother me	Baron Frankenstein is up to his old tricks . He is still in the business of buying corpses to do his research . But without the means to afford a proper laboratory , Frankenstein has set up shop in a cabin . When the locals learn of experiments , Frankenstein is forced to flee . Accompanied by his assistant , Frankenstein heads back to his abandoned home to collect some valuables to sell to raise the money he needs to continue his work . Shortly after arriving , he discovers that his first creation is still alive . With a little work , Frankenstein is sure he can correct his previous mistakes . Can he evade the locals and be successful this time ? The Evil of Frankenstein is easily my least favorite of Hammer's series ( granted , I haven't seen The Horror of Frankenstein ) . While there are moments and various set-pieces that I enjoy and Cushing is as good as ever , overall it's just not that good . Why all the changes ? The events in The Evil of Frankenstein rewrite the entire history of the series . Everything that Hammer had done previously in its Frankenstein series is wiped away with one flashback sequence . And why change the Baron Frankenstein character ? In the previous movies , Frankenstein was an evil genius , but he was always in control . His violent and vocal outburst in the caf scene is totally out of character . Also , he is no longer as cold and heartless as in the earlier movies . Instead , he comes across as sympathetic towards those around him and actually seems appalled to learn his creature has harmed his enemies . I've read comparisons between the monster makeup in The Evil of Frankenstein and Universal's classic monster . While there are similarities , comparing the two is tantamount to blasphemy . The monster in The Evil of Frankenstein is poor stepchild to the monster played by Karloff . It looks cheap . There are certain camera angles where the monster's head looks like a piata ready to spill its candy . As for what worked for me , there are a couple of moments worth mentioning . The opening scenes of the body snatcher skulking through the twisted forest are especially creepy . It's a very effective opening . Another very enjoyable , but all too brief , scene occurs when Frankenstein raises the table holding his monster . The camera is attached to and moves with the table . It's one of the very few moments in the movie where Director Freddie Francis can be praised for being creative .
" I beg of you a thousand pardons , but these vegetable marrows , they have driven me to the edges of barbarity ! "	In most instances , I like to begin one of these " reviews " ( I put that word in parentheses because I'm not sure that what I'm doing here would actually constitute a " review " ) with a plot summary . But , this being Agatha Christie and all , I would hate to give away even the most insignificant of clues . So I'll be very glib and just say that there's a murder , lots of suspects , and Hercule Poirot ( I told you I was being glib ) . I was prepared to write a rather lengthy review detailing all of my many problems with The Murder of Roger Ackroyd , but after reading what others have already written on IMDb , I'm not sure I see much of a reason . The issues I have with the film have been spelled-out more eloquently than I could ever hope . Like many other Agatha Christie fans , I've always thought of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd as one of her better efforts . It's a clever mystery told in an unusual style ( at least unusual for Christie ) . As other reviewers have noted , gone is much of the mystery that makes the book so wonderful . Instead , the movie adds on a quite tacky finale that's completely out of character with the source material . I understand that creative license must be taken to bring these novels to television , but this time it's just too much . I could , and probably should , have rated The Murder of Roger Ackroyd lower , but the acting , sets , locations , etc . are too enjoyable to rate it a total disaster . Maybe someday someone will tackle The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and gets it right .
So bad it's not so bad	- The plot gets a bit muddled , but I'll give it a go . A mad scientist is trying to create a superior race . To do this , he has his henchmen kidnap and shrink his victims to the size of a Barbie doll . The " dolls " are then transported to his research facility for . . . I'm not sure what . Anyway , the scientists picks the wrong woman when he kidnaps the girlfriend of a space commander . He and his buddies go looking for the mad doctor's lair . - Antonio Margheriti made several of films I really enjoy - The Virgin of Nuremberg and Castle of Blood immediately come to mind . I cannot , however , include Wild , Wild Planet on the list of my favorite Margheriti films . If I had any inkling of an idea why the mad doctor was kidnapping and shrinking people then I might have enjoyed it more . I'm not asking for the movie to come out and spoon-feed me all of the plot points , just have a plot that's coherent . - The mad doctor's henchmen are about as un-threatening as a basket of puppies . The henchmen work in pairs - one is a beautiful woman with a beehive hairdo while the other is a bald , black trench coat wearing guy . The henchmen look more like 60s European models than evil kidnappers . - The sets are obviously made of miniatures . A couple of the scenes are unintentionally hilarious . The first involves a small flying craft that maneuvers around the city . Ed Wood's hubcap on a string doesn't look to bad in comparison . The second is a shot of a futuristic land vehicle that runs of the road and catches fire . The tiny fire looks like someone lit a couple of matches . It's really bizarre to see .
" I've got beer and . . . vodka . "	- Over the years I've learned that anytime Joe Don Baker is the " star " of a movie , you know you're in trouble . I don't know what the people behind Mitchell were thinking , but Joe Don Baker cannot carry a movie . He's fine as a goofy sidekick to provide some comic relief , but he just looks silly trying to play an action star . - The plot really doesn't matter . The highlight of the movie is watching Baker run , drink beer , and recite goofy dialog . One of the weirdest moments in the movie is a scene with Baker and a little boy on a skateboard . The exchange they have is utterly ridiculous and feels like it belongs in another movie . - I'm not sure what Linda Evans , Martin Balsam , and John Saxon thought Mitchell would do for their careers , but it's certainly a low point . Fortunately for Saxon , he disappears about half way through and doesn't make it to the film's " dramatic " conclusion . I've always looked at Balsam as a fairly accomplished actor . He should have known better . As for Evans , her love scenes with Baker are enough to induce nausea . Hoyt Axton musical ode to Mitchell only adds to the ridiculous nature of the this scene . - I've seen Mitchell both with and without the MST3K commentary . The preferred viewing is with the commentary . I'm no MST3K expert , but this is my favorite episode that I've seen . Much of it is truly laugh-out-loud funny .
" Attention all cars , attention all cars "	Horribly disfigured in a lab accident , Hal Moffat ( Rondo Hatton ) seeks revenge against all those he blames for his condition . The police seem to be unable to put a stop to the killer they've dubbed the " Creeper " . During one of his escapes from the police , the Creeper hides out in an apartment occupied by a blind woman . The pair strike up an unlikely relationship that lasts until the woman discovers her new friend's true identity . Now her life is in danger ! It's difficult to discuss The Brute Man without discussing Rondo Hatton , but that's exactly what I want to do for a moment . The biggest problem with the movie is that it's pretty much a bore . Scene after scene of watching the Creeper . . . uhh . . . creep ( for the lack of a better word ) does not make for the most exciting of movie experiences . He's too slow ? too slow to hold my interest . And it doesn't help matters that the Creeper's relationship with the blind woman is so predictable . From the moment the pair met , I was waiting for the woman to say that there was a surgery that might cure her , but it cost too much . And I just knew the Creeper was going to try to help her out by killing someone to get the money she needed . No surprises here . As for Rondo , I wish I knew more about him . He seems to have been a tragic , yet interesting fellow . In the few movies I've seen him in , he was never asked to do much . His acromegaly seems to be all that the studios were interested in . I doubt it , but I sincerely hope that he was able to exploit the movie studios just as they were exploiting him . And even though Rondo wasn't the world's greatest actor , there's something oddly compelling about his performance and The Brute Man in general . The Creeper is such a tragic character that it's difficult to fear him when you have such compassion for him and his predicament . While I cannot condone his actions , I certainly understand what drove him to commit his crimes . I've just got to give the movie an extra point based on Rondo . The Brute Man was featured in Episode # 702 of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . Overall , it's not particularly good . Too often , the guys resort to making fun of Rondo's medical condition ? not a very humorous topic . There are a few moments that do work , but overall , I'm disappointed . This episode of MST3K gets a on my rating scale .
This stretches believability to the breaking point .	The plot to House of 9 is uncomplicated and straightforward . Nine complete strangers are abducted and taken to a house . Their kidnapper wants this varied group to play a game for his amusement . Think of it as a life-or-death game of reality television . The last person alive wins $5 million dollars . There appears to be a recent trend with this kind of horror / thriller movie that seem to have gotten a big boost form the movie Saw . House of 9 shares some common themes with Saw of being trapped against your will and at the mercy of an unknown , unseen madman , but nowhere near as good or interesting ( not that Saw was very good itself ) . The biggest problem with House of 9 is the utter predictability of the whole situation . For example , how could anyone not spot the game's " winner " five minutes into the movie ? Where's the suspense in that ? The acting is another weak aspect of House of 9 . While there were one or two decent performances ( Morven Christie being the highlight for me ) , most of the cast seems to be in over their heads . The bad acting extends to the one " name " in the film , Dennis Hopper . His " accent on ? accent off " priest is very convincing . I've never been one to kneel before the Dennis Hopper altar and I'm not about to start after having seen House of 9 . I don't mean to imply that it's all bad . There are a few moments and set-pieces throughout the film that I actually enjoyed . But whatever enjoyment I derived from these moments was off-set completely by the twist in the finale of House of 9 and the beyond ridiculous ending . It stretches believability to the breaking point .
If you want to see a good giallo , find another movie	- After you've seen giallo after giallo , you begin to think you've seen it all as far as a convoluted plot goes . But then you stumble upon Autopsy . It's got to be the King of the Bizarre Plot . I'm not going to even attempt to go into it in detail because it's so twisted and things come out of left field that I could never do it justice . Just try to enjoy it for what it is . - But the plot isn't where the majority of my problems with Autopsy lie . Instead , I have a real problem with the cast - specifically Mimsy Farmer as the female lead . Unlike Suzy Kendall in Torso or Edwige Fenech in All the Colors of the Dark , Mimsy Farmer and her character are not sympathetic figures . In order for a giallo to work and work well , the viewer must care about the characters who are in danger . I felt nothing for Mimsy . In fact , I was hoping she would be killed off very early in the movie . - Other things I didn't care for were Mimsy's visions of the morgue patients moving around . It didn't really serve much of a purpose and didn't really go anywhere . Also , the director's decision to show up-close shots of solar flares over and over was totally unnecessary . Again , it didn't really serve much of a purpose and didn't really go anywhere . - There are a lot of good gialli to track down if you're new to the genre . Autopsy , unfortunately , isn't one of them .
" We'll all be murdered in our beds ! "	When Walter Stevens ( Lionel Atwill ) receives a threatening letter from a mysterious killer known as The Gorilla , he calls in a team of detectives to help protect him and his family . Unfortunately for Mr . Stevens , he's hired the Ritz Brothers . The Gorilla does have a few things going for it ? a big , old , dark house ; a terrific thunderstorm ; and a lunatic killer . The cast features the always entertaining Lionel Atwill and Bela Lugosi . They're both good , but I can't help feeling sad that by 1939 Lugosi was already reduced to playing butlers and servants in supporting roles . Ah well , he's still enjoyable . And when The Gorilla focuses on the mystery / horror elements of the plot , it's pretty creepy and good . The problem is that there is far too much lame comedy in the mix . First , Patsy Kelly who plays the maid , could make Una O " Connor look quiet and demure in comparison . She's loud and annoying . Second , and more annoying than Kelly ever dreamed of , are the Ritz Brothers . These guys are about as funny as fingernails on a chalkboard . I can't believe anyone ever found them entertaining . They're broad , over-reacting style of comedy plays on my nerves real fast . They completely destroy whatever atmosphere The Gorilla might have had going for it .
A movie you can enjoy with a good cup of coffee .	- A local trapper claims he saw something odd in the swamp . Of course no one puts much stock in his claims , so nothing is done . But as the bodies start piling up , the local officials realize that something strange is going on . They can no longer deny the fact that monsters live in the local waters . One of the locals wants to bomb the swamp and force the creatures to the surface . But the game warden is sworn to protect all life in the swamp and must be convinced ( he's gotta see the monsters for himself ) before he will allow such a dramatic step to be taken . - After you've seen as many of these quick , cheap , sci-fi / horror movies from the 50s and 60s as I have , you start to run out of adjectives to describe the abysmal acting , dialogue , and production values . I have now reached that point . The lack of what most people consider qualities of a good movie are as readily apparent here as any other movies of this type . So , I'm not going to even try to discuss these things . - I haven't rated this movie as low as similar movies . This one has a quality about it that I found enjoyable . It could be that the characters in Attack of the Giant Leeches are somewhat likable . It could be that the story is presented in a more clever manner . Or , it could be that the movie is so bad that I reveled in the dreg . Whatever , unlike some of its brethren , Attack of the Giant Leeches is a movie I could see myself watching again in the future .
Jane Wyatt ? Who made that decision ?	Maybe I'm missing something because I've read more positive things about The Man Who Cheated Himself than I have read bad reviews - and I just don't get it . I like my noirs to have a little style to them with characters that speak , look , and act like Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep or Gene Tierney in Laura . None of the characters in this movie have that style or presence or whatever you want to call it . Take the lead actor , Lee J . Cobb . His rumpled , rolled-out-of-bed look is about as far from the dashing , smooth-talking noir archetype as you'll find . Or , take Jane Wyatt as the femme fatale as another example . This is one of the worst cases of miscasting I've seen in a while . She's just not convincing in the role . As for the plot , it's tired and lacks any real surprises or anything new for the genre . I could have predicted the outcome of The Man Who Cheated Himself after about five minutes . And that final cat-and-mouse chase scene is plain old dull . Ten to fifteen minutes of nothing happening really ruined any pacing the movie may have had going for it .
This one fails at almost every turn	What an average , ordinary movie . And by average and ordinary , I mean dull . The plot revolves around a traveling show in the old West . The group runs afoul of Indians , sheriffs , and killers as they seek to make their fortunes . Sophia Loren is the star and is in almost every scene , but not even she can save Heller in Pink Tights from achieving nothing more than mediocrity . Anthony Quinn is also top billed , but he is terribly underutilized and looks like he's just going through the motions . The chemistry between the pair is non-existent . The only bright spot in the cast is Eileen Heckart who , as usual , steals every scene in which she appears . Director George Cukor shot Heller in Pink Tights in the most gaudy of color schemes that hardly seems natural give the time period in which the movie takes place . An exploding paint store wouldn't produce this much color . I'm not sure what Cukor was going for , but he failed at almost every turn . In short , this one should be reserved for Cukor or Loren completists only .
One of poorest entries in the series	From IMDb : " Hercule Poirot finds himself trying to solve the mystery of the Cloade family . Rosaleen is the young widow of Gordon Cloade who was killed in a gas explosion in his London home . Rosaleen has inherited her late husband's substantial fortune and she and her brother David Hunter are refusing to share it with other members of Gordon Cloade's family . There have been persistent rumors that Rosaleen's first husband , an intrepid explorer , is still alive and as such would nullify her marriage to Gordon . What Poirot learns however is of a far greater deception that will alter everyone's perception of what they believe to their reality . " Taken at the Flood has to be one of my very least favorite of the entire Poirot series ( I disliked it so much that I didn't even bother to write my own plot synopsis ) . I was never a huge fan of the book , but this adaptation has some real weaknesses and problems that I just can't get past . Chief among them is that it never " feels " like an Agatha Christie story . Who decided to sauce up Christie's work with all the sex and talk of abortion ? I suppose it was done in an attempt to attract the more modern viewer . What about those of us who watch these movies because they aren't filled with the same garbage you can find in every other modern movie ? Beyond the bastardization of Chirsite's novel , the denouement is terribly disappointing . Poirot brings up things about a murder that happened years ago that , not only would Poirot have had no way of knowing , the audience couldn't begin to come up with the solution . Kreskin couldn't have come up with half the things Poirot reveals . And it's not as much fun when you can't play along . I realize that Christie would often spring a surprise or two during one of Poirot's final monologues , but here Poirot offers no proof . Based on the evidence , his accusations seems to be little more than wild speculation .
Little to get excited about	I did something while watching Feast for the Devil that I rarely , if ever , do ? I caught myself nodding off a couple of times . Why ? It's dull . It's uneventful . It's pointless . It's not very good . Instead of Feast for the Devil , a better title might be Feast for the Insomniac . Usually these Euro-Gothic films work for me . I'm a fan . But there's so little to get excited about in Feast for the Devil that it never clicked with me . The story involves a Dr . Tills Nescu who has a bad habit of kidnapping and sacrificing young women . While that may sound like a good set-up for a movie , in all actuality , Dr . Nescu and a variety of unknown people spend most of the movie at parties on his boat . Not very Satanic , huh ? The movie builds to the final scenes of Dr . Nescu performing his rituals to honor Satan . But as it turns out , Dr . Nescu is hardly the big bad servant of the Devil we've been led to believe throughout the movie . Instead , he's more of a servant of his dead mother . What a letdown !
" You're funny , Mr . Miller . Really funny . "	On her way to a rendezvous with her boyfriend , Roxy Miller ( played by 30-something teenager Marilyn Manning ) quite literally runs into a 7 foot tall caveman . Luckily for Roxy , the giant makes a hasty retreat as another car approaches . Roxy shares her story with her boyfriend and her father . They find it tough to swallow , but agree to help Roxy look around in the desert for her mysterious giant . Was she just seeing things or was there really a giant in the desert ? Roxy's father is soon convinced when he's taken prisoner by the giant he nicknames Eegah . But Eegah's a lonely guy and he's got his sights set on Roxy . It seems that since his run-in with her , Eegah's smitten . Can a centuries old caveman and a modern day girl find happiness ? There are any number of reviews of Eegah that can be found on the internet and almost every one of them makes the movie sound like the second coming of Manos . Maybe there's something weird about me , but in a surreal way I found Eegah a compelling and ( as strange as this may be ) a moving look at a lonely soul . As bizarre as it may sound , I actually felt something for the big , misunderstood brute . And in a completely odd way , the ending of the film is as sad a sight as I've seen in a movie in a while ( that probably has more to do with the movie's I've been watching recently than this movies ability to elicit any real emotion ) . As strange as this may sound , much of Eegah actually worked for me . But that's not to say Eegah is a good movie or anything , because it's not . Much of the acting is bad , the dialogue is silly , Arch Hall's singing is nauseating , and the production values are dirt cheap . Besides , any movie that features a cameo from Ray Dennis Steckler can't be that good . As expected , Eegah makes for a very good MST3K episode . Among the highlights are the riffs directed at Arch Hall , Jr . Hall makes a perfect target and the guys take every opportunity to lay it on . Good job ! On my MST3K rating scale , I give this episode a ? An episode worth seeking out .
These have to be some of the dumbest people ever assembled	The Killer Reserved Nine Seats is the Italian / Giallo take on Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians . A group of people are gathered together and one by one murdered . In this case , nine people find themselves locked inside an large , old theater with a masked killer on the loose . Each person comes under suspicion as each seems to have had some sort of motive for the killings . While some of the bloody mayhem occurs off-screen , the murder scenes are the highlight of the movie . Unfortunately , the rest of The Killer Reserved Nine Seats isn't nearly as good as the murder scenes . There's far too much talk . These people spend an inordinate amount of time discussing things which have no bearing on the film . And these have to be some of the dumbest people ever assembled . One at a time , they seem determined to investigate the dark passageways and poorly lit rooms of the theater , making themselves easy prey for the killer . Searching the theater might seem like a good idea , but how about taking someone with you ? After a while , it just becomes tedious waiting for the next victim to go off alone . The plot also includes some supernatural elements that are out of place for this kind of movie . It just doesn't fit . Finally , the ending is a mess . Maybe it was just the cut of the film I saw , but nothing was made clear in the end . A woman thought to be dead wakes up , realizes she's okay , and walks out of the theater . Uh , whatever ! I'm a Giallo junkie . I've seen the best and the worst that the genre has to offer . I had been looking forward to seeing The Killer Reserves Nine Seats , so it pains me to place this one near the bottom of the heap .
Cushing's worst performance	- I , Monster is Amicus ' take on the Jekyl and Hyde story . I won't go into details on the plot as most everyone is familiar with the story . From a couple different sources I've read that I , Monster may be the most faithful adaptation of Stevenson's book ever put to film . I don't know about that , I've never read the book . The biggest change from the book seems to be the names - instead of Jekyl and Hyde , we have Marlowe and Blake . - I had been looking forward to seeing this movie for a while . Any movie with both Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing is high on my " to see " list . To say that I was disappointed would be an understatement . Usually , no matter how bad the material may be , you can usually count on Lee and Cushing to at least provide some degree of entertainment . Not here . This is the first movie I've ever seen with Cushing that I did not enjoy his performance . He acted as if he knew how bad things were . Much of the movie is an utter bore with everyone just sitting around spouting inane dialogue . I don't mind a slow moving story ( for example , The Mummy ( 1933 ) is one of my favorites ) but this is torture . - In I , Monster , Marlowe is allowed to slowly progress with each injection into a hideous monster . It is a progression into evil . It's a nice touch that I think improves on past versions of the story . But it brings up one of my major complaints about the movie . I do not understand how some of Marlowe's friends failed to realize he was Blake the first time they ran into him . Just ridiculous . The only physical change that Marlowe experienced at first was a grin on his face and messed up hair . - Next time I have a desire to see Lee and Cushing together , I'll pick something like Horror of Dracula or The Curse of Frankenstein .
" You'll never catch a monkey that way . "	In this quickly produced sequel to the iconic King Kong , Carl Denham ( Robert Armstrong ) and company head back to Skull Island in search of treasure . Once there , they run into the expected larger than life monsters . Fortunately for our group of explorers , they also run into Kong's offspring who proves to be more agreeable than his old man . Son of Kong was put together in a hurry and it shows . Willis O " Brien's stop-motion work is not as convincing as it was in King Kong . Creature movements are even more jerky and unnatural than in the original . And the screen time given to O'Brien's creatures has been reduced to a fraction of that in King Kong . Instead , the characters spend the majority of the movie on another island with not much to do other than bore the audience . It's a real shame that more time and care wasn't taken with this sequel . King Kong deserved better than this . Several members of the original cast are back , but neither Robert Armstrong nor Frank Reicher appears to be as interested in the proceedings as they did in the original . Helen Mack is on hand to basically take the Fay Wray role . She's a poor substitute . But the worst part of Son of Kong was the decision to allow baby Kong to mug for the cameras . There are a couple of scenes where the ape looks right at the camera and all but winks at the audience . The effect of these scenes is to completely destroy any suspense and credibility the movie might have had going for it . It just makes the whole movie seem silly .
" I don't want to drink . I want to look at art ! "	I'll skip to normal intro and jump right into this one . It's been awhile since I was this disappointed in a film . Eli Roth had an opportunity to make a classic with Hostel , but as far as I'm concerned , he failed miserably . Before I get to where Roth went wrong , I'll start with what he got right . The scenes of torture at the factory are as grueling and intense as I've seen . These scenes have an incredibly dark tone and feel to them . Many of these moments are difficult to watch . I was squirming in my seat on more than one occasion . These 30 or so minutes are top notch stuff . Unfortunately , there's another hour of this movie that is so poorly written with so many moments that I can only describe as dumb that I did not enjoy Hostel as a whole . Let's start with the three main characters traveling around Europe looking for sex . They're about as shallow a group as you'll find . There's nothing presented about any of the three that led me to care in the least whether they lived or died . There was no emotional attachment . It was like watching a sophomoric Spring Break movie set in Europe . And when our hero goes out of his way to describe the young girl he watched die , it was so out of character ( as if he had any character ) that I just knew Roth was beating me in the head to set me up for something yet to come . Or take the whole getaway at the end of the movie . Are we supposed to believe that our hero just happens to pick the one car with the keys in the ignition and a bag of gum and candy on the floor ? Sorry , I'm not buying it . And how convenient that the three people who were responsible for luring our hero and his friend into the factory should step out in front of his getaway car . Again , Roth might be selling , but I'm not buying . Finally , our hero trades the convenient bag of candy to the gang of pint-size street thugs in exchange for their help in stopping the bad guys . Oh boy ! It's one of the dumbest moments I've seen in a movie in a long time . A lot of people will look at a moment like this and see Roth's attempt to inject humor into Hostel . I'm sorry , but you can't have it both ways . Either your movie is a gruesome , gut-wrenching affair or it's a teenybopper film on the same level as Scream . A change from something like the Guinea Pig series to National Lampoon is startling , forced , and poorly handled . You don't have to look very hard to find other problems with Hostel's script . For example , how does our hero manage to kill several people and drag around a girl missing part of her face without getting a noticeable and suspicious amount of blood on the perfectly fitting suit he so conveniently found ? And wasn't it a great coincidence that our hero should happen to wind up on the same train with the " main " killer who so conveniently goes into a deserted bathroom ? There are other examples , but you get the idea . It's insulting and , as I've said repeatedly , dumb . Finally ( I say finally because I could ramble on forever ) , I've got to agree with the critics of Hostel who are upset with Roth's portrayal of the Slovakian people . Yes , bad things can happen anywhere . I'm not saying that Slovakia is exempt from barbarous murder , but Roth would have us believe that most everyone in the town was complicit with what was going on . Apparently we're supposed to believe that a few dollars is all it takes to get a whole town to accept murder as their primary source of income . Wasn't there one decent person in town to speak up about what appears to have been going on for what appears to have been a considerable period of time ? And don't you think the travel agents and guidebooks would steer travelers away from this town after the first couple of people went missing ? As dumb as this movie is , I wonder how dumb Roth thinks his audience is .
The death of the beach movie	- As with most other beach movies , the plot in Catalina Caper is paper thin . The whole thing can be condensed into one sentence : ( from IMDb ) A group of swingin ' teens take time out from having fun in the sun to try to foil a group of crooks searching for a stolen scroll . - Beyond the terrible plot and script , the biggest single problem I have with the movie is the star , Tommy Kirk . He seems like a nice enough fellow and I've seen him give decent performances as a supporting player in some of the earlier beach movies , but he is completely unable to carry Catalina Caper as the lead . It doesn't help that he is surrounded by a group of no names with no talent . - The highlight of the movie has to be the song performed by Little Richard . It's an absolute hoot . He looks so stoned that I don't know how he was able to stand upright . - I watched the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of Catalina Caper . While not the best I've seen from MST3K , there were a few laughs here and there . My favorite bit from the MST3K crew had to be the " burn witch burn " chant during the opening night time bonfire dance scene .
The Stepford Wives deserves more than this	I just love DVDs with these mini-documentaries . The Stepford Life , however , isn't one of the best . There's just not enough interesting information or stories about the making of the movie and / or the people involved . All three of the actresses spend their interview time saying nothing but glowing things about each other . It's like one giant love-fest . They relate nothing of interest about working with one another . The director , Bryan Forbes , spends most of his screen time slamming the writer , William Goldman . He seems bitter about the whole thing . And the producer , Edgar Scherick , adds even less to the proceedings . A movie as good as The Stepford Wives deserves better than this .
A great supporting cast , but a weak movie	To sum up the plot of Jaguar Lives ! in a couple of sentences ? Jaguar is a secret agent with a mission that takes him around the world to locate and bust-up up a large-scale heroin ring . If along the way he's able to find out who killed his former partner , so much the better . Joe Lewis ( 1979 World Karate Champion ) is Jaguar . While his acting may be a bit stiff , his moves certainly aren't . The man knows how to throw a kick . He's joined by one of the most amazing casts for a nothing movie like this that I've ever seen ? Christopher Lee , Donald Pleasence , Barbara Bach , Woody Strode , Joseph Wiserman , John Huston , and Capucine all lend their varied talents to the film . None has very much to do or much screen time , but Pleasence makes the most of his role as a South American dictator . Unfortunately , none of these actors is able to save Jaguar Lives ! from mediocrity . The plot is pretty much a muddled mess , relying on set-pieces featuring fights to move the plot along . The big reveal of the head bad guy at the end of the movie shouldn't surprise anyone who's been paying the slightest bit of attention . And Lewis just doesn't have what it takes to hold the movie together . So , while I'm impressed with the supporting cast and the money spent shooting in exotic locations around the world , Jaguar Lives ! just isn't all that good . With all that being said , I'm a bit shocked to see that Joe Lewis didn't many more movies . Sure , his acting may have been lacking , but people with similar acting ability but with only half of Lewis ' martial arts ability were churning out movies in the 80s .
I had such high hopes for this one	- Jess Franco's A Virgin Among the Living Dead was a real disappointment to me . Based on the plot descriptions I had read on the internet and the recommendations of a few trusted movie friends , I was sure that it would become one of my favorite Franco films . The living dead family are the biggest bunch of " do nothings " I've seen . Other than play the piano , have sex , and stand around talking , they really don't do much of anything . At a minimum , I would have thought they would be creepy , but dressed in their mod 70s outfits , they look like swingers on the make . I've come to expect more of my living dead . - Franco's camera work ( or it could possibly be the editing ) is especially erratic in A Virgin Among the Living Dead . The film presents random flashes of images that have nothing to do with what's taking place on screen . The movie features random shots of various trees , random bushes on the side of the road , a couple of unknown people , an unidentified lake , and an unidentified fisherman . In several scenes , it's obvious that Franco had some extra footage he took from a car window or while walking in a forest that he included in the movie . While some of the other shots are quite nice to look at , they don't overcome the chaotic imagery . - Acting is the strong point in the movie . Even though he has one of the goofiest characters I've seen him play , Howard Vernon gives a very nice performance . Paul Muller , in a small role , is as solid as ever . But the surprise for me came from Christina von Blanc . For a relative unknown , she does a nice job in the title role of the " virgin " .
Where are the police ?	Season 2 of The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries continues to disappoint with the season finale called Campus Terror . In this one , Joe is called by an old flame for help in solving the mystery of three girls who have disappeared from campus . Frank and Joe are on the case before you can say " missing coed " . While it's not the worst of the season , it comes close . The stupidity on display is mind-boggling . For example , three girls have been kidnapped , yet there is still virtually no police presence on campus . On two separate occasions , girls scream for help . And who are the first people on the scene ? If you guessed Frank and Joe Hardy , give yourself a prize . Where are the cops ? Where's the security ? People can still come and go at will . People are still able to enter and leave buildings without notice . And people are still able to hide in the shadows undetected . I realize that this is a fictional television show , but how about allowing a little reality into the situation . I could go on and on , but you get the idea .
Never lives up to its potential	While on an extended vacation in Rome , Shelley North's ( Cyd Charisse ) husband goes missing . The embassy can provide no real assistance , so she turns to an old flame and successful journalist , Dick Sherman ( Hugh O'Brian ) , for help . Shelley's husband seems to have been living something of a double life involving blackmailers , drugs , and international secrets . And someone will stop at nothing to make sure Shelley's husband isn't found . You might think that a plot that includes heroin trafficking , murder , stolen blueprints , kidnapping , and extortion would make for an exciting movie . In the case of Assassination in Rome , you'd be dead wrong . It would be hard to make a more lifeless movie with so much potential . The problem is that for  of the movie , nothing happens . People go to lunch , women wear fabulous clothes , and everyone talks . But all the action is left off-screen and we're left with pointless melodrama . And then there's that sickening love-themed soundtrack that accompanies most of the movie . You can bet that anytime Cyd Charisse and Hugh O'Brian are on screen together , you're going to hear that same old schmaltzy score . Ugh ! I'll give O'Brian some credit ? at least he appears to be trying to make this stinker more palatable . Unfortunately , he doesn't get any help from Charisse who seems terribly out of sorts as if disinterest has taken over her whole body . Don't misunderstand , Assassination in Rome is far from being terrible . In fact , many of the set pieces work quite well . The final  of the movie does provide a few chills and a suspenseful moment or two . And the shots of the Rome and Venice locations , circa 1965 , are a real treat . My favorite had to be a scene that included the outside entrance to Cinecitt studios .
It should have been called " How to Make a Movie with an Incoherent Plot "	Lucio Fulci made some real stinkers in his career and Manhattan Baby comes close to being the worst . The problem is the incoherent plot that I'm not even going to attempt to explain . The plot centers around an Egyptian amulet with evil powers . The evil powers manifest themselves in a series of totally unrelated events . In fact , almost every event in Manhattan Baby is completely unrelated to what came before or what is yet to come . Fulci and screenwriter Dardano Sacchetti had some wonderful ideas , but there is nothing holding these ideas together . As a series of standalone set-pieces , Manhattan Baby isn't that bad . But trying to make sense out of a plot that's all over the place can give you quite a headache . It's too bad . The movie gets off to a good start with some nice looking and mysterious Egyptian scenes . But don't let that fool you . Once the movie gets back to New York , things fall apart . As I wrote previously , there are some good set-pieces in Manhattan Baby . Among the highlights ? the tomb exploration , the opening of the children's door by a friend of the mother , and the final bird attack . As I've said before though , a few good set-pieces cannot save a movie .
Based on everything I knew about it , I thought this one was destined to be a winner	Over the years , I've gotten pretty good at spotting movies I know I'm going to enjoy . While many of these don't turn out to be in my Top 10 or anything , I generally find these movies enjoyable at a minimum . That's not the case with At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul . Given its cult following , subject matter , and recommendations from trusted individuals , I thought this one was destined to be a winner . I couldn't have been more wrong . At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul is the first of the Brazilian Coffin Joe films . Jose Mojica Marins is Z do Caixo , the mortician in a small town he holds sway over through physical and psychological threats . He's not above committing murder to get his way . The film has a lot of surreal imagery going for it that is interesting to look at . It's too bad that it's all for naught as the film is so deadly dull . All the interesting set decoration and eye candy in the world can't save it . Z makes an interesting character , but he hardly looks like the big tough guy , bullying around everyone in town . He's more like a skinny little kid playing dress-up with a cape and top hat who throws tempter tantrums when he doesn't get what he wants . I still don't understand why a couple of the husky Brazilian townsfolk didn't get together and beat the snot out of Z . Finally , there's the ending . After and hour and some odd minutes of At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul , I hoped my experience could be salvaged by a strong finale . Again , I was disappointed . That has to be one of the more unsatisfying endings I've seen recently . Despite what I've written , I haven't given up on Coffin Joe just yet . I still plan to give This Night I Will Possess Your Corpse a chance . I only hope its better .
What a mistake !	Sadly , the third movie in the X-Men series doesn't come close to living up to either its potential or the precedent established by the first two movies . But before I get to that , I'll cover a couple aspects of the film that really worked for me . First , the action sequences are generally well done . As individual set pieces , the action scenes work . Second , when I first heard that Kelsey Grammar was brought on board to play the Beast in X-Men : The Last Stand , I was a little apprehensive . I mean the thought of Frasier Crane doesn't exactly conjure images of an action hero . After seeing the film , I cannot imagine anyone else in the role . Grammar is the center of attention in every scene in which he appears ? and it's not just the makeup . On to the problems : I can sum up most of the issues I have with X-Men : The Last Stand in two words ? Brett Ratner . The decision to allow Ratner to direct X-Men : The Last Stand was a total mistake . Ratner seems to think that throwing together action sequences and CGI effects is all you need to make a good movie . Sorry Mr . Ratner , but the first two films were much more than this . The script and direction feel rushed and sloppy with little thought given to what made the series so good to begin with . There is no character development . Mutants are thrown on screen with the sole purpose of showing off special effects ? not in an attempt to create memorable characters . And the characters from the previous two movies are handled poorly . Jean Grey's conversion to the Phoenix isn't explained at all . And she does nothing for most of the movie other than standing around looking like a reject from an army of the undead . Cyclops , a major character from the other movies , is killed off with no fanfare . And his death occurs off-screen ! Why ? Rogue is totally unnecessary . None of her scenes have anything to do with the plot other than adding some unneeded WB style melodrama . Professor Xavier and Mystique ? gone far too quickly . And Wolverine has been reduced to little more than an Arnold Schwarzenegger wannabe spouting one-liners like he's working at the local comedy club . I could go on and on , but you get the idea . In short , it's a disaster .
Where's Hyde ?	What a lovely movie to look at . Wonderful costumes and sets make this movie a real treat to the eye . Some of the best I've seen in a period horror film . The acting is also quite good . It's just too bad that this is all The Son of Dr . Jekyll has to offer . It's easy to see why this film was titled The Son of Dr . Jekyll and not The Son of Mr . Hyde . Other than the opening scene where Hyde ( I'm not entirely sure it was Hyde ) has about five minutes of screen time , we see him for less than 10 seconds in the rest of the film . Very disappointing . Without Hyde , Dr . Jekyll has a tough time carrying a movie by himself . The movie is really more of a crime mystery than a horror regardless of how it is listed on IMDb . The " son " spends the majority of the movie tying to figure out who is framing him as mad killer . While it is a decent enough idea for a movie , the killer's true identity is given away so early that there are few dramatic or tense moments later on .
" You appear with the tedious inevitability of an unloved season . "	Take a look at most of the lists of favorite Bond films found on the internet and you'll usually find Moonraker at or near the bottom . While I don't consider it the worst ( I reserve that distinction for Die Another Day ) , it's not among my favorites either . Most people when writing about Moonraker tend to focus on the ill-advised , Star Wars inspired , laser shootout . As ridiculous as Bond in Space is , it's not my main point of contention with the movie . Instead , I have a real problem with the gag-fest that is Moonraker . It's one lame attempt at humor after another . While humor has always been a part of the series , here it's taken to the extreme . There is no better example of the buffoonery found in Moonraker than the gondola chase scene . ( Bear with me here , this is going to be rather lengthy . ) It gets off to an okay start as Bond's gondola passes another one carrying a coffin . The coffin's lid opens and the man inside throws a knife at Bond . Of course he misses giving Bond the chance to throw the knife back at the would-be assassin . The now dead assassin falls into the coffin and the lid slams shut . Oh the irony ! But we're just getting started . The coffin falls off the boat and floats under a bridge just as a man hacking up his lungs crosses the same bridge . He sees the coffin and immediately gives up smoking . At this point my sides are splitting with laughter ! In the meantime , Bond flips a switch revealing that this is no ordinary gondola , but a supped-up MI6 variety of gondola . Out of seemingly thin air , boat loads of baddies appear and begin chasing Bond . During the chase , Bond barely misses a gondola carrying a couple in the middle of a passionate make-out session . They are apparently so into their lovemaking that they are oblivious to the baddie's boat that " hysterically " slices their gondola in half . As their half of the gondola sails off ( apparently still sea worthy ) , they remain in their oblivious embrace . The gondolier in the other half isn't so lucky . As his half begins to sink , he continues to use his pole in a vain attempt to stay afloat and gives the camera his best look of comic exasperation . Stop it ! I've got tears in my eyes ! Just when you think things can't get any worse , Bond approaches land and pushes another button turning his gondola into a hovercraft . It's at this point the real " fun " begins . As Bond drives his hover-gondola through a major Venetian square , we are treated to several " hysterical " reaction shots . A man drinking wine swears off alcohol . A painter loses his painting and isn't aware it's gone . Even the animals get in on the act as a pigeon gives Bond a double-take . Yes , that's right ? a pigeon does a double-take ! The utter ridiculousness of this brief moment encapsulates everything that's wrong with Moonraker . Cubby and Company changed Bond from a tough , womanizing spy with a penchant for the occasional quip into a clown with an infinite supply of gags and one-liners . Ian Fleming must have been spinning in his grave . It's really too bad because there are some nice moments and things to enjoy sprinkled throughout Moonraker . If you can excuse Lois Chiles and her impersonation of a piece of wood , the acting is okay for this kind of movie . I've read any number of bad things about Michael Lonsdale as Hugo Drax , but I think he's one of the bright spots . I appreciate his cerebral , understated approach to playing the Bond heavy . Some of the action set-pieces in the first half are quite enjoyable . I particularly like the sword fight in the glass museum even if it does end with on of Bond's more groan-inducing quips . And even the final laser showdown in space is well-filmed and enjoyable regardless of how absurd it might be . In the end , even though there are some things I like about Moonraker , the comedic core of the movie really hurts it in my eyes . The best I can do is rate it a .
Why have I seen this more than once ?	- Post apocalyptic story that does it's best to be The Road Warrior but generally fails on ever level . Various bands of people are all seeking civilization . But a group known as the Templars only wants to see everyone on the planet dead . Why ? They spout some wacky philosophical stuff that makes little sense . The Templar's main purpose appears to be to destroy any remaining fashion sense . These guys , with their incredibly bad hair , are cute in their matching white and black leather outfits with comically large shoulder pads . - Giancarlo Prete is our hero , Scorpion . He's a loner type . He doesn't need anyone's help . He only gets into a situation every ten minutes that he can't get out of if it weren't for Fred Williamson ( Nadir ) . Williamson also wears a ridiculous outfit and shoots exploding arrows . His major purpose , other than saving Scorpion's life , is making silly faces at the camera . - The whole thing is incredibly ridiculous . I haven't rated it any lower because of a couple of scenes that do , in fact , work . The torture and rape of Scorpion by the Templars and the Templar leader getting it in the end ( wink , wink ) are highlights .
Gotta love Denise Nicholas	In the 18th Century , Count Dracula invites an African Prince and his wife to his home in Transylvania to discuss an alliance between their two countries . Slavery and the Prince's wife prove to be the sticking point . Before the Prince can take his leave , Dracula attacks the Prince , places a curse on him , and puts his body in a locked casket for eternity . Centuries later , the Prince is released from his prison and almost immediately meets a woman who is remarkably similar to his wife . The Prince , now known as Blacula , will do whatever it takes to make this woman his new bride . Sounds familiar , huh ? The basic plot structure of Blacula has been seen countless times before . There's very little new ground broken here . In fact , and to be quite honest , Blacula isn't very good . Much of the acting is bad and the special effects are even worse . Blacula's makeup changes from scene to scene . Atmosphere and tension are totally foreign . Logic is non-existent . But what makes Blacula at least somewhat enjoyable are the Blaxplotation and other camp elements . Blacula is , of course , black and this is modern day ( 1972 ) America . Blacula swings at a nightclub to some very funky 70s music . Blacula's first two victims are a pair of homosexuals presented with every 70s stereotype intact . Blacula makes love with his intended victim . You won't see this stuff in just any old vampire film .
A reunion for Lugosi , Manners , and Van Sloan	It's a plot device that's been used many times since , but The Death Kiss may have been the first time an actor was killed on set when someone fired a real bullet instead of blanks ( at least it's the first I know of ) . Studio writer Franklyn Drew ( David Manners ) takes it upon himself to " help " the police find the killer ? whether they actually want him snooping around or not . It seems that Drew has a thing for the film's leading lady , Marcia Lane ( Adrienne Ames ) , a prime suspect because of her past relationship with the dead man . With lots of clues , red herrings , and no shortage of suspects , Drew's got his work cut out for him . The Death Kiss is far from being a great movie , but for a low budget poverty row thriller / mystery , it's not half bad . One of the more interesting aspects of the film is the reuniting of Dracula alums Manners , Bela Lugosi , and Edward Van Sloan . Unlike Dracula , however , this is Manners ' film with his scenes and importance far out-stripping his better known co-stars . In fact Lugosi is given very little to actually do other than stare suspiciously and mysteriously at anyone who gets within his gaze . Another positive aspect is the relationship between Manners and Ames . They work well together and make a very believable couple . First time director Edwin L . Marin does a more than adequate job with this early talkie . He seems to have an understanding of the medium and how to use it . The plot includes plenty of twists and turns to keep the viewer's interest . And the final outcome and reveal , though dependent upon coincidence and a bit of dumb luck , is more than satisfactory .
It could have been really good , but it isn't	- Giant of Marathon could have been a really good movie . It's got a lot going for it . Steve Reeves , fresh off his stint as Hercules , is good and dependable in this kind of movie . He did Sword and Sandal as good as anyone . The movie also has some very nice action sequences . I'm far from an expert , but the battle scenes in Giant of Marathon are the best I've seen in a Sword and Sandal . My favorite bit had to be the ship equipped with James Bond style pinchers that were used to sink other ships . Nice touch . The movie also features a " good " bad guy . Teocrito is about as villainous as they come . - But the movie isn't what I would call " really good " . It has far too many problems . The first is the love story underlying the action . The love scenes are so corny that they are difficult to watch . Cringe inducing is the best way I can think to describe it . Another real and more important problem is that parts of Giant of Marathon can be incredibly boring . When the battle scenes aren't on screen , nothing happens - a lot of ridiculous talk that isn't in the least interesting .
" I wanna go to Dog Heaven ! "	Where to start with this bizarre modern-day retelling of the H . G . Wells ' classic ? In many respects , The Island of Dr . Moreau is a train wreck of a movie . On so many levels , it's an unmitigated disaster . The problems on the set with the cast and crew are legendary . People getting fired , others getting mad and walking off , and some distracted by personal issues ? it must have been like living a soap opera . Maybe it's all these competing issues that helps to make what should be an unwatchable mess so interesting . For all its faults , The Island of Dr . Moreau is actually quite an enjoyable experience . Bizarre would be a good word to describe much of The Island of Dr . Moreau ? and I'm not just talking about the events in the movie's plot . The characters are just plain weird . Each appears to be competing with the other to be the most bizarre . David Thewlis ' Edward Douglas goes through range of emotions including fear , lust , anger , and disinterest . If it weren't for Marlon Brando , Val Kilmer's Montgomery would be one of the strangest characters in movie history . He's like some sort of butch game-keeper with a death wish . But Brando is in the movie and his Dr . Moreau tops everyone . The scene with Brando in a muumuu and an ice bucket hat is a sight that must be seen to be believed . Words cannot do it justice . Add to that the variety of half-man , half-animal creatures on the island and you've got one strange collection of characters . Speaking of the creatures , the make-up effects are the film's strongest assets . Some , like Hyena or the Sayer of the Law , are as good examples of creature make-up as you'll see . These effects do add a certain creepiness to the whole thing ( that is if you can keep from laughing at Brando's latest get-up ) . Despite enjoying much of the movie , I cannot call The Island of Dr . Moreau a particularly " good " movie ? not in the traditional sense anyway . The movie has too many problems to do that . The movie is terribly paced , any attempts at drama or horror are usurped by the ridiculousness of the characters , some of the special effects look like they came from a Nintendo 64 , and , frustratingly , none of the characters demonstrate anything remotely resembling common sense . As much as I hate to do it , but because of my mixed feelings , I feel forced to give The Island of Dr . Moreau a very wishy-washy .
" It is true that you can't live among beasts without becoming one . "	While doing some scientific explorations of Antarctica , four scientists are forced to make an emergency landing in a volcanic crater . Beneath the perpetual cloud cover at the volcano rim , they discover a warm and humid land that hasn't changed in centuries . They discover a world full of strange dinosaurs and carnivorous plants . While trying to repair their helicopter , they discover something else ? the existence of at least one other human . Will this unknown man help them or is he as savage as the rest of the world in which they find themselves ? As far as a movie about modern man trapped in a prehistoric world goes , The Land Unknown is about average . I really wanted to like this one more , but rating it a is about the best I can do . For the most part , the film is well paced and director Virgil Vogel keeps things interesting . But even at 78 minutes in length , The Land Unknown is not without an excessive amount of padding ? especially at the beginning . Other than the giant T-Rex , the dinosaur effects are surprisingly strong . I was especially impressed with the dinosaur who lived in the water ( sorry , I'm no dinosaur expert so I'm not sure what kind of dino they were going for ) . Very nicely done . And the sets , from the imaginative plant life to the wonderful matte paintings , make the movie look much better than it should . But as good as that special effects were , the previously mentioned T-Rex is pitiful . It's just laughably bad . It's one of the most obvious man-in-a-suit monsters I can remember seeing . And as with seemingly everything else , the acting is hit-or-miss at best . No one really stands out and Shirley Patterson comes across as plain old annoying . In the end , I'm glad I finally had the opportunity to catch The Land Unknown . Even with some of the problems I had with the movie , it's one I plan to revisit in the future . An average Universal film from the 50s is still better than many of the alternatives .
Not much originality	I've just started going through the Buck Rogers in the 25th Century episodes for the first time since they originally aired . Up to now it's been an a blast . Episode 5 , " Vegas in Space " , is easily the worst I've watched so far . The problem ? the plot lacks any originality . You could have seen ( and probably did ) a similar plot line on any one of a dozen 70s television programs . I can easily imagine such a plot ( a girl who accidentally sees something she shouldn't have is kidnapped and " forced " to remember what she saw ) on Charlie's Angels or Vegas or Wonder Woman or . . . well , just name it . The names of the supporting cast may not mean much to most people , but the faces of Richard Lynch , Pamela Susan Shoop , and James Luisi certainly would . These actors would have been right at home on any of these television shows . The guest star of " Vegas in Space " is Cesar Romero , but unfortunately his screen time is terribly limited . It's hard to do much or make much of an impression in less than 5 minutes . Ah well , there's always the next episode .
A Mixed Bag	It's tough to pigeonhole a movie like The Devil Has 7 Faces . While I'm going to call it a Giallo , I do so with reservations . The Devil Has 7 Faces may not include the normal black-gloved , knife-welding mania , or even a body count usually associated with this kind of movie , but it does have enough of the Giallo feel to it in my mind to be called a Giallo . And when you mix in a smarmy George Hilton , Carroll Baker ( who I'm not particularly a fan of ) , a super " loungey " score from Stelvio Cipriani , and a convoluted plot , the result is a film that most any Giallo / Euro-Crime fan can find something to enjoy . The plot involves a woman named Julie Harrison ( Baker ) who is being terrorized by a gang of jewel thieves . It soon comes out that her twin sister , Mary , was involved in major diamond heist , but double-crossed her husband / partner . Have the jewel thieves confused Julie and Mary ? Unfortunately , the movie is not without its problems . Chief among them is the mediocre direction of Osvaldo Civirani . He seems incapable of creating suspense or tension even in the most obvious of moments . He also handles many of the key plot twists with all the finesse of a gorilla . Much of the movie's outcome is painfully obvious long before it should be . Finally , there are a couple of " What the . . . " type moments in The Devil Has 7 Faces . I don't want to give anything away , but there are some things that happen in the movie that just left me scratching my head .
My one word review - Uneven	Jane and the Lost City is the story of a band of plucky but incompetent band of Allies in a race to fortune in diamonds with an equally incompetent band of Nazis . Along the way , both groups run into a series of mildly amusing adventures and situations , including title character Jane's ability to lose her clothing at the most inopportune moments . As I've never seen the comic strip Jane and the Lost City is based on , I probably don't have the proper context in which to place this movie . That's no necessarily a bad thing as I also have no preconceived biases . The entire thing is played for laughs . Unfortunately , the comedy sequences in Jane and the Lost City are too uneven for me to rate the film any higher . While some of the comedy worked ( the tango scene is hysterical ) , some of it fell flat ( most everything Nazi henchman Hans did wasn't funny in the slightest ) . The acting is also uneven and ranges from really good ( Graham Stark as the butler Tombs ) to dreadful ( Kristen Hughes as Jane ) . Overall , I like the idea behind Jane and the Lost City , but more consistency in the writing and acting would have made this one much better .
Worth seeing as a curiosity piece , but that's about the only reason .	As a curiosity piece for fans of Charlie Chan , Eran Trece is rather interesting as it represents a peak at the lost film Charlie Chan Carries On . It gets bonus points from me for that fact alone . But without that connection and bit of trivia , Eran Trece is a weak film . My problems with the movie do not include most of the actors or technical aspects . Here , the film is comparable to any other Charlie Chan film . Instead , my problems with the movie rest with Chan's lack of involvement in most of the movie and the actor playing Chan . Chan only shows up in the final third of the film . And he doesn't really do much other than make a few wild guesses about the killer's identity . Chan seemed to be as in the dark as I as to who the killer was until he gave himself away . And Manuel Arbo's Chan leaves a lot to be desired . Instead of the intellectual , thinking detective , Arbo plays Chan as more of a fool who would rather wrestle over a clue than logically think things out . Maybe I'm just comfortable with Oland and Toler as Chan . But I sincerely think it's more than that . Arbo , with his lack of screen presence and overly animated acting style , isn't very good . Even with the film's shortcomings , I'm glad I finally had the opportunity to see this film . I also appreciate Fox for putting Eran Trece on their new Charlie Chan Collection . Unfortunately , however , I doubt I'll be watching it very often .
The evils of make-up	I'm not an expert when it comes to these RKO-Pathe Screenliner shorts , but Where is Jane Doe ? is one of the worst I've seen . I'm not even sure what message the film is trying to convey . Is it intended to be a warning about the problem of teen runaways or is it a congratulatory pat on the back of the police ? You would think that with only 8 minutes to work with , director Larry O'Reilly and writer Francis Dinsmoor would be more direct in their purpose and get right to the point . It's an odd narrative that doesn't work . One thing you can usually count on when watching one of these old shorts is an unintended laugh or two . I got a real chuckle out of Where is Jane Doe ? when the police discover the missing girl kept a secret make-up kit at a friend's house . Oh the horror ! Not make-up !
Too tedious to call very good	- The Pyx ( aka The Hooker Cult Murders ) is billed as a horror movie . It should probably more correctly be called a drama with a bit of horror thrown in . It's during these bits of horror that The Pyx becomes interesting . Unfortunately , the majority of the movie is devoted to the drama and is rather tedious and boring . - The movie opens with the death of a heroin-addicted prostitute from a fall from the top of a building . Other than sheer white lingerie , she's wearing an upside-down cross and holding a pyx ( Not being Catholic , I didn't know what it was either . Apparently , a pyx is a small container used by priests to hold communion wafers . ) The investigation soon points to something even more sinister than at first thought - a Satanic sacrifice . - The Pyx is told in two separate story lines . One is a flashback from the prostitute's ( Karen Black ) point of view leading up to the time of her death . The other is from the detective's ( Christopher Plummer ) point of view of his investigation following the murder . The movie frequently cuts back and forth between the two story lines . And while the police investigation is at least somewhat interesting , Karen Black's flashback is an exercise in tediousness . Despite being a heroin addict and a prostitute , her life is incredibly dull . It's during these scenes that the movie really suffers . If her life could have been made to seem at all interesting , the movie might have been very good . But as it is , the scenes of Karen Black walking around , arguing over dinner , and driving are just plain boring . - As I previously mentioned , the horror bits are very infrequent . Other than the final scene with bits of a Satanic ceremony , there's really very little horror . I suppose the scenes showing the aftermath of a couple of murders could be considered horror , but that's really stretching it . I'm sure that a few ardent horror fans have been disappointed in the mis-categorization of The Pyx . - Finally , I've got to mention the music in The Pyx . It's terrible . I've heard dogs howling at the moon that had a better musical quality . Most of the songs were apparently written and sung by Karen Black . While I've always enjoyed her as an actress , this is my first encounter with her as a singer . Hopefully , it will be my last .
It's certainly not the worst Naschy film I've seen	I'm like the Energizer Bunny when it comes to Paul Naschy ? I keep going and going and going with the hope of one day finding a Naschy film I really enjoy . I know the man has his fans , but I've yet to see the appeal . My latest excursion into Naschy's filmography is Curse of the Devil . It's certainly not the worst Naschy film I've seen ( that would be Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf ) , but the best I can do is call it an average horror film . The film gets off to a good start . The story explaining how Daninsky ( Naschy ) became a werewolf is well done . Much like Hammer's Curse of the Werewolf , the backstory presented in Curse of the Devil is nice as it provides a reasonable ( well , as reasonable as horror movies can be ) explanation behind lycanthropy . Too often , horror movies expect us to accept a person is a werewolf without any explanation other than they were bitten by a werewolf . It's as if it's always been that way , so just accept it . I really appreciated and enjoyed this portion of the film . These early scenes also have a nice Gothic feel to them and an attention to detail that really adds to the atmosphere . But then Daninsky changes into a werewolf and the whole thing goes downhill . It's the same old story we've seen numerous times . And , if you've seen many Naschy films , you'll definitely feel like you've seen it before . If Naschy is anything , he's consistent and predictable . From what I've seen , his films rarely stray from the tired and true path . But more specifically , there are a couple of things about the werewolf scenes that bother me . First , how is he able to sneak up on everyone ? Wouldn't the sound of a hulking , snarling werewolf be a tip-off that something's not quite right ? Second , the " special effects " are abysmal even when taking into account the time period in which the movie was made and any budget limitations . Most of the werewolf victims in Curse of the Devil look like people who have , for whatever reason , poured marinara sauce on their faces . It's not very effective . As I always seem to write when discussing a Naschy film , I'm not giving up . Even though I've yet to find that Naschy film that clicks with me , I'll keep going in hopes that sooner or later one will .
Continuity ? What's that ?	In this installment of Universal's Kharis mummy series , George Zucco is back as Andoheb , High Priest of Arkan . He sends his loyal servant Yousef Bey ( John Carradine ) to America to reunite Kharis with his love Ananka ( to have been dead for thousands of years , this woman is a lot of trouble ) . Tana leaves are brewed , the mummy comes back to life , and Ananka's spirit is transferred into the body of another woman . Will Kharis find his true love before the storyline changes ? Attempting to keep up with the ever-changing storyline in Universal's Kharis mummy series can be a daunting challenge but part of the fun of these movies . Some of the obvious examples in The Mummy's Ghost include - - - - 1 . How is Andoheb back again ? He was apparently killed in both of the previous two mummy movies . 2 . Arkan ? It was Karnak in the first two Kharis movies . 3 . In the previous movies , Kharis ' purpose was to protect Ananka's tomb and seek revenge on anyone who dared to defile it . All of a sudden , the mission changes to reuniting Kharis with Ananka so they can return to their tombs in Egypt . 4 . Kharis has been burned twice yet there doesn't appear to be so much as a singe on any of his wrappings . 5 . How many Tana leaves does it take to bring Kharis back to life ? The number changes from movie to movie . - - - - If all this sounds confusing , just watch what happens in the next sequel . Continuity doesn't appear to have been very high on the priority list . With the exception of The Mummy's Hand , the Kharis films have fairly interchangeable parts . One is not much better or worse than the others . And while there are moments in each I enjoy , it's difficult to call any of the last three Kharis films " good " . At best , The Mummy's Ghost is a harmless , sometimes entertaining way to spend an hour or so . I watch these movies over and over because I'm a sucker for mummy movies and mummy lore . The whole concept of a mummy coming back to life fascinates me like few other movie monsters .
The German Sherlock Holmes	On paper , Sherlock Holmes and the Deadly Necklace looks like a sure fired winner . Christopher Lee as Holmes , Thorley Walters ( who I swear seemed to be channeling Nigel Bruce at times ) as Watson , the capable Terence Fisher directing , and Curt Siodmak writing the screenplay , - what could go wrong ? It might have been great had the people behind this German / Italian / French co-production not messed with the script and hired a German co-director . The end result is middling at best . Even though the movie may be enjoyable at times , it bears little resemblance to the real Sherlock Holmes . Lee has described it as a " mess " . As he put it in an interview , " It was a hodge-podge of stories put together by the German producers which ruined it " . In the movie , Holmes is once again hot on the trail of Moriarty . Holmes feels Moriarty is responsible for two recent murders related to a necklace believed to have once been the property of Cleopatra . Through disguise and trickery , Holmes will attempt to reclaim the necklace and put a stop to Moriarty's nefarious scheme . The best part of Sherlock Holmes and the Deadly Necklace is easily the cast . Lee and Walters are both as good as you might expect . However , I'm not sure what brainiac decided not to hire either man to dub their own voice , but it was a huge , distracting mistake . The supporting cast is populated by a few familiar faces including the lovely ( but terribly underused ) Senta Berger and Leon Askin ( known to most people as General Burkhalter on " Hogan's Heroes " ) . But Hans Sohnker , unknown to me before watching Sherlock Holmes and the Deadly Necklace , as Moriarty is the real standout . He goes toe to toe with Lee and comes out looking quite good . If you're a fan of Sherlock Holmes , there may be some curiosity value to this movie . Or , if you're a Chirstopher Lee completist , it's worth checking out . Otherwise , skip it .
" I acted against the dictates of God "	Night of the Bloody Apes is a bizarre little film . It features : bad acting , a ridiculous storyline , terrible special effects , inane dialogue , Grand Canyon size plot holes , a complete lack of logic , enough padding for two movies , an insane amount of blood and gore , a generous helping of nudity , some truly " unique " camera-work , and female luchadors . I generally hate this term , but it should be easy to see why I consider Night of the Bloody Apes " so bad its good " . The movie is so full of excesses and poor taste that it's an absolute blast to watch . Night of the Bloody Apes may be a train wreck of a film , but I can't think of many movies that are this bad yet so fun to watch . I could go on and on describing moments for Night of the Bloody Apes like the utterly boring masked female wrestling matches or the eye gouging scene that looked like someone was squeezing cottage cheese , but I don't want to " ruin " it for anyone . You need to see this one for yourself .
When set design is the best part of the movie , you know you're in trouble	Dr . Leon Kraval ( Boris Karloff ) has developed a radical means of treating cancer using a freezing therapy . But before he can prove the success of his procedure he is accused of murder . An accident in his lab locks him , his accuser , the judge , the coroner , and the sheriff in his hidden freezing chamber . All are declared missing and presumed dead . Ten years later another doctor is onto the same research and decides to visit the now derelict home of Dr . Kraval in search of his secrets . What he doesn't expect to find is Dr . Kraval , frozen but alive , and ready to continue his experiments on his human guinea pigs . Anytime a new Boris Karloff movie that I haven't seen is set to release on DVD , there's reason for me to rejoice . It's rare that the man and his work have ever let me down . To say that I was under whelmed by The Man with Nine Lives would be an understatement . There's just not much here to get excited about . I wasn't expecting the second coming of Karloff's Frankenstein monster , but I had hoped for a lively , engrossing story . To put it kindly , much of the the movie is dull . A portion of the enjoyment I was able to derive from the movie came from my almost fanboy like appreciation of Karloff and his work . The man simply amazes me every time I see him on screen . Which makes it amazing to me that my favorite part of the movie was the exploration of the Kraval's house that actually takes place before Karloff makes his appearance . It wouldn't be fair to discuss The Man with Nine Lives without mentioning the set design . It's the real highlight of the movie . I've already mentioned the house . In old , dark house fashion , it's riddled with secret passages and mysterious locked doors . But the best part of the set design had to be the freezing rooms that were supposedly carved out of a glacier . To my untrained eye , I found them very believable and authentic looking . Very nice .
What a bizarre plot !	I would love to briefly explain the plot of It Can Be Done , Amigo , but I don't think I'm capable . It almost defies words with its bizarreness . I'll give it a stab though . Bud Spencer is Coburn , the opposite of what I normally associate with the hero of a Spaghetti Western ( SW ) . He's miles away from the image of the svelte Man with No Name . Coburn is a big man who looks like he may crush the horse he rides . He doesn't carry a gun , but relies on his powerful fists to defend himself . He is entrusted with safely delivering a young boy to his home after the boy's uncle dies . The trip won't be easy as hot on Coburn's heels is a wagon carrying the woman ( Dany Saval ) who insists on marrying Coburn , her brother ( Jack Palance ) who wants to kill Coburn , and the brother's traveling brothel . Once Coburn and the boy reach the boy's home , it seems that everyone in town , including the town's Mayor / Sheriff / Minister , is anxious to get it away from him , whether by buying it or killing to get it . Coburn's got to figure out a way to help the boy keep his land all the while staying one move ahead of his betrothed , her brother , and the Mayor / Sheriff / Minister who will stop at nothing to get the homestead . Whew ! That was difficult . But as confusing and crazy as the plot may sound , in the end , it all makes sense . Bud Spencer , as he proved in his many films with Terence Hill , has a flair for comedy and most of it works . Sure , there are a few misfires along the way , but you can generally count on Spencer to deliver . I cannot say the same for Jack Palance . Unlike almost every other review I've read on It Can Be Done , Amigo , I don't care for Palance in this film . His constant grimaces and sneering really didn't work for me . The rest of the cast is okay with Dany Saval giving a standout supporting performance . As much fun as I had with parts of this film , I can't rate it any higher because of the sluggish first act . The movie starts off at a snails pace and I was really worried I might fall asleep if something didn't happen soon . A little better pacing throughout It Can Be Done , Amigo might have gone a long way to making this a truly memorable SW .
Mantan Moreland is the only reason to watch this movie .	I won't even bother with a plot description . The plot isn't the reason anyone today is going to watch Law of the Jungle anyway . The only reason to watch this movie and the only thing its got going for it is Mantan Moreland . As un-PC as it is in today's world , Moreland's brand of comedy is often laugh-out-loud funny . While he's not given material in Law of the Jungle that's as good as he had in some of his other movies ( For example , I think he's given better , funnier lines in King of the Zombies . ) , I still found a laugh or two and always a smile on my face . As for the rest of the movie , it's largely forgettable . From the ridiculous night club in the middle of the jungle to the completely unrealistic man-in-a-gorilla suit to star John " Dusty " King's wooden performance , there's little besides Moreland to recommend . The rating I've give Law of the Jungle ( ) is based almost entirely on Mantan Moreland . One final thing , maybe I've missed something , but it seems a bit odd to me that Mantan Moreland's character's name is Jefferson " Jeff " Jones . If you go through his filmography , you'll notice that Moreland often played a character named Jefferson Jones or Jeff Jones or simply Jeff . Is this supposed to be the same person ? It has no real bearing on Law of the Jungle , just something I noticed and thought was strange .
Fairly standard 1940s comedy / horror / mystery / thriller	One Body Too Many is a fairly enjoyable The Cat and the Canary style film . It's not great , but it's certainly not the worst piece of trash to come down the pike . As I alluded , those familiar with The Cat and the Canary aren't going to find the plot groundbreaking with its originality ? an old dark house with secret passages , greedy family members gathered for the reading of the will of an eccentric and rich patriarch , the will includes all sorts of unusual stipulations , and at least one person in the party proves to be a killer and begins bumping off other family members . It's nothing new . This basic plot structure was fairly common in the 40s and One Body Too Many is a typical example . As I've learned to expect from a comedy / horror / mystery / thriller from the 40s , some of the movie will work and some won't . Going in , I always hope that what works is more than what doesn't work . One of the things that worked well for me in One Body Too Many was Bela Lugosi . Playing what is essentially the supporting role of butler , Lugosi steals scene after scene . The running gag involving Lugosi and the coffee is very nearly laugh-out-loud funny . Jack Haley ( who generally gets on my nerves ) also has his moments that really work . He has at least one scene where he ends up naked in a clothes hamper that I found hysterical . But even with these great moments , overall the good and the bad in One Body Too Many pretty much balanced out , resulting in what I'll call an average way to spend 75 minutes .
What a title !	What a title ! Just imagine The Inconsolable Widow Thanks All Those Who Consoled Her ( let's shorten that to The Inconsolable Widow for the rest of this ) on a marquee . The movie is about a childless widow named Catarina Prevosti ( Edwige Fenech ) . Because Catarina gave her husband no heirs , Italian law mandates that his fortune revert to his blood relatives ? his two bumbling brothers . Catarina's mother , naturally , cooks up a plan for her and Catarina to keep the money . If Catarina should become pregnant in the next couple of weeks , no one will know the child isn't her husband's . The brothers figure out what's going on an do everything they can , including posting guards around Catarina's house , to keep any man away from Catarina . I haven't seen very many 70s Italian comedies , but The Inconsolable Widow appears to be about average . Some of the comedy works while a lot of it falls flat . I found the whole set-up , complete with armed guards , quite humorous . Much of the humor is quite naturally centered on sex and would be considered very politically incorrect in our current environment . As I could have predicted , these are the parts that I found the funniest . One of my favorite scenes involves Catarina's mother giving a would be suitor a pep talk before he heads to the bedroom . This is the first of Edwige Fenech's comedies I've seen . Based on what I got out of The Inconsolable Widow , I think I'll track down a few more .
Hit and miss from Bava	Reading various comments on the internet about Roy Colt and Winchester Jack , you would think that it was the worst movie ever made . I've now seen most of Mario Bava's films ( 23 , to be exact ) and I've seen my fair share of Spaghetti Westerns . While Roy Colt and Winchester Jack isn't a very good example of either , it's hardly the worst film Bava made ( see Dr . Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs ) or the worst Spaghetti Western I've watched ( see God's Gun ) . In fact , there are moments and certain set-pieces in the movie that I really enjoyed . The best example that comes to mind is the film's finale . Without giving it away , I'll just say that it's a nice twist that worked for me . The film's soundtrack is interesting . I wouldn't call it a traditional Spaghetti Western , but it's enjoyable enough anyway . Brett Halsey and Charles Southwood are okay in the title roles , but Marilu Tolo stands out in the role of Manila . More of Tolo would have been a good thing . Finally , while some of the more eccentric characters in the movie don't work , the gunfighter in the opening scenes with Tourettes Syndrome is a real hoot . I actually would have enjoyed Roy Colt and Winchester Jack more and rated it higher if it weren't for two things . First , the movie hardly feels like a Bava film . There are none of the great director's flourishes of color or unique camera tricks I look forward to seeing . It's all rather flat and dull looking . Second , and my biggest complaint with the movie , is the character called The Reverend . A more annoying character I can't think of at the moment . He's not funny , he's not threatening , and his idiosyncrasies are downright painful to watch . Similar to what I wrote about Tolo , less of The Reverend would have been a good thing .
Not the best of the series	- Stolen furs , a dead night watchman , insurance scams , and a killer with a hook for a hand named The Claw . It's up to Dick Tracy to unravel the mystery . - I have now seen four of these Dick Tracy movies from the 1940s and this is easily my least favorite . Dick Tracy's Dilemma seems tired and offers very few fresh ideas . It's a shame that a really nasty villain like The Claw wasn't in a movie with a better story . RKO probably did the right thing by ending the Dick Tray series with this movie . - If your interested in watching one of these older Dick Tracy movies , my recommendation goes to Dick Tracy Meets Gruesome with Boris Karloff .
Run Bill , Run	The second episode in Return to the Planet of the Apes , " Escape from Ape City " , primarily follows the plight of Bill as he is taken to Cornelius and Zira's lab for experimentation . Bill quite naturally proves to be brighter than the average human . But when brain surgery is suggested , Bill blows his cover and the apes discover he can speak . Not wanting to see him put to death , Cornelius and Zira agree to help Bill escape . As with the first episode , " Escape from Ape City " doesn't provide many surprises for those familiar with the basic storyline found in Planet of the Apes . The plot closely mirrors Taylor's ordeal from the movie . One interesting change is that ape city and the civilization presented in this episode more closely resembles Pierre Boulle's original book . It's a more advanced culture with transportation , communication , and other " modern " infrastructure . Also , I feel I should mention that I do enjoy the way the story arc continues from one episode to the next . It gives the overall series a more natural flow .
Not even Peter Cushing can save this one	Fear in the Night is a very seldom discussed Hammer film with Peter Cushing and Joan Collins . It's the story of a woman recently released from the hospital after suffering a nervous breakdown . She's just been married and is about to join her husband who teaches at an all-boys school . The night before she leaves , she is attacked in her apartment . When help arrives , there is no sign of an intruder . Did she imagine the attack or did it really happen ? Soon after arriving at the school , she is attached again . No one believes her . Her husband leaves for an overnight trip to London . That night , she hears strange noises downstairs . She grabs her gun and carefully goes down the stairs . Suddenly , the lights come on and ? ? . . There's a reason this movie is so seldom discussed ? much of the movie is a complete and utter bore . A good portion of the screenplay consists of various characters walking around the school . Just walking . Nothing really happens to them . They just walk . The movie is not , though , without its good points . The finale presents a nice twist that , although fairly predictable , is well done . I can't really recommend this to anyone other than Peter Cushing or Hammer completest . For what it's worth , I give this one a .
Why do people in horror movies insist on staying in creepy old castles ?	- After running out on an unpaid hotel bill , a bus carrying five showgirls , their manager , and a driver becomes stranded because of bad weather . They seek shelter in a nearby castle ( Is it a European custom to ask any stranger with a spooky castle if you can spend the night when you're stranded ? ) . At first , the owner , Count Gabor Kernassy , is reluctant to let them stay , but eventually changes his mind after noting that one of the girls looks like a dead relative . During dinner , the Count tells his guests that they must remain in their rooms at night . Unfortunately for Playgirl Katia , she didn't listen and begins exploring ( What a shocker ! ) the castle after everyone has gone to bed . The next morning , her dead body is found on the castle's grounds . Was it an accident or was she murdered ? And who else will die in Castle Kernassy ? - Let's get this out of the way up-front , The Playgirls and the Vampire is remembered for one thing - it was one of the first Italian horror movies ( if not the very first ) to mix nudity with horror . As a curiosity piece , it's interesting , but it's hardly the basis for a good movie . If you're interested in a slow moving Italian Gothic horror , there are far better movies to be found than this one . The Playgirls and the Vampire moves too slowly for even the most patient and disciplined fan . The first can best be described as drudgery . - The American title is a bit misleading . It suggests that the movie's plot is about a group of scantily clad women being terrorized by a vampire . Let's see , one woman is bitten and the vampire is one of the least threatening I've ever seen . Walter Brandi plays the vampire ( and the Count ) and his performance is best described as stiff . He acts like his arms might fall off if he moves too quickly . The Playgirls in the title are the most untalented group of showgirls ever assembled . And the emotions they feel for their fallen comrade consist of rehearsing their sad dance routine within minutes of the funeral . - The movie does pick-up the pace and become fairly entertaining for the last of the running time . The underground passages are creepy and provide the only atmosphere to be found . The final fight between the two vampires is enjoyable in a campy / cheesy sort of way . This portion of the movie saves it from becoming a total waste of time . - If any of this sounds interesting , I recommend watching Bloody Pit of Horror instead . The plots are almost identical ( just replace a homicidal lunatic for the vampire ) , but Bloody Pit of Horror is so much more fun .
Not Lenzi's Best	To fully enjoy many of the gialli I've seen recently , the viewer must , as I call it , take a " leap of logic " . What I mean is that if the viewer were to stop and think about how illogical things in the movie were , they probably wouldn't enjoy the movie as much . Well , with Spasmo the viewer is asked to take a Grand Canyon size leap of logic . The problem is , I only made it half way across . The illogical actions and reactions the character make throughout the movie ruined much of my enjoyment . When faced with a situation , in almost every instance the characters act and react in the most illogical manner possible in order to advance the storyline . A logical decision by any character at any time would have brought the movie to a screeching halt . That's not to say that there weren't things I liked about the movie . The latex dummies hanging from trees were a nice touch . The way the murders are shown in flashback at the end of the movie was a fairly innovative idea . But , there weren't enough of these moments . The acting is what you would expect . The score by Morricone , while good , is not one of his best . The revelation of the murderer is by far the best part of the movie . The DVD from Shriek Show is a mixed bag - good picture , but lots of hiss in spots on the soundtrack . Overall , this is not one of the better gialli I've seen . If you want to see a far superior giallo by Lenzi , see Seven Blood-Stained Orchids . For what it's worth , I'll give Spasmo .
Interesting , but flawed	- Liberia : An Uncivil War is a sometimes interesting , sometimes shocking , but sometimes flawed look at the last days of the Civil War in Liberia in 1993 . One of the directors was embedded with the rebel group LURD , while the other spent his time in the capital city with the government and the people . The portions of the movie that focuses on the rebels is fascinating . More than of few of the rebels appear to be little more than boys . Their training appeared to be all but non-existent . Yet , the commitment to the rebel cause was obvious . - The portion focusing on the government was just as interesting . The images of civilians being slaughtered were horrific . It was amazing to watch some of these people attempt to go through life as if a battle wasn't taking place a few miles away . The one glaring weakness with this portion of the movie was the lack of in-depth coverage of the government's forces . Whether the filmmakers weren't afforded access or they just failed to report on the army was not made clear . What was clear was the fact that the army wasn't any more prepared or organized than the rebels . - My biggest complaint with the film ( and I'm sure I'll get negative votes for this ) was what I perceived to be an anti-American bias on the part of the filmmakers . At every possible opportunity , America was shown in as negative a light as possible . I understand that these may only be perceptions on my part , but that's the way I saw it .
I've come to expect more from a cop movie with Tomas Milian	When a band of crooks kills a police officer during a daylight robbery , Inspector Tomas Ravelli of Interpol quickly discovers that the gun used by the robbers matches the gun used to kill his wife some years previous . Whether the Italian police want his assistance or not , Ravelli makes it his mission to track down the killers and avenge his wife's death . It may not be fair , but I can't help but compare all of the Italian cop movies I see with Almost Human ( my favorite of those I've seen ) . And Emergency Squad does not compare favorably . Almost Human was a thrill-a-minute ride with some surprising scenes of brutality . Emergency Squad , on the other hand , is almost a by-the-numbers cop movie that's very nearly bland . I suppose that my greatest disappointment comes from the fact that I've come to expect more from a cop movie with Tomas Milian as the star . Generally , I really enjoy Milian's work . It doesn't matter if he's playing the cop or the crook , he usually a very entertaining actor with something different to offer in each role . His character in Emergency Squad is the exception . I'm convinced that almost anyone could have played this part as effectively as Milian . He chomps on a cigar , has a perpetual scowl on his face , and doesn't talk much . He's just not a very interesting character . I realize that most of what I've written would seem to suggest I didn't enjoy the movie . That's not true - Emergency Squad is a well-made , fairly entertaining movie . While it may not be a new all-time favorite , it's definitely worth a look . But , if you're looking for one of the best examples of an Italian cop movie , look elsewhere . NoShame has once again delivered a quality DVD for the Region 1 market ( I'm starting to sound like a commercial for NoShame ) . Image and sound are great considering the type of movie we're dealing with here .
One of the Worst of the Columbo Series	- While on a trip to England to learn about some of Scotland Yard's latest innovations , Columbo stumbles upon a murder . The producer of a Shakespearean play has been killed and Columbo's suspicion soon fall on a husband and wife acting team appearing in the producer's latest play . Columbo must match wits with this pair of thespians to prove their guilt . - The long running series of Columbo movies was in its second year when Dagger of the Mind was made . It's amazing that the people behind the movies felt it necessary to " jump the shark " so early in the series . The whole idea of Columbo in England is ridiculous . It's something you do when you are desperate for ratings . Fortunately for fans of Columbo , the series survived this misguided attempt to ( I suppose ) spice things up and continued for years . - I have several problems with the movie , but I'll focus on only one - the ending . Without going into details , the evidence that catches the pair of killers is a bead inside an umbrella placed there by Columbo . Had the murderers only remained silent , there's no way a jury would have convicted them with such obviously planted evidence . But , in order to wrap things up in two hour time slot , one of the killers immediately falls to pieces and begins to confess to everything . How utterly silly . A man who is capable of killing someone is surely capable of withstanding the pressure of a little illegally planted evidence . - This is easily the worst of the Columbo movies I've seen to date .
The keys to the mystery are too obvious	- Renowned symphony conductor Alex Benedict ( John Cassavetes ) has a problem - the pianist with whom he's having an affair threatens to go public if he doesn't leave his wife . This would ruin his career , so he decides to kill her . He arranges the murder to look like suicide . Should the police become suspicious , he has a ready alibi covering him for the time of the murder . What Benedict doesn't count on though is a lieutenant named Columbo . - As a general rule , I am a fan of the Columbo movies . But unfortunately , this is not one of the best . The key and fun to watching Columbo is trying to figure out what clues he will use to trap the killer . In Etude in Black , the key to the murder ( a flower ) is made painfully obvious to the viewer . Add the obvious flower with the even more obvious change in mileage on Benedict's car and I'm surprised it took Columbo more than 15 minutes to solve this murder . - Much of the movie is obviously padded to fill a longer fun time on television . But , it's one of these scenes that is my favorite . I get a real kick out of seeing this poor slob Columbo who makes $11 , 000 a year discussing property taxes with a man who makes millions . Very entertaining .
" There is a big , nappy hair in my sundae . "	Super Size Me is the hugely successful documentary that follows Morgan Spurlock , a healthy 32 year-old filmmaker , as he goes on a month long diet consisting of nothing but food from McDonald's . If McDonald's doesn't sell it , he's not eating it . He's also set a goal of limiting his exercise to 5 , 000 steps per day . According to the movie this is the average amount walked by most Americans . The results : a 24 . 5 pound weight gain , increased cholesterol , liver damage , and , if you believe Spurlock and his girlfriend , depression and a decreased sex drive . If you believe the results the film presents , it's quite eye-opening . After having watched Super Size Me for the first time , my initial reaction is that while it's a reasonably entertaining way to spend an hour and a half , the logic and methodology are so flawed that it's difficult for me to take it too seriously . To begin with , who eats at McDonald's three meals a day ? And why go for the Double Quarter Pounder with Cheese for your first meal ? And do you really need to add a shake to every order ? I'm not defending McDonald's at all ? their food is some of the most unhealthy junk you can find . But if you're going to go into an experiment and eat like Spurlock does , the results are predictable . The most shocking thing to me about the outcome is how shocked his doctors appear . Spurlock set out to prove something and did everything in his power to make sure he got the outcome he desired . Otherwise his movie and efforts would have been a failure . In the end , I don't care what diet you're on or where you get your food , if you consume an average of 5 , 000 calories a day and limit your exercise , you're going to gain weight and do damage to your body . Is that really surprising ? As for Spurlock's claims of depression and a reduced sex drive , they're just that ? claims . There's no empirical data to support these claims . They sound good , but can't be scientifically documented . Again , I'm no supporter of McDonald's , but if you're going to bash the company , you're going to need a little more " evidence ' than this . Even though I have problems with Super Size Me , it has made me re-think some of my own food choices ? and not just for myself , but for my child as well . We still eat at McDonald's , but try to make smarter choices . So I suppose that on some level I have to admit that the movie worked on me . I guess a rating of would be about right .
" Halt the flow of time ! "	Writing any sort of review on Starcrash is difficult . The plot is hardly worth rehashing as it's little more than a mish-mash of ideas taken ( i . e . stolen ) from other movies . Writing about the poor technical aspects of the movie is like shooting fish in a barrel ? not much of a challenge . And it would be a waste of time to discuss the bad special effects ? why restate the obvious ? It's one of those movies that must be seen to be believed . Also , coming up with a rating for Starcrash is equally difficult . Starcrash is just plain old bad . But it's the kind of bad that's cheesy , campy , and , ultimately , entertaining for those who enjoy wallowing in such things . So I've decided to take the easy way out and rate Starcrash a wishy-washy . Bad ? ? Yes . Entertaining ? ? Definitely . Instead of a regular review , I've decided to make a list of the things I took away from my experience with Starcrash : 1 . Starcrash is in no way a Star Wars rip-off . It's a Star Wars / Jason and the Argonauts / Barbarella rip-off . 2 . When going into battle , exploring unknown worlds , or doing any other physically demanding activity , be smart and dress appropriately . Thigh-high stiletto boots and a leather bikini appear to be the outfit of choice . 3 . Maybe it has something to do with life support , but heavy eye make-up and hairspray appear to be essential for survival on distant planets . 4 . Explosions in space are almost identical to what you might see at a July 4 fireworks display . 5 . Christopher Plummer can deliver the most ridiculous , idiotic dialogue as if it were Shakespeare . 6 . If you take a bunch of ordinary household items and stick them together just right , you to can create a real starship . 7 . Lava lamps can be dangerous when they go on a rampage . 8 . Apparently , you can break a window out of a space ship with no worries . 9 . Marjoe ? 10 . Man - Hasselhoff had one helluva girlish bouffant .
So Mr . Hyde was some sort of werewolf / vampire combo monster ?	On her 21st birthday , Janet Smith ( Gloria Talbott ) discovers she has inherited an estate and a large sum of money . She's suddenly a wealthy woman about to be wed to the man of her dreams , George Hastings ( John Agar ) . But she learns something else . She learns her father's secret . She discovers she is the daughter of the infamous Dr . Jekyll . And she begins having vivid nightmares of killing people in the most horrible of ways . She wakes to find herself covered in blood , her clothes torn , and her shoes muddy . Has she somehow inherited a dark , split-personality from her father that turns her into a snarling maniac ? For anyone who has seen both Daughter of Dr . Jekyll and Universal's She-Wolf of London , am I alone in comparing the two ? I hate to give too much away about either movie , but there's no denying the similarities ? two women about to be married , both under the impression that they turn into killers when the moon is full , slowly being driven mad , yet neither is responsible for the acts they are accused . It's too much of a coincidence to be just dumb luck . Oddly enough , though , I prefer Daughter of Dr . Jekyll to She-Wolf of London . It's not a great movie by any stretch of the imagination , but it is slightly more enjoyable to me than the earlier movie . Chief among the reasons that I prefer this movie is the female lead . June Lockhart is one of my biggest complaints with She-Wolf of London . Gloria Talbott is far more believable in the similar role . My biggest complaint with Daughter of Dr . Jekyll is the changes it makes to the Jekyll / Hyde storyline . Hyde is now referred to as a werewolf that had to be staked through the heart to kill him . Huh ? So now he's some sort of werewolf / vampire creature ? News to me ! And I never quite understood how his daughter was supposed to have inherited his " curse " . Wasn't Dr . Jekyll's " curse " self-induced ? It doesn't seem that something that could be passed from one generation to the next .
Requires a rewatch .	As I've written any number of times , one of the things I enjoy most about Italian films is their convoluted plots . I've rarely run across a Giallo that I have difficulty making sense out of after it's over . But I've met my match with Delirium . It's a movie that I'm definitely going to have to watch again to fully comprehend what's going on . From what I did get out of the movie , Delirium is the story of a police psychologist investigating a string of murder that he himself may be responsible for . A number of young girls are killed in a variety of explicit and shocking ways . The doctor's wife appears to understand her husband's madness , but is so in love with him that she actively protects him . But can she also protect herself either from her husband or from going mad ? ( At least this is what I think the film is about . ) Those interested in a variety of explicit and imaginative kills should find something to enjoy in Delirium . My " favorite " may be the first when the girl is stripped and killed in the river . As he proved in Bloody Pit of Horror , Mickey Hargitay could play a completely insane , over-the-top killer with the best of them . He may not have been the greatest actor in the world , but I certainly appreciate the passion and energy he brought to his films . If you're more into the sex aspects of Gialli , there's plenty of that found in Delirium . The most obvious example is the dream sequence where Hargitay is chained by his neck and forced to watch his wife , his niece , and his maid engage in a sexual romp . But , if you watch Gialli for the mystery aspects and to try to figure out " who done it " , as I've indicated , Delirium may not be the best Giallo for you .
A wishy-washy	A mother and daughter , coming home from a softball game , decide to stop for ice cream . Their plans change when a bank robber on the run kidnaps them and forces the mother to drive him to an abandoned house his gang is using as a meeting place . What the would-be criminals don't know is that their hideout is just over the hill from an abandoned slaughterhouse that's home to a crazed , psychopathic killer . Guilty or innocent , it doesn't really matter to this hooded killer ? he wants ' em all dead ! I've seen several reviews that use the word " derivative " when describing Malevolence . In fact , the director , Stevan Mena , uses it himself in one of the special features on the DVD . I cannot think of a better word . Malevolence is derivative of every slasher that came before it . There's very little originality in much of what's presented on screen . Take the music . I don't see how anyone could listen to Malevolence's soundtrack and not be immediately reminded of Halloween . Even the music cues are the same . I realize that when you're working with something as tired as a slasher , it's got to be hard to come up with a movie full of original ideas , but I'm not sure Mena even tried . But I've got to give Mena and Malevolence credit for a few things . First , there's the plot . I do appreciate the fact that Mena tried to do something rather unique and shift gears about 30 minutes into the movie . On the DVD , he claims to have been inspired by Hitchcock's Psycho . Whatever , it was an interesting move on his part . Second , I really like the authentic locations Mena chose for Malevolence . There's nothing like a real , old , crumbling slaughterhouse as a setting for your slasher . The location does give the film some atmosphere and a very creepy look . Finally , I like the way Mena has us as an audience rooting for the bad guys . Mena manipulates the audience to actively cheer for the characters who are essentially the bad guys in the first act of the movie . Sure , bank robbers and kidnappers aren't the kind of people I want to invite over for dinner , but I'll take them over a mindless killer any day . In the end , I can't really call Malevolence good , but I've certainly seen much worse . I appreciate some of the ideas Mena had for his film , but overall it lacks originality in its execution . However , I would be interested in seeing what Mena does next .
" He tampered in God's domain ! "	Dr . Varnoff ( Bela Lugosi ) is trying to build an army of atomic supermen . He uses a trained octopus to gather his test subjects . When the latest two men go missing , the newspapers are filled with stories of monsters . But the police have been through the swamp numerous times and have so far turned up nothing . Intrepid newspaperwoman Janet Lawton goes to investigate and quickly finds herself in Dr . Varnoff's clutches . Can her boyfriend , Lt . Dick Craig , save her before she becomes Dr . Varnoff's latest experiment ? Ever since he was awarded a Golden Turkey in the early 1980s as the Worst Director of All Time , it seems fashionable to lump all of Ed Wood's films together and dismiss them as garbage . Bride of the Monster is proof that all of Mr . Wood's work was not created equal . It's probably one of his best cinematic achievements . I'll go so far as to describe it as an entertaining little horror movie that can be fun once you get past its inherent limitations . By " limitations " , I'm referring to things like the rubber octopus , flimsy sets , and bad acting ( to give just three examples ) . But if you know that going in and don't let it bother you , you might find a worthwhile low-budget thriller . Bride of the Monster actually has a couple of things going for it . One is Bela Lugosi . This is Bela late in his career . Years of drug abuse have taken their toll . But he's able to pull himself together and give one last really nice performance . His speech about " going home " is one of the movie's highlights and should be a favorite of Lugosi's fans . The other positive I'll mention from Bride of the Monster is Ed Wood himself . Sure , he might have lacked the talent , skill , and expertise of more accomplished directors , but there's a real love of cinema in Ed Wood's movies . It's easy to tell he enjoyed what he was doing . And to me , that's worth something .
" You cannot mesmerize me ! I'm British ! "	How many of these lost-world / center-of-the-earth style movies did they make in the late 60s and early 70s ? I swear I think I've seen a dozen or more . In At the Earth's Core , Dr . Abner Perry ( the great Peter Cushing ) and David Innes ( Doug McClure ) set off for an experimental ride in their earth digging machine , the Iron Mole . Something goes horribly wrong ( and doesn't it always ! ) and the pair find themselves miles beneath the Earth's surface in a strange and unusual world . This underground world is ruled by some ridiculous looking pterodactyl-like creatures that make slaves of the local human inhabitants . It's the usual story from here on out ? defeat the creatures , get the girl , escape , and generally save the day . As much as I hate rating a movie a wishy-washy , that pretty much sums up my feelings of At the Earth's Core . I mean parts of the movie are bad and parts of the movie are good . On the bad side you've got the really awful special effects and a whole " been there , done that " feeling to much of the movie . As bad as the rubber-suited pterodactyl men look , they pale in comparison to what I'll call the saber-toothed hippo and the giant fire-breathing frog . You've also got Doug McClure trying in vain to play the hero . It doesn't work . On the positive side you've got Peter Cushing hamming it up like I've never seen before and a sense of fun about the whole thing . It never takes itself too seriously . Just let yourself go with the silliness . Another positive I feel compelled to mention are the outfits worn by Caroline Munro . Too bad she disappears for about of the movie . So in the end , the good and bad sort of cancel each other out and I'm left with a completely average movie . And that , at least in my way of rating movies , is just what a is ? an average movie .
Cardona Does Johnsontown	If you take a look at Rene Cardona Jr . ' s credits , you'll quickly discover that he jumped on every bandwagon that passed by . Tintoera is his Jaws " inspired " film . Cyclone is his cash-in on the disaster movie boom . The Bermuda Triangle is his link to the unexplained mysteries craze of the 70s . And I'm sure you can find similarities between Cardona's The Treasure of the Amazon and either a Hollywood movie like Romancing the Stone or a watered-down Italian cannibal film . With Guyana : Crime of the Century , Cardona wasn't trying to rip a movie , but instead choice to latch onto the coattails of one of the biggest news stories of the 70s ? Jim Jones and the People's Temple . Compared with Cardona's other films I've seen , Guyana : Crime of the Century comes off as a much more serious work . Cardona appears to be going for fewer of the exploitation elements he loaded his other films with and , instead , is going for something more true to life and realistic . Don't misunderstand , there are scenes of exploitation in Guyana : Crime of the Century , they are just not played to the max the way they are in something like Tintoera . Being based at least somewhat on an actual event , Cardona was handcuffed by the reality of what actually took place in the jungles of Guyana . As a result , this movie is not as " fun " as Cardona's other films . Much of the first of the film is very slow with little more to enjoy than the wild , crazed dialogues of the good reverend . The last does pick up the pace , culminating with a satisfactory finale that is very well done by Cardona's standards . It's a moving and fitting end to the film . In addition to comparing Guyana : Crime of the Century with his other works , I can't help but compare Cardona's movie with the 1980 TV movie Guyana Tragedy : The Story of Jim Jones . I haven't seen the TV movie in a decade or more , but I remember it being a better made film that probably sticks to the truth of what happened at Jonestown better than Cardona's movie . Also , the 1980 film stars Powers Boothe as Jim Jones . His portrayal of the crazed leader of the doomed cult is light-years ahead of Stuart Whitman's turn in the role . Boothe delivers an incredibly powerful ( pun not intended ) and believable performance . Speaking of Stuart Whitman , Guyana : Crime of the Century is filled with over-the-hill , past-their-prime actors in most of the major roles . Whitman was the youngest at 53 . Yvonne De Carlo was 57 . Gene Barry was 60 . John Ireland was 65 . And Joseph Cotton was the oldest at 74 . For Cotton , Guyana : Crime of the Century is about as far away from Citizen Kane as you can get .
" I hear some teenagers get a major rush out of stamp-collecting ! "	For my family's second official Family Movie Night , we went with Chicken Little . In the movie , Chicken Little is hit in the head and causes a great deal of panic and confusion in the town of Oakey Oak with his claim that the sky is falling . When it appears that it was nothing more than an acorn that hit Chicken Little , he becomes the laughing stock of the town . One year later , still attempting to redeem himself , fate strikes once again when Chicken Little is hit on the head . This time , however , he's got the evidence . Even so , is anyone really going to believe Chicken Little's story of an alien invasion ? Going into the movie I had read some of the negative reviews , but wasn't sure whether to believe them or not . I mean , this is Disney after all ? how bad can it be ? Well the answer is that while Chicken Little isn't the worst movie I've seen recently , it's got way too many problems to call it a winner . Calling it " mediocre " is about the best I can do . While there were a lot of problems I had with the movie , the biggest was with the plot . It just lays there ? lifeless . The movie gets off to a good start , but by the time Chicken Little wins the baseball game it becomes quickly apparent that the movie has nothing to offer . The movie's message is handled so ham-fisted that it puts a damper on the whole thing . And who decided to hire Garry Marshall to do the voice of Chicken Little's dad ? He's terrible . So I the end , as much as I enjoyed the animation , some of the set-pieces , Don Knotts , and some of the cute characters , they're not near enough to save Chicken Little from the dreaded , unexciting , and mundane rating . And for what it's worth , I'm not sure the movie did much better with my 5 year-old . If he likes a movie , he'll usually watch it again as soon as possible . It's been almost three days now and we've had no mention of a re-watch . Instead , he's back to watching Surf's Up .
Lee's best performance as Dracula ?	In the past , I've accused Jess Franco of losing focus about 10 minutes into his films . It's not unusual to see him stray from his subject for a few unnecessary close-ups of any random object or to include several minutes of what appears to be vacation footage he shot out of the window of a car . That's certainly not the case with Franco's Count Dracula . By Franco's standards , it's a very straight forward story . There are a number of other things to like about the movie . Excusing the Spain for England locations , the sets are wonderfully Spartan and very atmospheric . Bruno Nicolai's score is about as good as you'll find in any of Franco's efforts . But the highlight is the acting . Franco assembled one of the most acclaimed casts he ever worked with . Klaus Kinski , Herbert Lom , and Christopher Lee give the film immediate credibility . Lee's performance is the real standout . Of the numerous times he played Dracula , his work in Count Dracula just might be the best of his career . The supporting players , featuring the usual group of Franco regulars , give some of their best performances . But it's this straight forward approach used by Franco that contributes to the films downfall . Franco was attempting to film a fairly faithful adaptation of Bram Stoker's novel ( it was the only way he could get Lee to agree to play Dracula ) . And while he may have actually been more successful along that line than some of the other , better known Dracula films , unfortunately the end result is incredibly dull and lifeless . While the film gets off to a good start with Jonathan Harker's visit to Dracula's castle , things grind to a halt once Dracula reaches England . So even though Count Dracula may represent one of Franco's most competently directed films , the boredom factor is too high to rate the movie anything better than average .
I'm not sure what Disney was thinking with this one	- I'm not sure what Disney was thinking when they gave the " green light " to this film . Sure it looks good , but that's about it . The opening scenes are a thing of beauty with a dinosaur egg going through an amazing journey until coming to rest on an island of lemurs . But once you get past the look of the movie you realize how trite the story is . The thing I got out of it that disturbed me was that meat eaters are bad and vegetarians are good . Maybe I'm reading more into this than I should but with Disney's track record , I doubt it . - I bought this DVD for my 2 year old without knowing much about it . While he loves the dinosaurs , he has problems with some of the violence . It's one thing to have a character die in a movie aimed at children , it's another to see characters being eaten .
Deborah Walley is certainly no Sandra Dee	In many respects , Gidget Goes Hawaiian is a better movie than Gidget . Some of the comedy is actually funny , it's less sappy , and Carl Reiner is a much better father . Also there are fewer of the seemingly endless surfing scenes that make up almost half of Gidget's runtime . Unfortunately , however , not every aspect of Gidget Goes Hawaiian is better . The biggest and most obvious problem is Deborah Walley in the title role . In short , she's HORRIBLE ! I couldn't believe I found myself missing Sandra Dee . Dee possessed qualities ( bubbly , spunky , cute ) that are sadly missing from Walley . I could never get past her or her performance long enough to enjoy what the film had to offer .
Not as advertised	- I had been intrigued by Shikoku for a while . The plot sounded interesting and the movie featured Chiaki Kuriyama ( Gogo Yubari in Kill Bill Vol . 1 ) , so I finally decided to give it a chance . The summary on the back of the DVD case ( " Hinako returns to her childhood home on the island of Shikoku after many years . She learns that her childhood friend Sayori has passed away and the Sayori's mother , a local priestess , has slowly gone insane with grief . When strange things begin to happen on the island , Hinako and old friend Funiya learn that Sayori's mother has spent ears conducting a pilgrimage around each of the island's 88 temples in reverse order , which , according to folklore , is supposed to release the spirits of the dead and turn the island into the ' land of the dead ' " ) , however , is very misleading . - Had the movie actually followed this plot description , Shikoku might have been a much better movie . Instead , we are treated to one of the dullest , most inane love stories I've had the misfortune to see ( I suppose a love-triangle story would be a more appropriate description ) . What little horror there is in Shikoku comes from the fact that one of the participants in the love-triangle is dead . But , any real scenes of horror are too few and far between . And the other characters ' reactions to the moments of horror are totally unbelievable . Once the two non-dead characters see the ghost of their dead friend , do they seem alarmed , surprised , or frightened ? - NO ! Based on their reactions you would think that seeing ghosts was just another part of their incredibly boring existence . - I will admit , however , that there are parts of Shikoku that I enjoyed . Regardless of whether you're a fan of the new wave of Asian horror or not , it would be hard for anyone to disagree with how beautiful most of these movies are . Despite it's flaws , Shikoku is another beautiful Asian horror movie . And if you're a fan of Ju-on style horror , some of the movie might appeal to you . The few subtle moments of horror are beautifully filmed and genuinely creepy . Finally , although it's underdeveloped , the whole subplot of the mother trying to bring her dead daughter back to life is interesting . There's a good , entertaining movie here somewhere . It's too bad we didn't see it .
Godzilla it ain't	Gorgo follows the basic plot premise laid out by the much better known Godzilla . A giant monster is awakened from the depths of the ocean and begins destroying everything in its path . The difference , and this is a matter of personal preference , is that Toho did the giant rampaging monster better than anyone . For a lack of a better word , the Toho films are more " fun " . I will give the makers of Gorgo credit , though , for the special effects . They are some of the best this sub-genre has to offer . As for the rest of the film , it's lacking in a lot of areas . The acting is key among them . These people look like their sleepwalking through the film . They look bored to tears . A little energy on the part of the cast would have gone a long way to making Gorgo a better movie .
" What's the matter with a broad in the daylight ? "	This is not an exact quote , but I read somewhere on the internet that Dean Martin's portrayal of Matt Helm could make Perry Como look hyper . The Ambushers is a great example of this . Martin literally sleepwalks his way through this one . He's in very little hurry to get anywhere other than to the nearest bar . And , if you look close , you'll notice that Martin used a stunt double for even the most routine of actions . I suppose that if the activity involved anything more strenuous than lifting a glass of scotch , Dino wasn't up for it . Even though I had a decent enough time watching The Ambushers , I can't rate it any higher because of some of the ridiculousness of the plot . A flying saucer ? I'm sorry but I'm not buying it . And where did the writers dream up the idea that a man couldn't fly the thing because the electro-magnetism ( or some such nonsense ) was deadly to males ? I realize that the Matt Helm movies are based in what is essentially an alternate reality , but come on . The implausibility of the whole thing really took away from my enjoyment . The highlight of the movie for me had to be Senta Berger . Wow , what a woman ! Some of the outfits she wears throughout The Ambushers ( and really those worn by most of the female cast members ) are just too much .
Maybe I should re-watch this one now that I know what to expect .	Giacomo Solaris ( Franco Nero ) has just made a film about the hypocrisy in the judicial system focusing on one particular judge and his ties with the Mafia . As life often imitates art , the real life judge he used as a basis for his character is brutally murdered just as in his movie . Solaris begins to weave his way through a web of corrupt politicians , mobsters , and those with a grudge against the judge to find the killer . My rating for How to Kill a Judge is probably not a very good indicator as to the quality of this film . It's not that How to Kill a Judge is all that bad or anything , it's just that I was hoping for a different movie . How to Kill a Judge is a fairly entertaining drama with interesting characters , good locations , and a nice twist at the end . Franco Nero is as solid as ever and his scenes with Francoise Fabian are the standout moments of the film . There's some real chemistry between the two . The simplicity of the ending was refreshing , especially after having watched Franco go through the complicated and tangled web to reach the finale . But , as I said , this is not the movie I wanted . I was hoping for an over-the-top polizia thriller similar to something like Syndicate Sadists or Almost Human . Instead of an action packed cop film , How to Kill a Judge is so dialogue heavy that it often gets dull . And , it doesn't help anything that the movie goes off in several different directions without any real purpose . A tighter script and a little more action would have gone a long way to making How to Kill a Judge the movie I was looking for .
" I know something terrible happened , something even more terrible than suicide or murder "	Following the death of his mother , Philippe Delambre ( Brett Halsey ) decides to continue the work his father began 15 years previous . His father's experiments in matter transference ended disastrously . Philippe promises his uncle , Francois Delambre ( Vincent Price ) , he'll be more careful and not make the same mistake that took his father's life . But as luck would have it , Philippe is destined to the same horrible fate . Through a one in a million accident , he's turned into a half fly , half human . Though he wasn't able to help Philippe's father , maybe this time Uncle Francois can find the fly and save Philippe . Return of the Fly is a quick and cheap follow-up to The Fly . Though there are things to enjoy , it's something of a disappointment given the original . The sequel lacks the mystery of the first movie . In this one , we are expected to just accept the whole transference process and that a man can be turned into a fly . No suspense , no atmosphere ? nothing . And what about the son Philippe meeting the same fate as his father ? I called it a million to one accident ? well it's probably more like a trillion to one . Can't the Delambre family get some pest strips or hire an exterminator or something ? The notion of a fly getting in the transference machine twice is ridiculous . There are other problems ( the fly special effects and the theft subplot for example ) , but these are the two things that bothered me the most . Oh , but it's not all bad . The acting is okay . I've never been much of a fan of Brett Halsey , but here he's actually good . Vincent Price is always enjoyable even when , as here , he doesn't have much of anything to do . Also , the scenes of the fly stalking his prey in the funeral home are effective . I'll admit that I jumped every time he popped out of the shadows . Finally , despite the movie's problems and shortcomings , it's still fairly fun . As I've written any number of times now , entertainment is the most important thing when it comes to a movie for me . And while I wasn't bowled over or anything by Return of the Fly , I still had a decent time with it .
Lugosi Grows a Beard	The basic story of the Ape Man is straight forward . Lugosi plays a scientist messing around with nature ( these guys never learn ) . Through some experimentation he has turned himself into a half-ape ( he had a heavy beard and walked stooped over ) . He , along with his gorilla assistant , must kill to get the spinal fluid he needs to reverse his previous experiment . The Ape Man can be fairly entertaining if you don't take it too seriously . Lugosi is fine as the scientist - sometimes funny ( as when trying to subdue his gorilla ) and sometimes menacing ( as when threatening the doctor who has been helping him ) . Henry Hall as the doctor and Minerva Urecal as Lugosi's sister are also worth mentioning . Typical of comedy / horror films from this period , some of the jokes work while some fall flat . Most of the jokes are delivered by Wallace Ford ( Ford was also the comic relief in The Mummy's Hand and The Mummy's Tomb ) . The movie was made by Monogram and is a typical Monogram cheap-B-quickie .
How can a movie this bad be so much fun ?	Some may see the rating I've given Massacre in Dinosaur Valley and think I've lost my mind . I'm fully aware that a may be too high . In all honesty , the movie is horrible . Tarantini has crammed the film with every exploitation element and clich you can think of . Massacre in Dinosaur Valley lacks originality , any semblance of good acting , and anything approaching taste . Technically , the movie doesn't fair much better with some really bad looking special effects and poor editing . But if you can get past all the film's shortcomings ( as I did ) , it's a lot of fun for fans of cheese-filled , Italian exploitation type movies . Maybe I was just in the right frame of mind , but I had a great time with it . Actually , my biggest complaint with the film has nothing to do with the list of previously mentioned problems . My biggest gripe is the " look " of the cannibals . If you've seen Cannibal Holocaust , the Granddaddy of cannibal films , you'll understand what I mean . The cannibal tribes in Cannibal Holocaust look authentic ( at least to my untrained eyes ) . They're dirty , unkempt , and " wild " looking . The cannibals in Massacre in Dinosaur Valley , on the other hand , look like actors . They look like they showered , shaved , and had a fresh haircut on the way to the set . In addition , the cannibal village in Cannibal Holocaust is something completely alien to our modern society . It fits the look of the cannibals . Here , the cannibal village reminded me of one of the headhunter sets from Gilligan's Island . A little more authenticity would have really helped Massacre in Dinosaur Valley .
" By this time next year pigeons are going to be crapping on statues of you across the whole damn state of Nebraska . "	The German's hatch a plan to kidnap Churchill . Using a local citizen sympathetic to the German cause and an IRA operative , the Nazis move a group of specially trained commandos into England disguised as Polish paratroopers . But their cover is quickly blown while on maneuvers when one of the German soldier's true identity is revealed after he jumps into a canal to save a little girl . It's up to some U . S . National Guard troops stationed nearby to root out the Nazis and save Churchill . It's hard for me to put a finger on it , but there's just something about The Eagle Has Landed that's not quite right . I've narrowed it down to a couple of things that really distract from my overall enjoyment of the movie . The first is obvious ? Larry Hagman's performance as Col . Pitts . To be blunt , he's terrible . For whatever reason , John Sturges had Hagman play his character as comic relief . It's completely out of place and really harms the mood of the movie . A " straight " performance would have been much more preferable . The second thing I find distracting about the movie is very difficult to explain , but it has something to do with the overall look of the film . Other than a few shots of gore as the American soldiers are being hit by bullets , much of the movie has a cheap , made-for-TV look to it that also takes away from the tone of the movie . It's not as " gritty " looking ( for lack of a better word ) as it should be . The battle scene doesn't look as real as it should . The soldiers look like actors . That's not to say that I don't find things enjoyable about The Eagle Has Landed . Other than Hagman , the acting is first-rate . Michael Caine , Donald Sutherland , Robert Duvall , and Donald Pleasence give terrific performances . The plot is an interesting idea although I would have preferred more on the planning of the kidnapping . Not being much of a student of history I have no idea how much is true , but it certainly seems feasible as presented . And finally , I really enjoy the Nazi operative played by Jean Marsh . The look on her face after her cover is blown and the local priest confronts her is priceless . It's a nice moment of acting .
If you're able to look past the shortcomings , 1990 : The Bronx Warriors can be fun .	I'd be lying if I said 1990 : The Bronx Warriors was a good movie , because its not . In fact , the rating I've given it is probably too high . But there's a certain amount of fun to be had with the movie . It's one part Jack Hill's The Warriors , one part John Carpenter's Escape from New York , a sprinkling of the Hell's Angels , a dash of bizarre costume design , and just a pinch of homo-eroticism all covered in Italian cheese . 1990 : The Bronx Warriors unashamedly rips-off just about everything . I'm not sure what it is about the movie I like , but I found myself oddly enjoying much of it . Maybe it's the overacting , scene-chewing Vic Marrow , maybe it's the bad-ass Fred Williamson , or maybe it's the bizarre set-pieces like the one featuring the song-and-dance street gang . Whatever " it " is , 1990 : The Bronx Warriors has " it " . Even though I had fun with the movie , there are too many problems and weaknesses to just ignore them . Beyond the less than original screenplay , the movie has other problems . Chief among them is the " acting " on the part of the male and female leads . Actually , I'm not sure " acting " is the right word for what these two were doing . They're as stiff as boards . The scenes of the pair in an emotional moment are all but laugh out loud funny . Other weaknesses include ridiculously large plot holes , bad fight choreography , and unnatural dialogue . But if you're able to look past these shortcomings , 1990 : The Bronx Warriors can be fun .
In search of fertility	In the sub-genre of post-apocalyptic action films , 2019 : After the Fall of New York is pretty much an average example . The plot makes sense within the framework of the film and provides the film's heroes with a legitimate reason to go on their mission into enemy territory . In some of these films , the heroes go on these missions for the most ridiculous of reasons with a totally unbelievable object / device / rock / etc . as their goal . The idea of tracking down the last fertile woman on the planet to use in repopulating the planet is better than most . I'm not going to go so far as to call it an intelligently written script , but I've seen a whole lot worse . As I wrote previously , 2019 : After the Fall of New York is an average example of the 1980s post-apocalyptic films . As most all of these films take their " inspiration " from The Road Warrior and Escape from New York , none of them stray very far from the norm . 2019 : After the Fall of New York has the same bad special effects , the same Flock of Seagulls wardrobe , and the same perfectly chiseled , but ultimately dull , hero you can find in any of these movies . But , even with the predictability and other shortcomings , it's a fun watch .
I really wanted to like this movie	I really wanted to like Yo-Yo Girl Cop and , for a while anyway , I thought I was going to . To begin with , just take a look at the DVD cover ? a Japanese school-girl complete with uniform and a lethal yo-yo striking a pose in front of a fiery explosion . How awesome is that ? And the plot sounded very promising : Saki Asamiya ( Aya Matsuura is terrific in the role ) , a very troubled and violent teen , is hand-picked by a secret government agency to infiltrate a group of would-be high school terrorists . The group has already killed at least one other agent . They tied her hands together , strapped a bomb to her , and sent her out into the crowded streets . Nice , huh ? On the group's website , they've started a 72 hour countdown clock , but a countdown to what ? It's Saki Asamiya's job to find out ? and do it before time runs out . The film gets off to a great start with the whole explosion in the streets scene , Saki's fight on her first day at school , and a chase through a crowded mall . Add to that a funky vibe that runs through much of the movie , the incredibly stylized look , and a nice score , the makings were here for a real winner . Unfortunately , Yo-Yo Girl Cop abandons the promised action and all but slams on the brakes in favor of melodramatic , teen-angst clap-trap during the second act . It was enough to make me want to hurl . Life's tough ? get over it already and get back to the yo-yo butt-kicking ! The movie does redeem itself somewhat in the finale as Saki and her female nemesis don leather outfits for the highly anticipated all-girl yo-yo fight to the death . As cool as that may be , it comes way too late to save Yo-Yo Girl Cop from being anything other than average at best .
" Jason's body has disappeared from the morgue . "	I know there are fans out there that feel the fourth installment in the Friday the 13th series is the best . I don't happen to agree . While the first three movies weren't necessarily groundbreaking in their innovation , there were moments in each that we had not seen before ? at least in a Friday the 13th movie . By the time Paramount rolled out Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter in 1984 , the 80s slasher-boom was in full swing . It was all but impossible to do anything new . Chapter 4 is one big clich of the slasher genre and a rehash of everything that came before . This one follows the standard formula to a T - A group of idiotic kids go to the woods and for the first of the film , we watch them behave like complete morons . Suddenly , and with very little build-up or suspense , Jason shows up and kills everyone in sight . In the end , the one person who seems most incapable of doing so " kills " Jason . The End . I think I wrote something just like this for the other Friday the 13th movies I've written about . So far , all I've done is blast Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter . To be fair , it's actually not that bad as far as these films go . Most of the credit for this should go to Tom Savini . His special effects are top notch and worth the price of admission . One of my favorite kill scenes in the movie occurs early on with the hospital attendant in the morgue . That head snap is nicely done .
It might be good	The Black Raven is another movie that IMDb has incorrectly listed as a " Horror / Mystery " . " Mystery " - I'll give you . " Horror " - None that I saw . The basic story : Several varied travelers are forced to stay at an inn by a thunderstorm that has washed out the roads and bridges . One of the guests has $50 , 000 that he stole from the bank where he worked . When one of the guests is murdered , it seems that everybody had a motive . And to complicate matters , the $50 , 000 is missing . Who did it ? You'll have to watch to find out . The movie stars George Zucco and Glenn Strange . Both were veterans of both B-pictures and mainstream horror . The performances of Zucco and Strange , as well as most of the rest of the cast , is superior to what you normally find in a PRC production . The film has tons of atmosphere . The big , dark inn , the thunderstorm , the hiding places , and the characters ' motivations create a terrific atmosphere for a mystery thriller . The inn , with it's many guest rooms and cellar makes a great setting for a murder . The problem I had while watching The Black Raven wasn't so much with the movie , but with the DVD I have . The Alpha DVD is VERY dark in some places . It's all but impossible to tell what is going on . The worst is that one of the dark spots occurs during the final events of the movie leading up to the killer being revealed . What a shame , because otherwise this would have been a highly enjoyable little murder mystery . For what it's worth , I'll give the movie a . It would probably be a point higher if I had been able to see exactly what was happening . Also , I'll give the Alpha DVD a . I know this is an old film that has probably been given very little care , but the transfer was unacceptable even by Alpha's standards .
What's John Huston doing in this movie ?	It's official - I can't seem to get enough of Rene Cardona , Jr . ' s brand of movie-making . When I got my hands on The Bermuda Triangle , I was expecting the usual stuff ? planes and ships disappearing at sea , unknown lights , and the ocean changing colors . While The Bermuda Triangle gives you all this , Cardona has stuffed the movie with so much more including : a possessed doll , a girl who talks to dead people , sharks , underwater earthquakes , parrot attacks , hurricanes , and more . None of it is fleshed-out very well , but boy is it fun . Please don't misunderstand ? The Bermuda Triangle isn't really a very good movie . The acting is bad , the dubbing is horrible ( people in normal conversation often have the same tone in their voice usually reserved for a radio announcer ) , the special effects are weak , and the story is often predictable . To top it off , Cardona feels the need as he does in some of his other movies to show sharks being slaughtered . But none of this kept me from having a good time with The Bermuda Triangle .
After a terrific start , the movie kind of fizzles	A curse hangs over the Hammond family . For years , the family has been haunted by a creature that's believed to be responsible for several deaths . When Oliver Hammond doesn't return home when his sister , Helga , thinks he should have , she becomes increasingly worried . Her fears are compounded by a strange sound coming from the cliffs not far away . It's the sound of a wolf , only deeper and richer . And , it's the sound she fears the most ? the sound of death . What a disappointment ! While my rating isn't all that low , after the first ten minutes , I had high hopes for this one . The Undying Monster begins like it might just be one of the best horror movies ever made . A creepy rambling house , a dark night , a spooked Great Dane , a race along a narrow mountainside road , and the howl of a wolf ? what a start ! But then the plot begins to kick in and things really start to drop off . The movie almost seems to lose its way as it limps to its less than satisfactory conclusion . For example , Scotland Yard is called in and their investigation takes up at least of the movie . And what does it lead to ? Nothing . At least nothing that has much of a bearing the film's finale . What a waste ! Technically , the film is amazing . The highlights include excellent lighting , wonderful cinematography , terrifically rich sets , and nice special effects . Likewise , the acting is also strong point of the movie . With one exception , everyone involved does a fantastic job , none more so than Halliwell Hobbs as the butler Walton and Heather Angel as Helga . The exception is James Ellison . I'm not even sure what he's doing in a very British movie like The Undying Monster . His manner , not to mention his American accent , do not " fit " a Scotland Yard inspector .
Not as good as it could have been	- The story of a group of animals from a zoo in New York who want to find the Wild . With the help ( or possibly in spite of ) some penguins , they manage to crash on Madagascar - the Wild . It's not long before their natural instincts start to show themselves . Can a zebra and a lion coexist when one of them is hungry ? - Very hit or miss . Had the movie focused on the penguins , it might have been a winner . Instead , the " stars " are Alex the Lion and Marty the Zebra as voiced by Ben Stiller and Chris Rock . Is there a more annoying person on the planet who thinks he's funny than Stiller ? I just don't get it . I find him dull and unfunny . Chris Rock is okay , he just seems out of place in this kind of movie .
" Honest to goodness it's the absolute ultimate ! "	I don't think you can get much further away from the stuff I usually watch like Cannibal Holocaust or Zombi 2 than Sandra Dee and Gidget . It's impossible not to enjoy Dee's performance . She's bubbly , spunky , and cute . What's not to like ? Overall , Gidget is a sweet little movie that , for the most part , is entertaining . On the downside , far too often the sweetness turns into sappiness ? something I cannot stomach . Gidget is definitely a product of another time . Incidents that would automatically mean " sex " in a film made today are quite innocent and harmless in Gidget . A girl telling her mother that she wants to feel like a woman only means that she wants to fall in love and have a boyfriend . And watching with jaded 21st Century eyes , it's hard to imagine The Big Kahuna not being brought up on charges .
Despite its shortcomings , its a " must see " for krimi fans	While I enjoy watching these German-made krimis , I've yet to find one that I just love and can recommend without hesitation . That holds true with Fellowship of the Frog . The best I can say is that it's about average . The plot is twisted and nonsensical like you'll find in most krimis . I won't even attempt to go into it other than to say it involves a masked criminal known as The Frog who , with his seemingly endless supply of flunkies , is responsible for a string of robberies and murders in London . For reasons only he knows , the Frog seems to have set his sights on a young woman named Ella Bennet and kidnaps her brother Ray to get to her . It's up to Scotland Yard and an amateur detective named Richard Gordon to put a stop to this devious criminal . There are several things in Fellowship of the Frog to enjoy . The film gets off to a nice start . It's appropriately dark and foggy with the requisite smoky ( though unmemorable ) jazz score playing in the background all helping to create a nice sinister atmosphere . The movie features a couple of faces familiar to even a novice fan of krimis like myself ? Joachim Fuchsberger and Eddi Aren't ( I'm sorry about the apostrophe , but the IMDb spell-checker seems intent on putting it there ) . While both are quite good , I especially enjoyed Aren't's unusually quiet performance as the all-knowing butler James . However when the second act begins , most of the good feelings I was having toward Fellowship of the Frog came to an end . To call the second act slow would be a gross understatement as the movie all but grinds to a halt . I had to go back and play a couple of scenes over to make sure I hadn't missed anything as my mind wandered . Fortunately , my persistence was rewarded with a delicious twist near the end that's as shocking as any I've seen recently . It almost saves Fellowship of the Frog from mediocrity . One final note , I understand from doing a little research that this movie is notable for being the first of the Edgar Wallace based krimis produced in the 50s and 60s . Because of that fact , and regardless of the film's shortcomings , Fellowship of the Frog is necessary viewing for anyone calling themselves a fan of these movies .
Lugosi , Karloff , and Lorre	IMDb lists this film as a Comedy / Horror / Musical / Mystery . While it does have elements of all four genres , none are portrayed very well . The comedy is weak . The horror is almost non-existent . While there are musical numbers , none is very memorable . And the mystery could be solved by a first grader . Sounds pretty bad , huh ? With all this having been said , I still enjoy this movie . Why ? Boris Karloff , Bela Lugosi , and Peter Lorre make their only joint appearance in a film ( that I'm aware of ) . Each provides a level of excitement and enjoyment to what would otherwise be a very forgettable movie . In the film , they are plotting together to scheme a rich heiress out of her fortune . It's up to Kay Kyser and his band to save the day . The plot involves psychics , poison darts , ghosts , trap doors , and hidden passageways . If you're a fan of Lugosi , Karloff , and Lorre , You'll Find Out can be fun .
And I so wanted to embrace this movie	Japan and the rest of the world are under the threat of attack from the mysterious underwater kingdom known as Mu . Their plan is to turn the land into their colonies and enslave the surface dwellers . The people of Mu fear only one thing ? Atragon , a super-secret ( so secret in fact that no one knows about it ) flying submarine that has the potential to defeat the Mu . But Atragon is being built by a Japanese officer from WWII who is unaware of his countries surrender . He's reluctant to use his new submarine for anything but the greater glory of Japan . But when the Mu kidnap his daughter , he softens his stance and finally agrees lead the charge against the Mu . Overall , I can't help but be very disappointed by Atragon . The movie sounded so good ? a flying submarine , a mysterious underwater kingdom called Mu , and a giant snakelike creature named Manda . What could go wrong ? Well , the plot is what went wrong . Nothing much happens during the first  of the movie . I don't know how many times I found myself waking up and reversing the movie . There's not enough flying submarine , Mu kingdom , or Manda to make Atragon exciting . It's not until the finale that something exciting finally happens . And it's a shame because I find I usually go for the more offbeat of the Toho movies that stray from the usual Godzilla storyline . For example , movies like Matango or The Mysterians are among my favorite Toho films . And Atragon had Ishiro Honda directing and a cast that included several familiar and solid actors . Atragon also features the standout Toho miniatures I always enjoy . But in my opinion , everyone involved was letdown at every opportunity by a less than stellar screenplay . I just expected ( or at least hoped for ) better .
It's kinda like Jaws , but in the snow . . . and on a mountain . . . and with fur . . .	In Snowbeast , a town is preparing for its annual Winter Carnival only to find it threatened by some sort of killer snow monster . You don't have to look too hard to find the similarities between Snowbeast and Jaws . They're everywhere - from canceling the Winter Carnival vs . the 4th of July celebration in Jaws to the cover-up on the part of the mayor / sheriff , the comparisons are endless . It should go without saying that Snowbeast is in no way near as good as Jaws , but it does have its moments . Chief among the positives are some incredibly creepy and effective scenes when the titular Snowbeast is stalking its intended prey . An isolated , snow-covered mountainside can become a very ominous place when the quiet is broken by the blood curdling roar of the Snowbeast . Freaky stuff ! Unfortunately , this being a made-for-TV movie , the film cuts out a lot of the actual attack scenes and we're left with a bloody snow aftermath . As you might expect from my rating , however , I did find a lot to fault in Snowbeast . First , this being a made-for-TV movie , there's far too much unnecessary and forced sentimentality . There are several seemingly endless scenes between the movie's hero , Gar Seberg ( played by the unmemorable Bo Svenson ) , and his wife about some meaningless back-story that had no bearing on anything in the movie . Ugh ! Second , the Snowbeast wouldn't have killed near as many people if they had just kept going down the mountain . One of the funniest moments involved a ski rescuer who had searched the mountain for hours without incident . However , the moment he got near the Snowbeast happened to be the precise moment he decides to do a face-plant in the snow . Could this clumsy oaf have made it any easier on the Snowbeast ? It's because of these negatives that I can only rate this movie a .
Middle-of-the-Road WIP	- At first glance , it appears that Roger Corman was trying something new and different with The Arena . But once you get into it , it's easy to see that the movie is yet another Women in Prison film , albeit in a different setting . As far as WIPs go , it's middle-of-the-road - some of the movie works while while some of it doesn't . - There are a couple of things that The Arena has going for it . First and most obvious is Pam Grier and Margaret Markov . These two seem to have a natural chemistry . The scenes with both actresses are the highlight of the movie . After watching Grier and Markov together , I really want to see Black Mama , White Mama more than ever . Another thing The Arena has going for it is a sense of fun . If you don't take it too seriously , there's a lot of silly , almost cheesy fun to be had . - Unfortunately , not everything in the movie works . I'll start with the plot . Actually lack of a plot would be a better description . Women are kidnapped , taken to Rome to serve as slaves , forced to fight , and try to escape . There's absolutely no character development and no reason to care about most of them . Another area where The Arena doesn't hold up to close scrutiny is the fight scenes . These scenes are so obviously choreographed and staged that nothing looks natural . Usually I enjoy seeing Pam Grier kicking butt , but here it's not as good as I had hoped .
" Headless horsemen , horseless headsmen "	What a disappointment . With a cast that features Peter Cushing , Herbert Lom , Patrick Magee , and Stephanie Beacham , I expected a whole lot more . The film gets off to a great start . Within the first 10 minutes , we see body parts coming out of portraits , a severed hand creeping across the floor , and a new bride attacked in her bed by an eyeless man . Unfortunately after the great start , the movie settles into one of the most ho-hum , mundane stories imaginable . A friend of mine described it as " comfortable " . I suppose I agree to a certain degree , but comfort isn't always that exciting . The mystery behind what's going on is annoyingly hinted at without much in the way of clues to help figure it out . And when the clues do finally appear , the storyline does a 180 degree turn and becomes too predictable . It doesn't help matters that Cushing doesn't show up for the first hour , Lom has about 10 minutes of screen time ( unless you count the extraordinary amount of time his portrait is shown ) , and Magee is on screen less than Lom . All you're left with is an incredible ineffective male lead and a constantly screaming Beacham . Unless you're idea of a good movie is listening to Beacham caterwauling with impunity , it's difficult to really enjoy And Now the Screaming Starts .
" These white wall tires , they say look at me , here I am , Love me . "	It was inevitable . The string of winners churned out by Pixar and Disney had to end sometime . And it ends with Cars . That's not to say there aren't moments in the film to enjoy . The beginning and ending of the film are great . As long as the action is centered on the racetrack , Cars is good and entertaining . Unfortunately , there's that whole middle hour or so where things get incredibly dull . After the slam-bang start , the next hour is talk , talk , and more talk . I took my three year-old to see the movie and both he and I were squirming about half way through . I had to bribe him to get him to stay through the finish . The problem with much of the film is that it's so predictable . There are no surprises anywhere in the bland and tired script . I'll give the makers of the film credit for one thing ? Cars looks good . There was a time when I thought Toy Story was the be all , end all of computer animation . I couldn't have been more wrong . Cars looks far better in comparison . Finally , one of the great things about the Disney films of the past is how well they have withstood the test of time . I wonder if some of these newer Pixar films will do the same . For example , Cars features Darrell Waltrip doing the same lame shtick he uses when broadcasting a race of television . How well is " Boogity Boogity Boogity ! Let's go racin ' ! " going to stand-up ?
Early Sonny Chiba	When two reporters investigate the strange occurrences during a Navy submarine test , they become the prisoners of a strange underwater race of beings . They are taken to a secret laboratory where they discover a mad scientist who is using these creatures in his plot to take over the world . The reporters must free themselves and save the world . The movie stars a very young Sonny Chiba as one of the reporters . While he is a far cry from the butt-kicking machine he would later become , his screen presence is undeniable . The other reporter is played by Peggy Neal . God , is there a more annoying woman on the planet . The seaweed in the movie had more talent . While the movie features a good number of kitschy moments ( the monsters being the prime example ) , overall it's far too slow for me to completely endorse . There are too many scenes of the two reporters swimming underwater or investigating the secret lab where literally nothing happens . The pair just wander around doing nothing . A little more action would have made things much better .
One of the weaker A & C films	- With Costello poising as a big game hunter and guide , the boys tag along on an African expedition supposedly looking for a giant , undiscovered ape . What they don't realize is that the story of the ape is a hoax . The expedition is really searching for diamonds . Along the way , the boys run into crocodiles , cannibals , lions , a gorilla , a giant ape , and every other sort of trouble one could find in the jungles of Africa . - There are a lot of Abbott and Costello movies I enjoy - Africa Screams is not one of them . There aren't any of those Abbott and Costello " bits " that I enjoy so much . In addition , much of the movie feels too contrived . Take the gorilla that Costello accidentally saves from a trap . I realize that these movies are corny and in no way resemble real live , but the fact that the gorilla hangs around to help Costello out of one jam after the next is just too much for me to take . - There are several familiar faces in the supporting cast - Joe Beseer and Shemp Howard being the most recognizable . Shemp's character ( an almost blind killer ) gets old very fast . But , Beseer steals almost every scene in which he appears . My favorite is a very small moment where Beseer interrupts Abbot and Costello by running into a tent to get cup after cup of water . When the boys finally ask him why he needs so much water , he responds by telling them that his tent is on fire . Classic moment as far as I'm concerned . - By the way , I picked-up a copy with a decent transfer on one of those budget DVDs for $1 .
Don't miss Tacey and her bouffant	A jewel heist is going just about as planned until the loot ends up in the back of a pick-up truck . Unaware of what he's carrying , the unsuspecting driver of the truck takes the fortune in jewels home with him . His young daughter finds the treasure and stuffs it into her doll . Unfortunately for this suburban family , one of the robbers is also a killer and he'll do anything to get his hands on the jewels . I'd be stretching the truth if I said Psycho a Go-Go was a good movie . It's got far too many problems to be " good " . Spotty acting , giant plot holes , bad editing , and poor sound are among the many problems you'll find in the movie . But the film's biggest weakness can be traced directly to its director ? Al Adamson . Adamson is responsible for some of the worst , albeit entertaining , movies made in the 60s and 70s . In Psycho a Go-Go , Adamson's biggest sin is losing focus of what's going on . Too often , he lets the movie grind to a halt before going on to the next set-piece . Stronger direction and better pacing would have made a world of difference in the movie . But the movie isn't without its strong points . Chief among them ( and I'm not really sure how to put this ) , the film is just whacked-out enough to be fun despite itself . From the go-go dancers at the beginning , cool music choices , a coherent and interesting plot ( yes , an Al Adamson movie with a plot I found interesting ) , and a prolonged chase through the snow , Psycho a Go-Go is at least worth a watch . There are also a couple of songs performed by Tacey Robbins with The Vendells that are almost worth the price of admission alone . The opening number , My L . A . , is especially catchy . Finally , even though I called the acting spotty , the movie is not without at least one standout performance . Roy Morton plays the menacing killer to perfection .
Franco's Spy Film	- Since I recently watched Mario Bava's Danger Diabolik , I had an urge to see some other , lesser known spy movies . This is Jess Franco's attempt at the genre and he almost pulls it off . If it weren't for some lapses in action ( and logic ) this one would have been very good . But far too often , nothing much of interest is going on . In a typical James Bond movie , there are many instances where the action stops to further the plot . In The Girl from Rio , these stops in the action do nothing to advance the story . They are just there . - Franco probably had one of the bigger " name " casts in The Girl from Rio that he ever worked with . Shirley Eaton , from Goldfinger , is the villainous Sumuru . George Sanders , who I always get a kick out of watching , is very funny as the equally villainous Sir Masius . The biggest problem with the casting is Richard Wyler as the films hero . He's not interesting enough to carry the part . - Having watched a few Franco movies over the past few years , The Girl from Rio is decidedly tame . While the movie has its moments , the usual Franco sleaze is not evident . Too bad - it might have made some of the non-action moments more tolerable .
The " Priest with a Problem " didn't work for me	I haven't seen many episodes of Combat ! yet , but of the handful I have seen , this is my least favorite . After a prolonged sequence of stock war footage , the episode gets off to a good start . The guys walking down the road and running into a squad of Nazis was quite exciting . But things go downhill from there , especially when Jeff Hunter shows up . I never bought his " Priest with a Problem " . It just didn't seem real . And once the guys reach the village , things grind to a halt . Nothing happens . And how convenient was it that Caje , the only French speaker in the bunch , wasn't with them when they needed someone to speak to the French priest ? Overall , I've enjoyed my experiences thus far with Combat . I just hope I don't run into any more episodes like this one .
I had fun with it regardless of how bad it really is	A photographer and model are flown to a new resort hotel in the middle of the jungle to shoot some publicity photos . The hotel is owned by a ruthless developer who appears to have little regard for the environment or the people surrounding his paradise . He has hired many members of a local tribe to work for him in his hotel . But what the developer hasn't counted on is that the land Paradise House sits on is sacred to the tribe . It's the home of their giant alligator god , Kroona . After the model goes missing , the photographer finds it difficult to convince anyone that something is wrong . Has the model become another sacrifice to Kroona ? The Big Alligator River is a mish-mash of ideas from a lot of other movies . The most obvious influence comes from Jaws . Martino admits on the DVD that Jaws was the inspiration behind this movie . The scenes of kicking legs in the water being stalked by a POV shot or of a large unseen creature attacking a boat or of the alligator's inevitable demise are almost direct rip-offs of Jaws . Among the other influences I noticed was King Kong . A woman being tied sacrificially to a wooden raft is very reminiscent of Fay Wray's plight . As for the alligator , it hardly comes across as realistic . Instead , it looks almost like a stiff rubber child's toy . Victims must remain virtually immobile if the alligator is to get his mouth around their bodies . In recent reviews I've read of Jaws , I've noticed more and more complaints about how " fake " the shark looks . I would advise anyone who feels this way to steer clear of Kroona from The Big Alligator River . Beyond the bad special effects , The Big Alligator River features a less than stellar storyline ( it drags in many places ) , generally poor acting ( there are exceptions of course ) , and just plain silly dialogue . But given these weaknesses I can't bring myself to rate this movie any lower . I had too much fun with it and will eventually watch it again . Despite the flaws , I found it to be good cheesy fun . It might not be everyone's cup of tea , but it's mine . On the positive side , The Big Alligator River has one of the best , most enjoyable set-pieces I've seen in a while . The scene where many of the hotel guests are trapped in the water between the alligator on one side and a group of natives throwing flaming spears at anyone attempting to escape on the other side is remarkably effective . Pick your poison ? being chomped by an alligator or being shish-kabobed by the natives . It's the definite highlight of the movie for me .
" That place - Jamaica Inn . It's got a bad name . It's not healthy , that's why . There's queer things goes on there . "	Jamaica Inn is easily the weakest Alfred Hitchcock film I've yet seen . Actually , Jamaica Inn isn't so much a Hitchcock film as it is a Charles Laughton film . Now I generally enjoy Laughton's brand of acting . In fact , I rank his performance in The Island of Lost Souls as one of the all-time best performances in a horror movie . But in Jamaica Inn , his overacting , scene-chewing performance is too much . Although there are a few scenes with Laughton I enjoy , particularly early in the movie before we discover his character's true nature , he becomes something of a joke - a giant buffoon sucking whatever atmosphere and drama the film had . His over-the-top characterization is out of place with the other elements in the film . Hitchcock was , however , effective in creating tension and atmosphere in the scenes without Laughton . There's a particularly nice scene early on where our two heroes , played by Maureen O'Hara and Robert Newton , are trapped in a cave . Or the scene near the end where O'Hara finds herself at the mercy of the band of cutthroats whose plan she has thwarted . In these instances , Hitchcock creates real tension . But of course it's not long before Laughton enters the picture to steal the moment away from everyone - including Hitchcock . I suppose my favorite part of Jamaica Inn was the chance to see a young Maureen O'Hara . She was as feisty at 18 as she would be throughout her career . She does a nice job given the circumstances she was working with .
An okay way to spend an hour or so	A young man arrives in a small town ( Pop . 1505 we are informed ) after his Uncle , a local despised hermit , died . The young man moves into the Uncle's shack and immediately strange things begin happening . People are killed or maimed by a variety of animals and no one seems to be able to explain why . The only person who seems unaffected is the newcomer living in the old hermits shack . What Works : - Kill the Goat . I really wasn't expecting this much blood . Don't get me wrong , this isn't Braindead we're talking about , but for a movie from the very early 60s , I found it surprisingly graphic . The goat sacrifice ( shown in shadows ) is a nice touch . - 60s Charm . This is a hard one to explain , but the movie has a certain charm to it that I can't help but enjoy . A lot of American made movies from this period ( I Bury the Living , The Devil's Hand , 13 Ghosts , etc . ) have a similar feel to them . Maybe it's the innocence of the characters and their reactions when faced with evil . Maybe it's the low-budget look . Maybe it's the willingness on the part of the filmmakers to experiment and take chances . Whatever , I'm a fan of this period of American horror . - Storyline . Regardless of how successful the movie is or isn't , the whole idea of selling your soul to devil and writing a contract on an old goat skin with your blood is the stuff of nightmares . What Doesn't Work : - The Sheriff . I've always had a problem when supposed level-headed characters in positions of authority are so willing to accept wild explanations to strange events . In The Devil's Partner , not only does the Sheriff seem willing to accept the supernatural idea , he formulates the theory . - Why Did He Do That ? The movie presents very little in the way of character motivation to explain why the young man feels the need to summon animals to harm the citizens of the town . Is he seeking revenge ? Is he out to get the only young , single woman in town ? Is he simply evil ? I suppose we , as viewers , are supposed to come up with our own ideas , but a little hint at the true nature of the young man's motivation would have been nice . - Acting . This one is easy to complain about in these low-budget movies , but it's a fault nonetheless . With a couple of exceptions , the acting in The Devil's Partner is bad . Spencer Carlisle as the Sheriff tops of list of bad performances . There are far worse ways to waste 73 minutes of your life than watching The Devil's Partner . It will never be confused with a great movie , but it's entertaining enough in its own low-budget , 60s sort of way .
Average at best	- Fairly standard giallo about a string of murders with fashion models as victims . The one clue is snippets of a conversation overheard in a bar that seem to be tied to the murders . The only problem is that the man who overheard the conversation is blind . With the help of his butler and one of the models , he tries to assist the police in locating the murderer . - If it weren't for two key moments in this movie , it would be a totally forgettable giallo . The first is the method used by the murderer to kill a couple of the models . I won't go into detail to ruin it , so I'll just say that it's one of the most ridiculous , far-fetched , outlandish things I've seen . Most of the movie's credibility is destroyed in these moments . - The second key moment is the final murder . This one works as well or better than most I've seen in any movie . It's one of the most violent , grisly razor deaths you'll likely encounter . Think of it as the scene that Hitchcock didn't show you in that famous shower . Pastore gives it to you in all it's gory detail . - Other than these two memorable moments , the rest of the film is average at best . Nothing else about the movie really stands out .
Disappointing	- Based on the popular video game series Tomb Raider , Lara Croft is a wealthy archaeologist who travels the world seeking ancient artifacts . In this movie , Lara is racing against the Illuminati ( a secret society seeking world control ) to find the two parts of a device that , when put together , allows the possessor the ability to control time . To save the world , Lara must get there first . - Several years ago , I was a huge fan of the Playstation series . I would sit and play each game for several days ( or weeks ) until I had entirely completed it . So , when I first read the news about a movie based on my favorite game , I was very excited . Probably too excited . There is just no way a movie could have ever met my lofty expectations . And , for the most part , Lara Croft : Tomb Raider didn't come close . Having watched it again for the first time since its theatrical release , I realize that while it's not as bad as I first thought , it's still not a very good movie . - The real problem I have with the movie is the lack of adventure . The fun in playing the game was the search for the lost relic . Actually finding the relic could be anticlimactic . In the movie , everything seems to come too easy . To find the first half of the device , Lara points to a spot on the map in South East Asia and bam - she immediately finds the temple with the first half . For the second half , Lara travels to Siberia . Inside a very small ice cave , Lara knocks down one wall and bam - there's the second half . No searching . No mystery . No adventure . And this leads to no fun . - The biggest plus is the casting of Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft . From the first moment she appears on screen , she IS Lara Croft . I've never seen an actor so perfectly fit my expectations of a well known character .
Too restrained for my liking	Wrongfully imprisoned for a crime he didn't commit , Minnesota Clay ( Cameron Mitchell ) escapes to seek revenge against the man who refused to testify at his trial . He finds that his target , Fox ( Georges Riviere ) , has made himself sheriff of Clay's hometown . Fox and his band of thugs run the town with an iron fist and generally terrorize the citizens . To make matters worse , Clay is slowly going blind . How can Clay ever hope to get his revenge if he can't see his target ? Sergio Corbucci is one of my favorite Spaghetti Western directors . If it weren't for Sergio Leone , Corbucci might be remembered as the best director the genre ever produced . Some of his movies like Django , The Great Silence , Companeros , and The Hellbenders are among my favorites . Sadly , I cannot include Minnesota Clay on this list . It's an earlier example of the genre and it shows . The movie plays more like a traditional American Western that just happens to have been filmed in Europe . It lacks a lot of the over-the-top violence that I associate with the Spaghetti Western . While there are set-pieces I enjoy ( like Clay's meeting with the Mexicans or any scene with Ethel Rojo ) , as a whole , it never draws me in the way Corbucci's other movies do . I've always been a big fan of Cameron Mitchell . He was more than capable of giving the kind of performance that should have been perfect for one of Corbucci's Spaghetti Westerns . But like most everything else in the movie , he comes across as far too restrained . It's too bad this movie wasn't made later in the Spaghetti Western cycle . I would have really enjoyed seeing Mitchell in a Django type film .
For a Franco film , it's not too bad	It's difficult to know how to rate a Franco film . Do you compare his films with all other films , or do you just compare Franco's films with his other films ? Compared with the entire population of movies , Night of the Skull probably isn't that good . But for a Franco film , it's not too bad . And when you consider that this is only one of ten films Franco is credited with directing in 1976 , it's amazing that Night of the Skull is at all comprehensible . I haven't read this anywhere so I have no real basis for knowing this , but Night of the Skull seems to be Franco's attempt to make a Giallo / Krimi type film . A hooded , cloaked , skull-masked killer is offing the members of a wealthy family gathered together for the reading of a will . Almost everyone in the family is a suspect , that is , until they're killed . Some of the scenes are almost expertly handled like the first murder where the elderly patriarch of the family is buried alive with only his hands , which have been tied behind his back , sticking out of the ground . There are also very few scenes where Franco appears to lose his ( and the camera's ) focus and stays pretty much on course throughout . On the downside , the killer's identity is , unfortunately , too easy to guess and leaves little in the way of a surprise once he / she is finally unmasked . And , while the acting is never as bad as in something like Franco's Oasis of the Zombies , no one was going to win an award for their performance either . In the end , Night of the Skull is something of a treat for fans of Franco . Non-fans would probably be best advised to steer clear .
The ineffective George Brent	A respectable book shop manager , named John Harman ( George Brent ) , gets mixed up in blackmail and murder when he crosses paths with Ruby Bruce ( Diana Dors ) . It's either pay up or she'll go to the police with a made-up story of Mr . Harman attacking her . He agrees to hand over the money and thinks he's put the whole matter behind him . But things only get worse for Mr . Harman when Ruby's dead body is found in his house . Horror icon Terence Fisher directed this sordid tale for Hammer . He does a good job of wringing tension out of what is essentially a weak script . There are certainly moments to enjoy , but overall , Man Bait is to uneven to consider it anything other than average at best . For example , the acting of the principles is terrible . Dors is terribly miscast and doesn't come across as the temptress she playing . Even worse is Brent . What a mamby-pamby man ! The whole notion of this milk-toast being on the run from the police is hysterical . A complete change in casting would have gone a long way in making Man Bait a much better film .
However unfair , I can't help but compare it with the original	I'm not sure that anyone ( especially fans of horror ) doesn't have any idea of what to expect from the plot of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . For those who live under a rock , here's a very brief synopsis of the plot - TCM revolves around a group of friends who become stranded while traveling the back-roads of Texas . Unfortunately , they look for help in the wrong place and are soon under attack from a chainsaw welding maniac and his loony family . Most of the lost group of friends will pay for their mistake with their lives . What Works : - Kill Scenes . This is one of the few areas where the remake actually surpasses the original . For all the hype , TCM 1974 is not a very explicitly violent movie . Sure , we know people are dying , but we see very little of the actual carnage . TCM 2003 presents a lot of the gory details very effectively . - Tension . Surprise , surprise ? a modern American horror movie with some atmosphere . While I never felt the sense of dread or foreboding I do when watching TCM 1974 , I must applaud the efforts to create tension through some relatively effective atmosphere . A perfect example is the scene where Jessica Biel hides in the closet . Very nicely done . - R . Lee Ermey . While I'm not a fan of most of the members of the " new " family , Ermey is the exception . He would have fit right in with the Sawyers from TCM 1974 . What Doesn't Work : - TCM 1974 . It was all but impossible for me to watch this movie and not compare it with the original . The original is superior in many ways . Here's a laundry list of things I preferred in the original : the demented , over-the-top family ; Marilyn Burns ' escape and constant screaming ; the dinner scene ; the house decorated with human and animal remains ; character motivation ; and authentic 70s feel . The last item on my list may be a bit unfair , but the remake might have been better had the decision not been made to set it in the 70s . Few of the characters look , act , or " feel " authentic . - Leatherface has a Medical Condition . Please just stop it ! Why do many modern movies feel the need to create these ridiculous explanations for every character's motivation ? What's wrong with having characters whose motivation is either that they are cannibals , backwards , or just plain evil ? - Why Doesn't Jessica Biel Die ? This is almost exactly the same problem I had with Wrong Turn . Obviously I know why Biel doesn't die ? you can't kill off the lead actress in the tight white t-shirt . It's all too unrealistic given the other events in the movie . All of the other members of her group are either immediately killed or so severely maimed that there is no real hope of their escape . But not Biel . With only a few scratches , the members of the family seem to take care to keep her " intact " to facilitate her escape . I never got the feeling she was in any real danger . It's probably easy to see that I'm a fan of TCM 1974 . It's difficult to explain , but the original has a gritty , brutal , savage " feel " to it that I find missing from most of the remake . And while I enjoyed the remake on a certain level , it has too many problems for me to completely endorse or recommend it .
" This is the most fun I've had without lubricant . "	There has been so much written on Saw since its release in 2004 that I doubt there's much left to be said . Therefore , I'll limit this to just a couple of comments . It may not be the best " new " horror film I've seen , but it certainly beats a lot of the post-Scream films that glutted the market in recent years . Saw features something sadly lacking from a lot of modern horror ? actual dialogue . Too many of the recent horror movies rely so heavily on larger-than-life CGI effects that dialogue is often an afterthought . It was a welcome change to see a film where characters have actual verbal interaction with one another . Even though the movie is heavily dependent on two characters speaking to each other , there are still enough gruesome scenes to spice things up . They are shocking in their nature and difficult to watch in their viciousness . These scenes are very well done . My biggest complaint ( and I'll try not to reveal too much and spoil the film as it was spoiled for me ) is the big twist at the end . I just don't see how it's possible for " that " to have occurred . It doesn't seem feasible to me given the time frame of the events in Saw .
Okay , but nothing special	I've wanted to see Boot Hill for a while now , but it's been difficult to find a watchable transfer . I realize now that I haven't been missing much . For the most part , the film is standard Spaghetti Western stuff . A group of claim jumpers , lead by Honey Fisher ( Victor Buono ) , have everyone in a small mining town under their control . Eventually , though , one of the townsfolk gets tired of being robbed and asks for the help of his friend , Cat Stevens ( Terence Hill ) . Using a traveling circus as cover , Stevens is able to get into town unnoticed for a final showdown with Fisher and his gang of thugs . Other than the use of the circus , the plot and action in Boot Hill aren't as original or as good as you'll find in some other films of this type . The final showdown is predictable and lacks any real tension . When Stevens finally meets up with Finch , the head bad guy , nothing much happens . Although most of the film is played straight , there are a few attempts at humor that feel out of place . For the most part , the acting is decent , but it's nothing to write home about . Hill , Bud Spencer , and Woody Strode are okay , but it's nothing special . The exception is Buono who is by far the standout in the film . Unfortunately , his screen time is limited and he doesn't even appear until the movie is half over . Where Boot Hill excels and what makes it unique are the directorial and editing decisions made with the film . There are a number of instances where scenes of violence are quickly spliced with scenes of the circus . Gunfight ? a clown playing a trumpet ? a man gets shot ? a trapeze act ? hiding in a barn ? dancing girls . It's a nice touch . Finally , whether intentional or not , Boot Hill features several scenes that can best be described as homosexual in nature . From the miners dancing check-to-check in the opening to Bud Spencer calling the tall , blond , good looking cowboy he lives with " Baby Doll " to the unexplained relationship between Woody Strode and the young , good looking trapeze artist , there's an undeniable homoerotic feel underlying a lot of the movie .
Kathy Ireland - The Frump	While I can't find fault with Kathy Ireland's decision to branch out of swimsuit modeling to get into acting , but is Alien from L . A . really the best she could come up with for her first movie ? What better way to begin a career than to star in a movie that's a cheesy sort of Alice in Wonderland meets the Road Warrior with a twist of Bob Fosse for good measure ? And to top it off , why not take one of the world's most beautiful women and give her the most annoying voice imaginable ? She sounds like what you might expect if you fed helium to Mickey Mouse . I can't think of a better way to kick off an acting career ! Alien form L . A . also features what I consider to be one of the stupidest , lamest , and most infuriating movie clichs ever dreamed up . How can losing your glasses and changing your clothes so completely change one's personality ? Movies like Alien from L . A . would have you believe that you can go from mousy frump to supermodel with a new outfit . They don't get it ? it's not about the clothes ? it's about an attitude . You can't change your persona like you do your socks . Despite its numerous problems , there's still some fun to be had with Alien from L . A . If you're a fan of the thick , gooey 80s-style cheese , you'll find a heaping helping in this movie . From the Flock of Seagulls look of several of the characters to the synthed-up soundtrack ? it's the 80s at its best ( or worst as the case may be ) . As an added bonus , the movie features a healthy dose of campy humor that works if you take it the right way . I think too many people go into this movie expecting something quite different from what it is . They take the movie far more serious than it was ever intended to be . It's not perfect , but parts can be fun .
" Sex dominates the world ! And now , I dominate sex ! "	Curious ? Yes . And weird , odd , bizarre , and maybe even a little eclectic . It certainly is one strange movie . The Curious Dr . Humpp has one of the craziest plots I've seen . Dr . Humpp is working on an experiment to increase the libido of women to basically turn them into braindead nymphomaniacs . With the assistance of his lumbering army of monsters , he kidnaps men and women and forces them to have sex . He extracts some sort of fluid from the bodies of his test subjects at the moment of climax that he uses to keep from turning into a monster himself . Other than the fact that Dr . Humpp has a brain in a jar in his laboratory that talks to him and directs his actions , that's about it . The Curious Dr . Humpp isn't what I would call a " good " movie on any level . Much of the movie is so inept that it fits nicely beside the better known works of a director like Ed Wood . Director Emilio Vieyra seems to have gone to the Jess Franco school of movie-making with the out of focus shots , unnecessary camera zooms , and filming random objects that have no bearing on the plot . The biggest flaw in The Curious Dr . Humpp are the numerous and incredibly dull sex scenes . I've read that these scenes were inserted after the initial production ? and it shows . These scenes destroy whatever flow or pacing the movie might have had . Even with its numerous weaknesses , The Curious Dr . Humpp is a movie that will appeal to those looking for something a little different and off the beaten path . It may not be " good " in the traditional sense , but there's no arguing that it is fascinating . You don't often run across a movie like this everyday .
Effective , but sadly unoriginal	In the fourth movie in the Blind Dead series , the Templars are terrorizing a small village whose inhabitants offer sacrifices of young women on a regular interval to appease the blind dead . It's obvious that de Ossorio had run out of original ideas by the time he made Night of the Seagulls . While many of the scenes are effective , we've seen it all before . The main original idea found in Night of the Seagulls is the virgin sacrifice . But if you've seen enough horror movies , it really wasn't new or creative either . Among the moments in Night of the Seagulls that stand out to me are the scenes where the people are trapped in the house and the overall feeling I got from the people in the small village . A " people trapped in the house " scene is nothing new . It's been used any number of times . de Ossorio used it effectively in the first two Blind Dead movies . The scene in Night of the Seagulls is comparable to those . As for the feeling I got from the village , it's a depressing place , well filmed by de Ossorio and obviously authentic . You just don't build sets like that . Night of the Seagulls , unfortunately , also contains the worst moment of any of the Blind Dead movies . The ending is so disappointing . After the masterful finale to Tombs of the Blind Dead and the visually stunning end to The Ghost Galleon , the last scenes in Night of the Seagulls are pathetic . There's a great build-up as our two heroes are chased by the Templars . They seek shelter inside the Templars lair . As the blind dead ghouls move in , the couple turns over a statue destroying the Templars . Roll credits , end of movie . What a letdown .
" If you seek corroboration , interrogate my pillow . "	When the daughter of a wealthy American industrialist is murdered aboard the Blue Train from Calais to Nice , Hercule Poirot ( David Suchet ) is pressed into service to assist the local police in finding a killer . With plenty of suspects , an attack on another passenger , and a missing world famous ruby , Poirot has his hands full . As a little background , it has been ages since I last read Agatha Christie's book on which this movie is based . Therefore , I am in no position to comment on its faithfulness ( or lack thereof ) to the source material . Instead , all I can do is comment on the story presented in the movie . Watching The Mystery of the Blue Train is like watching a tale of two movies . The first , involving the film's plot , the acting , the look , etc . , is quite enjoyable . The plot unfolds nicely and the film's resolution makes sense . And I always enjoy watching Poirot gather the suspects together for a final reveal . The acting was actually a step above what I've come to expect from the Poirot series . The sets and costumes are very nicely done . I was particularly impressed with the French villa . But as I indicated , this is a tale of two movies . What I've thus far described would have made for one of the better entries in the Poirot series . Unfortunately , the direction is PATHETIC . I don't know who decided to try to make a Hercule Poirot mystery look like an episode of NYPD Blue , but they should be drummed out of the entertainment industry immediately . There are so many hand-held camera shots that I thought I might get seasick . Why not shoot this traditional , grand story in a more traditional style ? The editing doesn't help matters any . It's all MTV-style quick cuts that do not lend themselves well to what should have been a slow-burn , drawing room style mystery . It's unfortunate that the direction and editing have made The Mystery of the Blue Train almost unwatchable .
I wish Hammer had made more films with Yutte !	Lust for a Vampire is the second of Hammer's Karnstein films . While the first , The Vampire Lovers , was far from being great , it is a much better movie than this , the first sequel . The acting is weak , the male lead is very unsympathetic , Mike Raven comes across as a Christopher Lee wannabe , the sets are " too clean " , and the plot is incredibly predictable . In all honesty , I've probably rated Lust for a Vampire too high . Other than a few good set pieces and Yutte Stensgaard , it's really doesn't have much going for it . Set Pieces ? The scene of Carmilla's resurrection may be one of my favorites from any Hammer movie . It's a wonderful mix of blood , nudity , and some Satanic mumbo-jumbo . The sight of the half-naked Carmilla literally covered in blood is not one that is easily forgotten . Yutte Stensgaard ? The best word I can think of to describe Stensgaard is " stunning " . If she's in a scene , I defy anyone ( at least any male ) to not focus on her . She may not have been much of an actress , but as far as eye-candy goes , she's hard to beat .
Chaney could play the menacing brute as well as anyone	After the criminal known as Charles " Butcher " Benton ( Lon Chaney , Jr . ) is put to death in the gas chamber , his body finds its way to the laboratory of a Professor Bradshaw . Bradshaw is doing some cancer experiments with electricity and can always use a fresh corpse . But his experiment has a side effect he is not prepared for ? the electricity brings The Butcher back to life . In his rejuvenated state , The Butcher cannot be harmed ? seemingly , he is impervious to all attacks . After getting rid of Bradshaw and his assistant , The Butcher heads for San Francisco . He's looking for the three men that set him up and sent him to death row . Of course the police are looking for The Butcher , but how do you stop an Indestructible Man ? I'm not going to go overboard and call Indestructible Man a great movie or anything . There are too many problems to do that . But for a B-movie from the 50s , it's got a lot going for it . First , and most obvious , is Lon Chaney , Jr . By 1956 , Chaney was already past his prime and headed toward self-destruction , but he still had a definite presence . He could play the menacing brute as well as anyone . Director Jack Pollexfen's decision to repeatedly use close-ups of Chaney's twitching eyes , though , gets a bit old ( if not pathetic ) after a while . For the most part , the rest of the acting is good . The exception to me is Max Showalter . He was just too annoying and unsuited for the part of the male lead . The plot in Indestructible Man is a lot of fun . Watching Chaney throw bad guys down flights of stairs is a hoot . Unlike some other B-movies of the period , Indestructible Man moves at a good pace with only a drive-in dinner scene slowing things down . Finally , I really enjoy some of the period photography found in the movie of San Francisco in the mid-50s . There are some very interesting outdoor shots of the city . I've actually seen Indestructible Man a number of times , but this latest viewing was the first with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary . This MST3K episode isn't bad , but it's not all that memorable either . I'll give it a on my MST3K rating scale .
" There is hope , but it has to come from inside , from Man himself . "	While It Conquered the World can't compare with some of the best sci-fi from the 50s , it's still a fun movie if you can get past the special effects . The plot is straight out of the 1950s Guide to Sci-Fi / Monster Movies . An alien comes to earth with the intention of taking over the place . The alien uses some sort of bat looking things to help him gather " volunteers " to his cause ( they hit them in the back of the neck and inject them with some mind-control device ) . The biggest difference between the plot of It Conquered the World and other similar movies is that one character , Dr . Tom Anderson ( Lee Van Cleef ) , is in communication with the alien and willingly tries to help him . This brings the whole Red Scare subtext found in a lot of these movies to the front as Dr . Anderson's friend and colleague Dr . Paul Nelson ( Peter Graves ) calls him a traitor . Being called a traitor ( i . e . a commie ) was about as bad as you could get in the 50s . One thing that elevates It Conquered the World is the cast . You don't expect ( at least I don't expect ) to see names like Peter Graves , Lee Van Cleef , Beverly Garland , and Dick Miller in the same low budget Roger Corman film . I can't think of many movies shot on this kind of budget with four names I'm so familiar with . Corman really had a knack for spotting young talent . The less said about the special effect the better . The monster is not as bad or poorly thought out as something like Ro-Man from Robot Monster , but it comes close to being just as silly . It Conquered the World might have benefited from not showing the monster . I recently watched The Space Children and noted that Jack Arnold was wise to limit his monster's screen time . What I wrote for that film applies here too ? " Too often , low-budget sci-fi films from this period look ridiculous because of the desire for elaborate special effects ( i . e . monster and aliens ) that outstripped the funding it would require . " In the end , while you can certainly find better sci-fi from the 1950s than It Conquered the World , you can just as easily find much worse . This one is about average but worth at least one look if you're into this kind of thing . You might want to check it out just to hear Peter Graves closing speech ? " Man is a feeling creature , and because of it the greatest in the universe . He learned too late for himself that men have to find their own way , to make their own mistakes . There can't be any gift of perfection from outside ourselves . When men seek such perfection they find only death , fire , loss , disillusionment and the end of everything that's gone forward . Men have always sought an end to our misery but it can't be given , it has to be achieved . There is hope , but it has to come from inside , from Man himself . " It's worth the price of admission if you ask me !
" Boys , set the terror level at code brown , ' cause I need to change my pants . "	Last weekend , I took my 6 year-old son to see the 3-D version of Monsters vs Aliens . For a user comment on the movie , I thought I would do something a little different and interview him to get his thoughts . Me : So , what did you think of Monsters vs Aliens ? Son : Good ( Let me explain a little about his one word answer . My son is a very articulate , bright little boy . But for some reason , when it comes to using positive adjectives , he seems to only know one ? " Good " . And he uses it alone ? no subject or verb as in " It was good " ? just " Good " . The only problem is that to my son , " Good " is used to describe anything from an ice cream cone to a trip to Disney World . What did you think about that pizza ? Answer - Good . How was school today ? Answer - Good . What would you think if I gave you a million dollars ? Answer ? Good . So take his " Good " as you will . ) Me ( trying to drag something else out of him ) : What was your favorite part ? Son : When Ginormica was busting through the wall . Me : Was any of the movie funny ? Son : Yes ? It was funny when Bob got stepped on . Me : What did you think of the 3-D effects ? Son : Good . ( See what I mean ? ) Me : Would you recommend it to your friends at school ? Son : Yes , it was really good ( What ? Really good ? Where did that come from ? ) . There you have it ? a succinct review from a reasonably typical 6 year-old kindergrtner . As for me , the movie was only okay . The 3-D effects were often breathtaking . And some of the comedy hit the mark . I especially enjoyed Hugh Laurie as Dr . Cockroach . But the plot was overly simple and very predictable . There were few if any surprises . And I really didn't like the way the monsters were used . They were often little more than comic relief and had no real purpose . So while my son may say " Good " , I say " Average " . A from me .
Why the need for a fake beard ?	Devil Doll is one of those movies that , while it will never be confused with a masterpiece of horror , is effective in its on little way . Though the story is often predictable , it's creepy enough to provide a few chills along the way ? not scary , just creepy . Ventriloquist dummies like Hugo have always given me the heebie-jeebies and when you give them a soul , a mind of their own , and the ability to move ( not to mention a knife ) , it's the stuff of nightmares as far as I'm concerned . Finally , in the case of Devil Doll , the ending really works as the villainous Great Vorelli gets what he deserves . Though nowhere near as effective as the ending of Freaks , it's very reminiscent of that film's finale . On the downside , Devil Doll would have probably worked better at 60 minutes instead of 81 . Not that there's an abundance of obvious padding , but there's hardly enough material to fill the extra 20 minutes . The acting is nothing to write home about . While Bryant Haliday is effectively villainous , William Sylvester is a complete bore as the film's hero . One thing that I really don't understand is the need for Vorelli to wear the fake beard . I mean no one was chasing him so why the need for a disguise ? It's not really a criticism , just an odd observation . Lastly , it would have helped Devil Doll had the script given Yvonne Romain a little more to do . Her talents are wasted walking around in a trance for most of the movie . Devil Doll is another of those films that I've seen both with and without the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary . And while I enjoy the movie on its own , it makes for a really good MST3K episode . Some very funny riffs and some solid host segments . I'll rate the movie a but give it a on my MST3k rating scale .
Interesting on two fronts	Gow the Killer follows a team of explorers as they cruise the South Pacific Islands searching for cannibals and head-hunters . Remember , this film was made in the 1920s . Places like Fiji , New Guinea , and Samoa were far away , exotic places to be feared . And , remember that in the 1920s , there may have still been some remote islands where cannibalism was practiced . The Gow in the title is a chief whose search for his missing daughter is recounted in the film . But this story is hardly the reason to watch the movie . Instead , Gow the Killer does provide some interesting footage of primitive peoples that cannot be reproduced today . I'm sure they natives were told to " perform " for the camera , but still , there's a glimmer of truth that does come through . And it's for these reasons that Gow the Killer is worth sitting down and watching . The other interesting facet of Gow the Killer is the attitudes of " civilized " ( i . e . white ) society toward the natives of the South Pacific . The narrator of the piece would be labeled a racist or worse in today's PC world . And while I'm no champion of political correctness , some of the things this guy says are embarrassing . To say that a native shaving with a clam shell must surely have a different nervous system from whites is one of the more ignorant things I've ever heard . So while I appreciated the scenes of the primitive natives , I was more shocked by the attitudes of the supposedly sophisticated explorers .
A few excellent set-pieces , but little else to recommend	After a three-month absence , Sir Richard Fordyce and his new bride return to his estate under a black cloud . A young woman who lived on his lands was brutally raped and murdered just two days prior to his return . Her last words seemed to accuse Sir Richard of being the culprit . In addition , several of the locals report seeing Sir Richard's dead first wife chasing him through the village on horseback yelling " Murderer ! " Sir Richard is at a loss to explain these strange events . He has been more than 100 miles away for months . Is it witchcraft or something equally sinister ? As the dead bodies begin to pile-up , Sir Richard must discover the truth to keep his tenants from revolting and losing his new wife . What Works : - The Opening . The movie begins with a woman we know nothing about running through the forest frantically trying to escape an unseen assailant . Unfortunately , she doesn't make it . This scene provides a wonderful opening and a lot of promise for The Black Torment . There is some real tension and atmosphere in this scene . It's a shame the rest of the movie couldn't be as good as the first five minutes . . - Other Set-Pieces . Other than the opening , there are a couple of other set-pieces that work reasonably well . The ending features a twist and a showdown that are nice . Nothing spectacular , just nice . But the best set-pieces are the ones featuring the dead first wife . The sight of the shrouded woman either lurking through the garden or riding a horse through the forest was a treat to a fan of Gothic horror like me . What Doesn't Work : - The Cast . I can't think of one member of the cast that I enjoyed watching . The actors are unappealing and the characters they play are unlikable . The worst are the two leads - Heather Sears as the new wife and John Turner as Sir Richard . I didn't think it was possible for two people to annoy me as much as these two do . Every time either opened their mouth it was like fingernails on a chalkboard . I really wish the killer could have gotten hold of their necks . - Talk , Talk , Talk . In between the bits of horror , The Black Torment turns into an incredibly inane melodrama . Now it's not that I mind melodrama as long as it's done well , but much of this is painful to watch . - The Stupidity of Sir Richard . The character of Sir Richard has to be one of the dumber characters put on film . Had he stopped yelling at everyone long enough , solving the mystery would have been easy . Instead , every little thing seems to unrealistically upset him and send him off half-cocked . A little rational thinking on the part of Sir Richard could have cut the runtime of The Black Torment in half . To say that I was disappointed in The Black Torment would be an understatement . The plot description I had read across the internet made the movie sound like an undiscovered Gothic gem . And while a few bits of the horror were fun to watch watch , these moments seem to be enjoyable almost by accident when compared with the bulk of the movie . The ideas for a good movie are here , but , unfortunately , neither the script nor the actors were able to turn The Black Torment into one .
Not all Peter Cushing performances were created equal .	I'll keep this brief as there is really not much to say about this movie . The Legend of the Werewolf is a fairly enjoyable , although predictable , Hammeresque werewolf movie . The story is decent , just not overly original . There's very little in the way of new ground covered here . It's all " been there , done that " type stuff . The werewolf makeup is the real strong point to this movie . One of the best I've ever seen , which is surprising considering Legend of the Werewolf's relative obscurity . Other than that , I don't have much positive to say . Peter Cushing made several bad movies in his carrier , but he usually was able to rise above it and give terrific performances . Not here . In my opinion , this is one of the only movies I can think of where Cushing appears to be just going through the motions .
" Is that all you're gonna do this weekend ? Smoke dope ? "	Writing a plot description for Friday the 13th Part III seems sort of unnecessary . It's pretty much the same as every other movie in the series ? a group of seemingly brainless kids goes into the woods only to be slaughtered by an unseen killer . How original ! But in fairness , it's actually no better or worse than the other films in the series . Even with the plot limitations , there are some scenes in Friday the 13th Part III that I enjoy : Jason finding his hockey mask , a " dead " Jason pulling himself up to get the rope off his neck , and everyone going to the barn to die are favorite moments for me . The last point ? everyone going to the barn to die ? is actually something of a joke between my wife and I . At one point or another in the movie , it seems that every single brain dead character makes a trip , whether purposeful or not , to the barn where Jason just happens to be hiding . It's utterly ridiculous , but fun nonetheless . Friday the 13th Part III was released during something of a 3-D craze in the early 80s . I can remember seeing this movie , the re-release of the 3-D 1953 House of Wax , and Jaws 3-D in the theaters . There are some scenes in Friday the 13th Part III that may seem pointless today that were amazing in 3-D . The best example in my mind is the spear-gun scene . Watching today , it's nothing special . But in 3-D , it blew me away .
" These humans are dangerous , don't you understand that ? "	For those familiar with the Planet of the Apes movies , the television series should seem terribly familiar . Alan Virdon ( Ron Harper ) and Pete Burke ( James Naughton ) are two astronauts who crash land on Earth some 1 , 000 years in the future . Centuries previous , man effectively destroyed his civilization allowing intelligent , talking apes to assume control . Now the two astronauts , with the help of a sympathetic chimpanzee named Galen ( Roddy McDowell ) , will have to evade capture if they are to stay alive and find a way back home . Not a whole lot of originality in the series set-up . It effectively plays like a marriage between the Planet of the Apes movies and another TV offering , Land of the Giants , that aired four to five years previous . Almost everything is a cheap imitation of the movie . Not that the Planet of the Apes movies had extravagant budgets , but the sets , locations , special effects , and make-up are all less expensive versions of what came before . Even the actors were second tier compared with the likes of Charlton Heston , James Whitmore , Maurice Evans , and Kim Hunter . The lone exception is Roddy McDowell . Even though he plays Galen and not the better known Cornelius , he is quite honestly one of the few bright spots . Just watch McDowell in scenes with other apes . He's got the facial movements , the posture , and the walk the others actors don't quite have . Ron Harper and James Naughton are the two main human characters . While nether is particular bad in the series , nether one does anything to distinguish himself either . It's really not surprising that Planet of the Apes didn't make it on television . Beyond lacking originality , 1974 was a time shows like All in the Family and Maude ruled the airwaves . It was also a time when families like mine only had one television and people like my Dad weren't in the mood for " kid's shows " as he put it . It never had a chance .
Considering it's Beaudine and Monogram - it's not that bad	While The Face of Marble will never be confused with a great horror film , it is a decent little movie from the infamously cheap Monogram Pictures and director William Beaudine . John Carradine plays a doctor intent on discovering the secret to bringing the dead back to life . In most scenes , he rises above the material given and delivers a first class performance . The less said about the rest of the cast the better . They can generously be described as wooden and unemotional . The movie begins with Carradine and his assistant attempting to bring a dead man back to life . After this fails , he tries the procedure on his wife's dog ( Carradine's character kills the dog with little or no remorse or care for his wife's feelings ) . And finally , his wife gets the opportunity to experience the whizzing and sparking machines in his lab . There's also a housekeeper who practices voodoo and has some sort of control over the dog and wife . The housekeeper uses her power to have the dog and wife do her bidding . Under the housekeeper's control , the wife kills Carradine and attempts to kill everyone else in the cast . For the limited budget , there are actually some good special effects . Some of the scenes where the dog walks through the walls are especially effective . Also , much of the budget appears to have been spent on fancy lab equipment . Carradine has a room full of electronic gadgets similar to those in Frankenstein . The marble effect ( from which the movies title comes ) is , however , not especially good or memorable . If you can get past the lackluster supporting performances and the obvious budget constraints , The Face of Marble can be a somewhat fun little film . Not the best , but watchable .
" I'm muzzled by army brass ! "	Watching Plan 9 from Outer Space is like watching an instructional video on how to make a bad movie . It's all here ? poor acting , dime store special effects , ridiculously flimsy sets , absolutely no continuity , bad editing , and an incoherent plot . But the most offensive part in my mind is the dialogue . It's completely inane . Criswell's opening monologue is a perfect example ? " Greetings , my friend . We are all interested in the future , for that is where you and I are going to spend the rest of our lives . And remember my friend , future events such as these will affect you in the future ? . " Huh ? Does any of that make the least bit of sense ? Not to me . Some people , however , go so far as to call Plan 9 from Outer Space the worst movie ever made . That's ludicrous if you ask me . It might be the most famous bad movie , but not the worst . There are any number of movies more unwatchable , more wretched , and more mind-numbing than Plan 9 . For sure , it's bad , but it doesn't deserve the reputation it's gotten over the years . There are several positive aspects of Plan 9 I could cite , but I'll limit this to my old standard argument on Ed Wood as a filmmaker . He may not have had the most talent , the biggest budgets , the most gifted actors , and the best written scripts , but there's not denying Ed Wood's love for movies . You can see it in almost every frame of the film . His enthusiasm for his work is almost infectious . And in my mind that counts for something . It makes watching Plan 9 a reasonably fun experience . Sure , a lot of the fun comes from unintentional sources , but Wood's vision is still there for all to enjoy . And with the fun comes entertainment . I will continue to argue that entertainment is the most important factor for me in watching a movie . That's why I've got no problem giving Plan 9 a .
What happened to The Hoard ?	" Daughter of Pomira " is one of those Xena episodes that I don't really enjoy . Episodes that center on a sentiment , family , or lesson type plot tend to be among my least favorite . Basically , the more an episode is based in reality , the less I tend to go for it . Give me the far out mythical stuff or give the comedy and songs or give me the more horrific and outrageous episodes ? just don't give me an episode with a life lesson . It's not that " Daughter of Pomira " is awful ( I've yet to see an episode of Xena that I thought was awful ) , it's just never going to make it onto my list of favorites anytime soon . But I've got a bigger problem with " Daughter of Pomira " than the attempt at a touching plot . My problem is with the handling of The Hoard . When The Hoard first appeared in Season 3's " The Price " , I loved it . An unstoppable , barbaric killing machine ! How awesome was that ? The whole episode was played as if Xena was truly terrified of what might become of her and Gabrielle if The Hoard were to get hold of them . Until last night , I had never seen " Daughter of Pomira " , so I was very excited to see the return of The Hoard . But this wasn't the same Hoard depicted a season earlier . This Hoard was ready to make peace ? not cut the throats out of their enemies . This Hoard looked on as Xena fought one of her own men ? not take them both and skin them alive . Essentially , this is an emasculated version of the Season 3 Hoard . While I can certainly understand The Hoard leader's desire to get his daughter , he would have ripped apart anything standing in his way . I'm not familiar enough with Season 5 and 6 to know if The Hoard made a return appearance . I just hope that if they did , it's The Hoard of " The Price " and not The Hoard of " Daughter of Pomira " .
" Akita ! "	I may be the only person alive who has seen both One Million Years B . C . and When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth that actually prefers the sequel to the original . Not that either is something I would recommend very highly , but at least there's a sense of goofiness about When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth that's not present in the overly serious Raquel Welch film . When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth also features a bevy of scantily clad cave women ( could Victori Vetri fill out a bikini or what ? ) , stop-motion dinosaurs that almost outdo the ones from Harryhausen , and a few nice action sequences . Based on my rating there's obviously a flip-side . The negatives for me include too much dialogue ( in a made-up language no less that's completely impossible to follow ) , an overly involved plot ( at least overly involved given the lack of language ) , and too much caveman butt . The language business actually had me laughing a couple of times . Apparently neither the cavemen nor the screenwriters could agree on what certain words meant . " Akita " appears to have meant anything from let's go over there to I really like you to your ham sandwich is ready ! Unintentionally , it's hysterical ( and distracting ) . In the end , I can't in good conscious rate When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth any better than a ? not the best movie in the world but worth seeking out if you're a fan of either this kind of dinosaur movie or a Hammer completist .
A Near Miss	- I'm really not quite sure why House of Bamboo doesn't work better than it does . It's got a good cast headed by Robert Ryan and Robert Stack . It's got a very accomplished director in Samuel Fuller . As far as technical aspects go , I have no complaints . It's a beautifully shot film . It's got some wonderful locations . The streets of 1954 Tokyo make for a fascinating setting for an American movie . And , it was shot in Cinemascope . - So what keeps me from rating it any higher ? The simple answer is The Writing . It's just not interesting . Far too much time is spent on one of the silliest romances I've ever seen . A woman's husband has died and she immediately falls in love with the next man she meets . It's sappy , corny , and totally unbelievable . There is far too little action . We only see the gang pull off one very quick holdup . And the dialogue doesn't resonate with me . Ryan doesn't sound like what I would expect the leader of a gang of thieves to sound . And the dialogue between Stack and Shirley Yamaguchi can be cringe inducing in places . - Still , House of Bamboo has enough going for it that I did find some enjoyment in watching it . If nothing else , it's a interesting time capsule on an era long gone . And , personally , I got a kick out of seeing cult hero Cameron Mitchell in a very early role .
I always think of bees when I'm looking for relaxation	Vicki Robbins ( Suzanna Leigh ) is a singer in bad need of a rest . Her doctor contacts his friend , Ralph Hargrove ( Guy Doleman ) , with a farm on a remote island that promises to provide Vicki the relaxation she desperately needs . When Vicki arrives , she discovers that Mr . Hargrove raises bees . So when Mr . Hargrove starts acting suspiciously and people begin dying from deadly bee attacks , it's natural for Vicki to suspect her host . But is Mr . Hargrove behind the trouble on Seagull Island ? Given the names behind The Deadly Bees , it's understandable to hope , if not expect , something better than this . Even with Amicus Productions , Freddie Francis , and Robert Bloch involved with the movie , there are far too many problems to call The Deadly Bees " good " . Three prime examples of the movie's many faults include : - Special / Visual Effects ? Most people tend to focus on the bee attacks when discussing the effects found in The Deadly Bees . And with good reason ? they're bad . But the bee effects practically shine in comparison with the matte painting used as the background for the farm . In a word , it's pitiful . It wouldn't fool anyone . - Characters ? None of the characters involved with the plot are in any way likable . Even the films heroine , Vicki Robbins , hasn't got much going for her . And that makes it almost impossible to root for her or care what happens to her when she comes across as so unlikable . - Plot ? For a movie that throws one red herring after another at the audience , it's too easy to see the outcome of The Deadly Bees from a mile away . None of the many plot twists actually work . Only the incredibly dimwitted characters in the movie like Vicki Robbins would find the outcome mysterious in anyway . There are more . I haven't even mentioned the unforgivably large plot holes or the ridiculous lapses in logic . But regardless of The Deadly Bees myriad of problems , I can't bring myself to rate the movie any lower than . Why ? Despite itself , The Deadly Bees never fails to provide me with some degree of entertainment . Otherwise , how can I explain why I've now seen the movie at least three times ? And , as I've always said , entertainment is the most important thing when it comes to movies and the reason I watch them .
" Hiya , dolls . Glad to hear you're on our side . "	When a mysterious ray destroys a space station and sends a spaceship hurtling off course , a group of astronauts finds themselves on a strange , seemingly deserted planet . Seemingly deserted , that is , until the inhabitants of Venus make themselves known to the astronauts and take them prisoner . The first thing the group of Earthlings notices ( and how could they help but notice ) is that Venus is inhabited by women only ? there are no men . Fearing the group of men might be an advance team scouting for a possible invasion from Earth , the Venusian Queen sentences the astronauts to death . But a scientist named Talleah ( Zsa Zsa Gabor ) would rather make love - not war . She leads a group opposed to the Queen's ways and does what she can to help the men escape . Queen of Outer Space is another of those movies that I find very difficult to rate . On the one hand , you've got an incredible amount of camp appeal . The movie is a mix of Zsa Zsa as a scientist who can't stand still without posing , some inspired set design , vivid colors , leggy Venusian women in short skirts and high-heels , wacky dialogue delivered with a completely straight face , arcane sexist jokes , and some of the best unintentional ( at least I think it was unintentional ) humor you can find . It's so completely off the wall and deliciously silly that I cannot help but like it . But where there's one hand , you usually find the other . The movie has its share of problems that I cannot overlook . Chief among them is some very uneven pacing and a plot that has a tendency to drag . Add to that some less that stellar acting from some of cast and what seems to be disinterest on the part of others , I can't rate Queen of Outer Space as high as I would like . In the end , I've taken the easy way out once again . I've split the difference and given the movie a - while it may be a camp lover's dream , there are problems that kept me from fully enjoying the Queen of Outer Space .
" Anymore guff out of you and I'll turn you over my knee and spank you . "	The plot of Project Moon Base is fairly simple ? Colonel Briteis is selected to pilot a rocket on a lunar orbit in preparation of an upcoming lunar landing . It's simple enough until it is discovered that an enemy agent is on board with intentions of sabotaging the mission . So whether their superiors like it or not , Colonel Briteis and Major Moore aren't going to be able to complete their mission . They're going to have to try to land on the moon . Many of the comments you'll see on Project Moon Base focus a lot of attention on the movie's treatment or portrayal of women . Is the movie sexist ? Those who argue against it mention Colonel Briteis ' ( Briteis is a female ) position on the space voyage or the fact that the President is a woman . Well so what ? Project Moon Base is as sexist as they come . I pointed out some of the sexist comments in Rocketship X-M and that movie's got nothing on Project Moon Base . From the intentional mispronunciation of Colonel Briteis name ( Bright Eyes ? yeah , right ) to General Greene's threat to give Briteis a spanking to Briteis ' incapability of fixing the radio after several hours of trying when Major Moore is able to do it in mere seconds ? it's about as sexist as I've seen . Sure , it was made in a different time , so don't take my comments as a slam . I'm just pointing out the facts as I see them . Two things I'm glad to have discovered about Project Moon Base . First , the movie was originally meant to be a television serial . That goes a long way to explaining some of the disjointed scenes and fragmented story lines . Second , many of the props and costumes were also used in Cat Women of the Moon . I thought they seemed awfully familiar . Glad to know I'm not going crazy . Overall , Project Moon Base is a fairly dull programmer with little to hold the attention of the viewer . There aren't any real action scenes and any suspense or drama never materializes . Even by 1953 standards , the special effects had to feel weak and not awfully convincing . Finally , much of the plot is handled rather awkwardly . The notion of an enemy agent infiltration the space program might have been interesting , but here it comes off as just too stupid for words . As is the case with many of the films I watch , there is another hand . So , on the other hand , Project Moon Base is too enjoyable despite the numerous flaws for me to rate it as a stinker . Donna Martell gives Colonel Briteis an infectious nature that's hard not to enjoy . She's a pleasure to watch . Some of the goofy sight gags are almost charming in their navet . Take the scenes on the space station where people walk on the ceiling or the chairs on the wall . Stupid , sure ? but fun nonetheless . Finally , there's a real innocence to most everything in Project Moon Base that's often sorely missing from today's movies that I can appreciate . Take the ending of the film where Colonel Briteis is forced to marry Major Bill Moore so people won't talk . And , even though the attitudes of the filmmakers may have been chauvinistic , most of it is harmless enough . Maybe I'm living in the past , but I sort of enjoyed Project Moon Base .
It's the same joke over and over and over . . . . .	- Elvira moves to a small town to claim her inheritance - an old , rundown house . Although most of the townspeople don't approve , the kids in town are only too happy to help her fix-up her house . Elvira finds what she believes to be a cookbook in the house . Her uncle offers to buy it from her , but she won't sell . The book , it seems , contains more than ordinary recipes . It's a book of spells that Elvira must learn to use to save herself and the town . - I've seen this movie several times over the years . And with each viewing , I find myself enjoying it less and less . Elvira is a one note character - boob jokes . And , while some of the jokes are funny the first couple of times , the jokes get tired real quick . Without the comedy , Elvira becomes little more than a bad actress in a very revealing dress . - The brightest spot in the movie is Edie McClurg . She's one of those people that can make me laugh regardless of how bad the material may be . When you see her , she's the exact opposite of what you expect a comedian to look like . And she uses that to her advantage here playing the holier than though Chastity Pariah . - Even though Elvira , Mistress of the Dark may not be as good in my eyes as I once thought it was , it's still miles better than Elvira's second movie , Elvira's Haunted Hills - another one joke movie .
" Beware of spider who invites fly into his place for tea . "	On the eve of war in France , Charlie Chan is visiting with old friends in Paris . When a leading industrialist is murdered , Chan agrees to help out the local police to solve the murder . Chan will have to sift through a web of international intrigue to find a killer . Charlie Chan in City in Darkness was one of the very last Chan films I had not seen . And I can't tell you how disappointed I am in the movie . Briefly , it doesn't have the feel of a Chan film . It's not so much a murder mystery as it is an espionage thriller . And Chan isn't a central character as much as he is a bystander . He just happens to the there . And where was Jimmy ? What's a Sidney Toler Chan film without # 2 son ? It's not the kind of movie I was hoping for . This is the third Chan film I've seen with Harold Huber . His broad , almost comical characters are always a distraction . But in Charlie Chan in City in Darkness he's really out of place . The tone of this film is too serious for Huber's brand of over-acting . Another disappointing facet to this Chan installment .
Fairly standard stuff	A drug deal goes bad and the heroin is stolen . One mob boss doesn't have his drugs and the other doesn't get his money . People are going to die until they discover who double-crossed them . Into this backdrop , Inspector Dario Mauri ( Luc Merenda ) arrives from Milan to help clean-up Naples . His mission ? find the drugs and stop the killing . Even though I knew this was a first time viewing , throughout A Man Called Magnum , I had an odd feeling that I had seen the movie before . Then , it dawned on me ? change the locations , take out the nudity and blood , and put in a few American actors and , voil , what you've got is essentially the same as any number of American cop television shows from the 1970s . It's not that A Man Called Magnum is bad , there's just nothing spectacular about it . We've all seen it before . The gun battles , car chases , and fistfights are strictly by the numbers and lack originality . I also had problems relating to the main character , Inspector Dario Mauri . The movie gives less detail about him than even the most minor of characters . Not to mention that what we do know makes Dario seem pretty dull . And it's difficult for me to invest any real emotion in such a lifeless character . There are a few highlights such as the camera work , the score , the locations , and the idea of the little girl drawing pictures to send to the police as clues . The movie presents a lot of images from unique angles . The camera work rises above the rest of this ordinary film . The score is full of those funky 70s sounds that I always enjoy . The locations are fascinating . You can't find places like that in America . It's distinctly Italian . Finally , the girl and her crayon are an interesting twist . It's too bad that A Man Called Magnum never takes full advantage of this plot point the way it could have .
With better dubbing , this might be a good film	- Two female detectives are hired to find a missing woman . They soon discover that their missing woman is only one of many models and dancers who have vanished . The trail leads to an artist who paints and sculpts women at the time of their deaths . His work is eerily reminiscent of the woman they're looking for . - Two Undercover Angels appears to have been an attempt by Franco to cash-in on the success of James Bond and other spy movies of the 60s . While this was the first " Red Lips " movie that Franco made , I unfortunately saw the sequel , Kiss Me Monster , first . Two Undercover Angels is miles ahead of the sequel by having something of an understandable plot ( I would argue that the second in the series had no plot ) , acting , sets , and every other way imaginable . A lot of the jokes ( this is a spoof after all ) work in this movie . - While this movie may be better than it's successor , that's not to say it's a particularly good movie . Part of the problem , unfortunately , comes from the dubbing . I'm not one to complain about dubbing , but this may be the worst I've heard . It's hardly the fault of Franco or anyone else involved in making the movie , but it's still a distraction . The bad dubbing may be partially responsible for the confusion I had from time-to-time following the plot . But Franco's style of storytelling doesn't help much either . He introduces new characters on a regular basis that add little or nothing to the proceeding but to confuse the issue . As soon as you think you've gotten a handle on a new character , they disappear never to be seen again . - The two detectives mentioned in the title are played by Janine Reynaud and Rosanna Yanni . At least from appearances , they appear to be having a good time with their roles . There is a sense of humor and ease with which they work together that helps to make-up for some of the movie's shortcomings . - If someone were to ask me for a good place to begin discovering Franco , this is not where I would advise them to begin . Seek out Venus in Furs or The Diabolical Doctor Z for a place to start with Franco .
Better than its reputation would suggest	- A small group of people become shipwrecked on a seemingly deserted island . When one member of their group is attacked by a hideous looking female , the others realize they are not alone . Following the sound of a drum , the groups stumbles upon a Nazi encampment where all sorts of experiments are performed on several caged females . The group is discovered and must fight for their lives if they aren't to become the next Nazi casualties . - I found She Demons much better than its reputation would suggest . I can obviously see the problems with the movie , but much of it is enjoyable in a corny , cheesy , 50s sort of way . Any movie with Nazis on a tropical island in 1958 has to have some fun , goof-ball moments . And the production values are above average for a 50s B-quickie like this . Many of the stage-bound sets overcome their limited budgets . - And then there's the cast . The survivors are as unlikely a group as you'll see . First , there's the rich , spoiled beauty played by Irish McCalla . She has a way of delivering lines as I would imagine a living statue might - very little real emotion . Second is our hero played by Tod Griffin . A more buffoonish lead I've never seen . He's one of those guys you see in older movies who insists on pulling up his pants to his armpits . He also is fond of spouting some incredibly silly dialogue . Finally , Victor Sen Yung is the flunky . He was annoying as Charlie Chan's Number 1 son and is equally annoying here . He has the same delivery and tries out some of the same lame jokes . - One scene in She Demons warrants special mention . When our group of castaways comes across the Nazi doctor , they naturally ask about his fiendish plan . What follows is the usual Mad Scientist Reveals His Whole Plan Scene . But this one is more detailed that most . His response has to be the longest explanation a mad genius ever gave in a movie . It goes on and on and on . . . I found it to be quite a hoot . - If you're a fan of silly 50s horror / sci-fi movies , you might find a thing or two to enjoy here .
Not as good as I remembered	My wife got me this for Christmas and as I was babysitting three year old , I put it in . I doubt I had seen Mad Monster Party ? since 1970 . I remember it being a favorite of mine at the time . And it was a hit with the three year old I was babysitting . But , it's lost some of the magic it once held for me . I found most of it disjointed , and as a result , dull . The movie skips from one unrelated scene to the next . The plot , as it is , provides very little cohesion . The lack of a decent plot made much of the movie downright dull . That's not to say there weren't some good moments , they were just few and far between . Boris Karloff adds some dignity to the movie , but this is almost entirely offset by Phyllis Diller . How annoying ! Some of the creatures are quite good . I was particularly struck by the Hunchback . Gale Garnett is also good as the voice of Francesca . Francesca reminded me a bit of Jessica Rabbit - she's not bad , she's just drawn that way . There's also some swinging 60s music that is particularly good . Some of the music had a James Bond type feel to it . Some of you may say , " It's a kid's movie . Give it a break . " I know that and I really hope my son will one day enjoy it like I once did . For a young child , it's a good first glimpse at the classic horror characters . This may be a little harsh , but for what it's worth , I'll give it a . ( The three year old I was watching it with would probably give it a . )
" I've seen enough horror movies to know any weirdo wearing a mask is never friendly . "	- What an original idea for a movie ! A group of kids goes into the woods near Crystal Lake . One by one , they're butchered by an undead madman named Jason . Roll credits . That's pretty much the entire movie . Wake me when it's over . - Actually , this Friday sequel is a little better than most . While the plot ideas are nothing new , Director / Screenwriter Tom McLoughlin attempts to bring a level of intelligence to the proceedings . Some of the dialogue is at least witty . It might have been interesting to see what he would have done with the series had he been brought on earlier before the concept became so tired . - The acting is nothing spectacular . In fact , I can't remember anyone who stood out . The special effects are the highlight of the movie . The opening scene in the graveyard with the maggot covered Jason is quite good . The film suffers tremendously from MPAA cuts . Most of the effects are shown only in very brief glances . - In short , Part VI is far from worst of the series , but it certainly isn't the best .
Too unbelievable for me to enjoy completely	I didn't think it was possible for Otto Preminger and Gene Tierney to make something this un-extraordinary . Preminger does a decent job with the direction , the acting ( other than Richard Conte who comes across as a stiff ) is fine , and the movie looks good . So what went wrong ? The plot has so many points that stretch believability to the limit that I couldn't ever " get into " Whirlpool . There's too much of that psycho-mumbo-jumbo that really annoys me . What I know about hypnosis wouldn't fill a thimble , but I simply refuse to believe it's possible to use in the manner presented in this film . Without a strong grounding in reality as I understand it , an otherwise normal film about a murder isn't believable . I would love to go into more detail , but I don't want to ruin the film for those who haven't seen it . Just trust me when I say that what Jose Ferrar's character is capable of is as far-fetched as any fantasy film I've seen .
Not the way I remembered it	I saw The Final Terror in the theater in 1983 . For 22 years , I've had fond memories of the movie and have considered it one of the better slasher films of the 80s . I re-watched it the other day and realized that time has not been kind to this movie . It's not the way I remembered it . I remembered a fairly innovative movie about a backwoods killer . In reality , it's all pretty standard stuff . There's really nothing here to get all that excited about . As for the killer , I normally complain that the killers in these movies have too much screen time . But in The Final Terror , by the time the killer shows up , the movie is over . Sadly , it appears that I've been wrong about this movie for over two decades . The Final Terror will be remembered for one thing , though ? the cast . Even if you don't recognize the names , most movie fans will recognize more than a few of the faces . Darryl Hannah , Rachel Ward , Joe Pantoliano , and a few others have appeared in a surprising number of memorable movies and television series .
" The truth is just a lie that hasn't been found out . "	Sam Peckinpah is one of my favorite directors . I'll always see him as a visionary maverick responsible for crafting some of the most enjoyable movies I've ever seen . His The Wild Bunch and Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia are among my favorite films . His last film , The Osterman Weekend , is something of a mixed bag . On the positive side , it has several good action set pieces that are very reminiscent of the other films I've mentioned . Scenes of bullets and arrows flying through the air and a particularly brutal fight scene with a bat filmed in slow-motion remind me of Peckinpah's glory days . Unfortunately , there's a plot in there that gets in the way of the fun . I've seen The Osterman Weekend twice now and I'm as confused about some of the events in the movie as I was the first time I saw it . I don't know if it was just Peckinpah being stubborn , but it feels unnecessarily confusing . There are plot points that go nowhere , plot holes big enough to drive the proverbial truck through , and plot twists that don't work . After a good set-up , the movie simply loses its way . A script that didn't try so hard to be clever and secretive and some judicious editing might have made The Osterman Weekend a winner .
" Pay attention , 007 ! "	I'm a James Bond fan from way back . Some of my fondest memories of growing-up are James Bond movies on the ABC Sunday Night Movie . If Bond was going to be on , I couldn't wait . So it pains me to give a James Bond movie anything but a stellar rating as I've done with Octopussy . I saw it in the theater in 1983 and was terribly disappointed . Watching last night , my opinion has not changed in the 24 or so intervening years . It may not be the worst Bond movie ever made , but it comes close . To write in detail about all of the problems I have with Octopussy would be unwieldy to say the least . Instead , I'll mention two examples that nicely encapsulate my issues with the movie . First , as many have mentioned in comments and reviews on the internet , Octopussy begins with a very well done pre-title sequence . The aerial chance sequence is a rip-roaring success . Bond lands his plane and pulls it up into a service station parking lot . It's unfortunate that the director chose this moment to have Roger Moore open his mouth and destroy the great start . Bond looks at the gas station attendant and in the smuggest manner possible says , " Fill it up . " That's right , " Fill it up . " Give me a break ! I'm cringing all over again just thinking about it . I suppose that at the age of 56 , Moore could no longer pull off the James Bond role physically so they resorted to comedy . Well , the quipping , one-line machine that James Bond became during the time Roger Moore played the character is not the James Bond I enjoy . Sure , Connery used comedy , but it was more of an after thought . In contrast , I sometimes get the feeling with Moore that the elaborate stunts and special effects were done just to set-up a one-liner . I realize that this is an exaggeration , but it pretty well sums up my feelings on the matter . The second example I'll cite occurs very near the end of Octopussy just as James Bond arrives at the circus with the intention of disabling the nuclear weapon . The chase between Bond and the clueless authorities takes him in and around the circus performers ' trailers . Seizing an opportunity , Bond ducks into a trailer to avoid being caught . Now , grabbing something to use as a disguise makes sense , but does Bond do that ? No ! He actually takes the time to put on full clown make-up complete with the tear on the cheek ! Huh ? He has something like less than five minutes to disarm an atomic bomb and he stops to put on clown make-up ! Again ? give me a break ! And exactly how did he put on that make-up in less than a couple of minutes ? James Bond movies have always asked the audience to stretch believability , but this is utterly ridiculous . He can do a lot of things , but James Bond cannot stop time . I suppose the whole point of the scene is to get Roger Moore into the goofy clown make-up . James Bond ? the Clown . Kind of gives some insight into what the producers , etc . thought of the character . There are other issues I have with the movie that I could write about including the ridiculous crocodile boat , Roger Moore's all too obvious stunt-double , the incredibly lame title theme song , or Kristina Wayborn's weak attempts at acting . But I've already concentrated enough on the negative aspects . And it's not as if Octopussy is all bad . This is James Bond after all so there is some fun to be had . But if a fanboy like myself can rate a James Bond movie a very pedestrian , well then you know it has problems .
Something of a letdown	During an experiment with a hallucinogenic drug , model Valentina ( Nieves Navarro aka Susan Scott ) sees a woman being brutally murdered by a man wearing a spiked iron glove . But when no body is found , she can't seem to get anyone to believe her story . She begins to see the killer everywhere she goes . She's sure her life is in danger and is unable to convince her friends or the police that she's being stalked by a vicious murderer . I had high hopes for Death Walks at Midnight having just seen and enjoyed Death Walks on High Heels . The two movies have so much in common that it seemed like a sure thing . While not being a sequel , the two movies share a director , a number of actors , and a convoluted plot . But while I found the twists and turns in Death Walks on High Heels a joy to watch unfold , Death Walks at Midnight is a little too convoluted for its own good . Story lines are introduced and almost dropped immediately with no resolution . These story tangents have nothing to do with the plot other than muddying the waters . Characters are introduced with no background information and almost immediately forgotten about . Too many of the characters never seem " real " or fleshed-out and are not effective red herrings . And , I almost get the feeling that much of the movie is weird for the sake of being weird . There's no real purpose for many of the unusual events , people , places , etc . in Death Walks at Midnight other than adding some bizarreness to the proceedings . For example , why even have the asylum scene ? It adds nothing to the film . The problems with the plot are really disappointing because not only did I enjoy the first movie , but Death Walks at Midnight's screenplay was written by Sergio Corbucci . Corbucci directed some of my favorite Spaghetti Westerns . But here , he's written what I'll describe as a spastic script that tries too hard to be different . That's not to say the movie was a total waste of time . There are a number of things I really enjoyed about Death Walks at Midnight . First would have to be Nieves Navarro . As I said when writing about Death Walk on High Heels , Navarro is excellent in this kind of film . She's a natural playing the " Woman in Distress " . Navarro has a real , undeniable screen presence . Second would have to be the spiked glove . It's as nasty a murder weapon as you'll see . Finally , I like the overall look of the film . Ercoli had a real eye for some interesting visuals . In the end , I can't wholeheartedly recommend Death Walks at Midnight to anyone other than a die hard Giallo fan . There are far better , more entertaining examples of the genre that might appeal more to the casual fan .
Heavily " influenced " by Hercules in the Haunted World	- Hercules ( Reg Park ) sets out on a quest to save his son's soul from the evil Earth Goddess Gia . He must battle all sorts of monsters , get past numerous obstacles , and resist temptations if he is to save his son . What Hercules doesn't know is that while he is away , Gia sends Antaius ( her rotten son ) to impersonate Hercules . Antaius reigns over the people as a cruel , heartless king . Can Hercules get back in time to save the people ? - It's not that Hercules the Avenger is a bad movie , it's just not very original . If you've seen Mario Bava's Hercules in the Haunted World ( a much superior movie ) , then you've seen some of the best this movie has to offer . The similarities go beyond the obvious - Reg Park , a daunting quest , ocean voyages . etc . The similarities extend to actual set pieces . For example , in both films Hercules must traverse a rope over a boiling pit of lava . Another example , in both films Hercules must do battle with flying zombie type creatures . In addition , Lucidi copies some of Bava's style . The underground scenes in this movie are lit with the same colored gels used by Bava . The things taken from Hercules in the Haunted World were so obvious , I half expected to see Christopher Lee waiting for Hercules at the end of his journey . - According to IMDb , this was the last time Reg Park would play Hercules . Other than Steve Reeves , I think he was the best actor / body builder to play the role . But after taking one look at Park in Hercules the Avenger , I'm glad he gave it up . He looks terrible . By 1965 , he was no longer the chiseled specimen as featured on the DVD cover . Instead , he looks more likely to be playing Bluto than Hercules . - With everything I've written being so negative , I'll finish by saying you could do far worse than Hercules the Avenger . The new Region 1 DVD ( with Hercules and the Black Pirate a bonus ) is probably as good as this movie ever looked .
" I am the last gladiator in the New Rome . "	- Evel Knievel purports to be a biography of the life of the real Evel Knievel . The movie presents stories and episodes from different periods throughout his life . We see Evel as a young boy in Butte , Montana . We see him grow to become a local hoodlum . We see him meet , date , kidnap , and marry his wife . We see him on his first paying job as a motorcycle daredevil . We see him in the hospital after his horrific crash at Ceasar's Palace . All of this is presented in a series of flashbacks as Evel prepares himself to make a jump over 19 cars . - I have no idea how much of what is presented is true . I feel confident , however , that there are quite a few dramatic licenses taken with Evel's life . For example , I sincerely doubt someone could be responsible for two dynamite explosions in the City Hall on the same night and no one notice who was responsible . Don't you think the police might have asked the local dynamite dealer if anyone had recently made a purchase ? I sincerely believe Evel would have spent a considerable amount of time in prison if this episode of his life , as presented , were true . - The " Tan Man " , George Hamilton ( who also produced the movie ) , plays Evel . And while he may bear no resemblance to the real man , he does a decent job copying Evel's walk and speech pattern . - While the movie is not great , there are a couple of moments in the film that make it worth watching at least once .
Fred Williamson & Pam Grier - Together !	Duke Johnson ( Fred Williamson ) comes to Bucktown to bury his brother and settle his business . A few locals talk Duke into staying on and re-opening his brother's bar . The locals , however , don't tell Duke how his brother really died or about the racists that run Bucktown . Duke enlists some out-of-town friends to help him deal with his problems . With his black friends in power , things should be looking up for Duke . But he soon realizes that regardless of skin color , power corrupts . Once again , Duke must fight for what he believes in . I suppose the biggest reason to see Bucktown is the chance to catch Fred Williamson and Pam Grier in the same movie . They're dynamite together and exhibit some real chemistry . I was impressed with Williamson in particular . I've seen too many movies from later in his career where he sleepwalks his way to a paycheck . Not here . He really seems to be into it . As for Grier , she's terrific . The supporting cast is exceptionally strong for this kind of movie . Thalmus Rasulala is an actor who has always impressed me and he does nothing to change my opinion in Bucktown . Carl Weathers and Tony King also give nice performances . But nobody goes into a movie like this for the acting . The action and fight scenes in Bucktown are wonderful . Fists , knives , guns ? this movie has it all and does it all very well . The fight choreography and staging is about the best I've seen in a Blaxploitation movie . Very nicely done ! But as much as I enjoyed the actors and the action , I still can't rate Bucktown higher than a . Why ? The movie makes no sense . Maybe I should just suspend logic and go with it , but I can't . In my way of thinking , you just can't kill a bunch of people without some sort of reprisal . A whole load of lawmen are killed and no one seems to take notice ? I don't care if they were good-for-nothing racists , someone ( State officials , family members , concerned citizens , , etc . ) would surely take notice and come to town to do something about it . And if the State or whoever isn't going to do anything about all the killing , don't you think the Army would take notice of someone stealing one of their vehicles ? I'm sorry , but there's no logic to any of it .
Okay , but needs more	While every attempt was made to pack this nine minute documentary on the movie Wrong Turn with a lot of different and varied information , it's just too short to be very effective . This type of " behind the scenes " documentary works best with at least a thirty minute run time . Otherwise , too many interesting and informative bits are cut too short . Don't watch this if your expecting an in-depth study of any area of Wrong Turn . However , what is presented is generally well done . The stories of selecting the director , the inbred hillbilly make-up , and other parts do provide the viewer with a taste of how the movie came to be . The make-up portions were easily my favorite . It was very interesting to see the mountain men without their make-up .
Wee Willie Davis vs . Tor Johnson	In Abbott and Costello in the Foreign Legion , Bud and Lou head to Algieria to find a wrestler named Abdullah who left them high and dry and owing a mobster quite a bit of money . Once there , the boys get mixed up with Sheik Hamud El Khalid ( Douglas Dumbrille ) and draw his ire at a slave auction . In their attempt to escape , Bud and Lou inadvertently sign-up for the French Foreign Legion . Things only get worse when they learn that their Sergeant is in cahoots with the Sheik . Now how are they going to get back to Brooklyn ? As a general rule , I'm a fan of A & C . Some of their movies ( like Who Done It ? , Hold that Ghost , and A & C Meet Frankenstein ) I consider to be true classics . Unfortunately , by the time the boys made A & C in the Foreign Legion , much of their comedy had started to get tired and old . The movie has a " been there , done that " feel to a lot of it . For example , the " Oui vs . We " bit reminds me of several of A & C's more classic routines . Or take a look at the scene with the fish and the false teeth . To me , it shows how desperate the boys were . It's completely ridiculous and not in the least bit funny . A solid cast , however , almost makes this movie worthwhile . Douglas Dumbrille and Patricia Medina are a lot of fun . However , even though I think Dumbrille makes for a perfect villain , he's about as Algerian as I am ( which is none ) . Finally , one thing I really enjoyed about A & C in the Foreign Legion was the chance to see some classic , old-school wrestlers . Wee Willie Davis vs . Tor Johnson ! How cool is that ?
An odd mix of blaxploitation , martial arts , and espionage / spy thriller	Jefferson Bolt ( Fred Williamson ) is a courier hired to take $1 million from Hong Kong to Mexico City via Los Angeles . Upon arriving in Los Angeles , however , Bolt quickly realizes he's been double-crossed . After a friend is killed and Bolt learns the money he's been hired to carry may be counterfeit , Bolt heads back to Hong Kong to get revenge on those who set him up . But that will mean he'll have to face a crime boss named Kumada and his army of trained martial arts killers . If nothing else , you've got to give the people responsible for That Man Bolt a little credit for trying something new . That Man Bolt is an odd mix of blaxploitation , martial arts , and espionage / spy thriller ? and it almost works . The main problem is that the movie is about 20 minutes too long and the plot is so convoluted that it's impossible to follow or care about what's going on . One minute the money is counterfeit - then it's real - then it's counterfeit - then it's real . . . After a while , I stopped caring . Some judicious editing might have saved Bolt and turned it into something really special , because the movie had potential . Bolt is played by the always cool Fred Williamson . What he may lack in acting ability he makes up for by being the baddest dude around . The supporting cast isn't too shabby either . Teresa Graves and Byron Webster really stand out . Finally , the whole international jet-set feel of That Man Bolt really works . Locations as diverse as Macao and Las Vegas give the movie sort of a James Bond feel . Unfortunately , the unwieldy script keeps That Man Bolt from being anything better than average .
Pam goes to prison - again !	If you're a fan of either early Pam Grier or 70s Women-in-Prison ( WIP ) flicks , I'm sure this plot synopsis will sound eerily familiar : Two women are taken to an all-women's prison in the middle of the jungle in some unnamed Banana Republic . There the women are forced to endure physical torture , unwanted sexual situations , and working in the fields . With very little provocation , the two women become enemies and start a fight in the prison cafeteria . More scenes of torture until the women decide to work together to make their escape only to have what seems like everyone ( police , gangsters , bounty hunters , revolutionaries ) on their trail . It's like dj vu all over again . As far as WIP / exploitation films go , Black Mama , White Mama is neither the best nor worst I've seen . It's just about average . Other than having the two main characters chained together ( which isn't really that novel an idea ) , no new ground is broken in this film . Most everything is standard clich . For example , it takes less than 5 minutes of the movie's runtime for what I call The Required WIP Shower Scene . This one comes complete with a guard ogling the women through a peephole . How original ! Black Mama , White Mama left me with one burning question ? how were these two women able to change clothes , including dressing like nuns , while chained together ? It seems impossible to me .
Solid - but not what i was expecting	My rating of Battle Cry has more to do with my disappointment with the plot than the actually quality of the movie . I knew nothing of the movie before I watched it , but with a name like Battle Cry , I was expecting a war movie along the lines of Battleground ( with which it is paired in the double feature DVD I bought ) . Instead , Battle Cry has more in common with a soap opera than a real war movie . The movie spends over two hours of its time on relationships and love affairs . When the real battle scenes finally begin , they're over and done with in less than 10 minutes . That's not to say I didn't enjoy the stories of the Marines and their women , it's just not what I was expecting . I am sure that on repeat viewings my enjoyment of the movie and rating I've given it will increase . Most of the movie is very well done . Like most other reviews I've read , I am especially fond of the scenes involving Pfc Andy Hookens ( Aldo Ray ) and Pat Rogers ( Nancy Olson ) . I found it a very believable , heartfelt story that's played perfectly by both actors . The rest of the cast is solid and their plot lines are almost as enjoyable . I was shocked at the frank presentation of some of the subject matter in Battle Cry . I can't think of another movie from the 50s , especially a flag-waving war movie , where sex , pregnancy , drinking , and adultery are dealt with so openly . It's a nice change-of-pace from the sanitized WWII movies I've come to expect .
" It was foolish . It was insane . It was fantastic . "	Submarines and ships begin disappearing at an alarming rate near the Arctic Circle . The crew of the Tiger Shark , an atomic submarine , is sent to investigate . They discover a mysterious craft they name the Cyclops because of its one " eye " . When the submarine's torpedoes prove worthless against the Cyclops ' defenses , the decision is made to ram the strange craft . The Tiger Shark appears to have been successful in " killing " the other craft , but it's now stuck in the Cyclops ' outer hull . A team is sent to enter the dormant looking craft to try to free the submarine . But the Cyclops isn't as dormant as it first appears . The men find an alien being very much alive and still determined to take over the world . Overall , The Atomic Submarine is a fun little movie . I see that a lot of people focus on the less than realistic looking miniatures . Why let something like that ruin the rest of the movie ? As I've stated any number of times , I find a certain charm to the low budget special effects found in movies like The Atomic Submarine . I'll cut ' em more slack than I will today's big budget , heartless , CGI effects . Instead of the effects , my problems with the movie lies in the very slow first act and a controversy between two of the characters that feels forced . But once the submarine enters the Arctic waters , things pick-up and it moves at a good , entertaining pace form here on out . The interior shots of the alien ship are especially creepy . It may all be lights , shadows , and noise , but that doesn't make it any less effective . It's downright spooky ! The acting is about what you expect from a mostly veteran cast that includes Dick Foran , Tom Conway , and Arthur Franz ? nothing terrible , but nothing outstanding . The exception is Brett Halsey whose constant pout is a bit much at times . I was excited to see Joi Lansing's name in the opening credits , but soon discovered that her screen-time was limited to about 5 minutes . Finally , I appreciate the chances screenwriter Orville Hampton took with the plot . The idea of an undersea UFO is quite novel as far as I know .
" Get your hands off me , you fat pig dyke ! "	For whatever reason , Quentin Tarantino feels that Switchblade Sisters is Jack Hill's best film . And while I found a lot to enjoy in the movie , it doesn't come close in my mind to equaling some of Hill's other films like Spider Baby or the movies he made with Pam Grier . Not that any of Hill's films are set in reality as most of us understand it , but Switchblade Sisters is just too unrealistic for me rate among his best . The problem is with the casting decisions . The girl gang members aren't threatening . Why would anyone be threatened by Robbie Lee's Lace ? She comes off more as a Girl Scout on her way to sell cookies than a vicious would-be killer . The other girls , from the too soft Donut to the too pretty Maggie , were no more convincing . The guys fair no better . Being stupid is not the same as being tough . I did , however , enjoy the over-the-top plot and action sequences . The final battle between the two gangs , the skating rink scene , and Maggie stealing Crabs ' medallion were all cheesy highlights of the film for me . But my absolute favorite moment comes at the very end of the film . That speech Maggie makes to the cops as they are dragging her off to jail is incredible . Yeah , sure , it's as unrealistic as the cast , but it's a lot of fun . You don't hear dialogue like this just every day ? " No , let me give you some advice , cop . You can beat us , chain us , lock us up . But we're gonna be back , understand ? And when we do , cop , you better keep your ass off our turf , or we'll BLOW IT OFF ! Ya dig ? We're Jezebels , cop - remember that name . We'll be back ! " Awesome stuff !
" I love you , Doug , and I must kill you ! "	Talk about dj vu . I feel like I've seen this movie several times recently . It may be older than either Missile to the Moon , Queen of Outer Space , or Fire Maidens from Outer Space , but I saw those first . So for me , watching Cat-Women of the Moon is like watching what is essentially the same movie for the fourth time . And despite the familiarity and a whole slew of other weaknesses , I found myself enjoying it . The 2 . 5 IMDb rating seems a bit harsh ? especially when you consider the rating for Missile to the Moon . Not only does Missile to the Moon follow almost the exact same plot , but it appears to even reuse some of the props ( giant puppet spiders ) from Cat-Women of the Moon . The story ? five astronauts blast off for the moon only to meet a race of women whose world is slowly being destroyed . The women ( known for some inexplicable reason as Cat-Women in this movie ) want to use the astronaut's spaceship to take them to Earth to find a new world to conquer . Maybe I'm just weird , but I get a kick out of some of the same things that a lot of other comments bang on . Weak set design ( metal rolling office chairs with a seat belts used in the " spaceship " ) , poor special effects ( once again , the giant puppet spiders ) , bad acting ( could Sonny Tufts be any worse ) , and bad science ( just watch as a cigarette burns on the moon ! ) ? you'll find them all in Cat-Women of the Moon . But it's this naivet to the whole thing that I can't help but enjoy . It might not be for everyone , but I'll give it a even with all its flaws .
Some nice shots of a mid-60s Miami	If you take a look at what I wrote about Tony Rome a couple of years ago , you can apply a lot of it to Lady in Cement . Once again , this is a movie that I probably enjoy more than I should . That's because for the most part , it entertains me . Plot details hardly matter as the whole thing is little more than a vehicle for Frank Sinatra to show his supposed coolness . I'll just say that Lady in Cement is well paced with very few dull moments . Other than a handful of really seedy looking locations , it's a harmless enough way to spend an hour and a half . To be as light as much of it is , however , there are a few nice twists and turns along the way . In fact , the identity of one of the killers really caught me off-guard . Sinatra may be the " star " , but he's not the attraction here for me . Instead , Dan Blocker and Raquel Welch are the films highlights ? and in two very different ways . Blocker is very entertaining as the huge behemoth of a man , Waldo Gronsky . And Raquel is equally entertaining in her own way as wealthy socialite Kit Forrest . Finally , as with Tony Rome , I get a real kick out of the shots of a mid-60s Miami . Forty years later it looks almost like a foreign country . I suppose the thing that bothers me the most about Lady in Cement is the amount of lame comedy found in the script ( although the scene with Blocker watching Bonanza on television made me laugh out loud for some reason ) . You'll find comedy in Tony Rome , but I don't remember this much . The worst is the over-the-top gay-bating that Sinatra tries to use as humor . It has a terribly dated feel to it and , as some would argue , is quite offensive .
A favorite as a child	Abbott and Costello get mixed-up with tomb robbers , a dead archaeologist , and a cult of mummy worshipers in this , their last of the Meet the Universal monster films . Growing-up , I thought A & C was the height of comedy gold . I couldn't wait for this movie to appear on the local television listings . Not being 7 anymore , I realize now how unoriginal and tired much of the comedy in A & C Meet the Mummy is . Most of the comedy had been done before and better . For example , the " The Shovel is My Pick " skit is an obvious and inferior rip of their " Who's On First ? " bit . So even though my brain tells me the movie probably isn't as good as the rating I've given it , there's no counting for nostalgic value in things like this . As a 7 year old , my favorite bit in the movie ( and it still is today ) is the whole notion of three mummies ( one real , two fake ) running around the tomb . I still chuckle to myself at the scene where the three mummies back into each other . Also , I get a real kick out of Richard Deacon ( best known for playing Mel Cooley on The Dick Van Dyke Show ) as the leader of the mummy cult , Semu , playing it straight instead of for laughs . I can't think of a more unlikely casting decision .
Not the best Holmes ' film , but still worth a watch	I haven't seen all of Rathbone's Sherlock Holmes films , but of the ones I have been able to check-out , Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror is easily my least favorite . But the problems I have with the film have nothing to do with the modern day setting that so many seem to complain about . In fact , The Scarlet Claw , another modern day Holmes ' film , is my favorite . Instead , I've got a problem with the plot . Holmes chasing Nazis around England just seems a little ridiculous . When I think of Sherlock Holmes I picture him going after clever killers or super-villains like Moriarty - not battling the Third Reich . The film gives Holmes too few opportunities to use his superior intellect or deductive reasoning other than in scenes that don't figure prominently into the outcome of the movie . Instead , he catches the bad guys in this movie the same way any old inferior detective would . There's not much special in the methods he uses to solve the case . But as my rating ( ) indicates , Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror isn't a total waste . Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce are as excellent and entertaining as usual . I could watch the pair do just about anything and find some degree of entertainment . The supporting cast is good with Evelyn Ankers being the highlight for me . She never looked lovelier . Even with a reduced budget , the black & white photography and direction are solid . The film has a look to it that I find pleasing . And regardless of my problems with the plot , it moves at a good pace . Finally , even though the mystery elements are weaker than I would have liked , there was enough mystery keep me at least interested in the movie's outcome . Even though the good outweighs the bad in my mind when it comes to Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror , it's still a weak Holmes ' film . And I would not recommend it to someone just getting into the series . Check out The Scarlet Claw or The Hound of the Baskervilles instead .
Lee Van Cleef & Karen Black - What a Pair ! ! !	- A retired safecracker ( Lee Van Cleef ) is lured out of retirement by the son of one of his buddies who is in trouble . The job - steal a load of diamonds from a warehouse safe . Things go terribly wrong . Van Cleef is wounded and everyone else is dead . Now , Van Cleef must elude the man who set-up the job , the man who owns the warehouse , and the police . It seems that Van Cleef's only ally is a crazy woman ( Karen Black ) who is the only other resident in an abandoned apartment building . - Over the years I've noticed that when the material he's faced with isn't first rate , Lee Van Cleef can overact with the best of them . And that's what he does here . There are many scenes where Van Cleef makes some of the most ridiculous faces for no purposes other than overemphasizing his point . It get very distracting . But in The Squeeze , he's outdone by Karen Black . She chews scenery like her life depended upon it . I just had to laugh a couple of times ( inappropriate times ) because it was all too funny . I suppose that most of the blame for the acting weaknesses could be traced directly to the script . The characters are given some really lame lines . - The story itself is quite nice . There's one double-cross after the next . The ending really caught me off guard . Just when I thought I had things figured out , I was hit with another loop . The plot is the primary reason I've rated this movie as I have . If you're a fan of heist films , much of The Squeeze will appeal to you . - I would be remiss if , even in this short review , I didn't mention the soundtrack . The music is pure ( bad ) 70s disco . The main theme song is especially annoying and presents everything that was wrong with music from this period . Even worse , it's stuck in my head - Oh the Pain !
Yet another two-parter	" The Plot to Kill a City " is actually another two-part episode ( how many does that make so far ? ) . Buck goes undercover as a criminal named Raphael Argus to infiltrate a group known as the Legion of Death . Fortunately for Buck , none of the other members have actually met Raphael Argus ? they only know him by reputation . Buck learns that the group plans to get revenge for one of their members who was killed by the Defense Directorate . Unfortunately , Buck's cover is blown and he'll have to save his own skin if he's to save New Chicago from destruction . Overall , these aren't two of the better episodes of Buck Rogers in the 25th Century that I've watched so far ( okay , I know I've only watched seven episodes , but these two would rank fifth and sixth out of seven ) . There are several problems , but the big one for me is the whole Legion of Death concept . The silly name , the even sillier hand signal , and following the orders of Frank Gorshin do not make for a very intimidating band of assassins . Gorshin is terrible in the part of the group's leader , Kellogg . Besides not looking the part , he continually does some weird thing with his hands that's terribly distracting . John Quade as Quince ( what alliteration ! ) and Nancy DeCarl as Sherese fare no better . That's especially true of Quade who looks ridiculous in his sheep's wool get-up . In fact , other than a lot of boisterous talk , the group of would-be terrorists doesn't do much of anything . Buck should have been able to handle this group with his eyes closed . Without effective bad guys , you don't get a very effective episode ( or episodes as the case may be ) . Even with the problems , this is still Buck Rogers and there's still some fun to be had . From the always enjoyable cheese of the special effects to the outfits worn by Erin Grey ( and in these episodes , Markie Post ) , there's enough here that qualifies as entertainment to keep " The Plot to Kill a City " from being a total disaster . So a seems about right .
" I don't sell shrimp chips . "	Liu Jian ( Jet Li ) is a Chinese policeman sent to France to help with the apprehension of big-time Chinese drug lord . But Jian is quickly double-crossed and finds himself on the run having been accused of murder . The one person who may be able to help him is a drug-addicted prostitute whose child is being held hostage by the same man who set-up Jian - and he's a high-ranking French policeman . Jian and the prostitute make for an unlikely pair , but they'll have to work together to make things right . As an action movie , Kiss of the Dragon gets several things right . Both Jet Li and Bridget Fonda are more than capable of pulling off this kind of movie . Li , in particular , is exceptionally good showing the moves that have made him an internationally acclaimed martial arts star . He does a lot of different moves in the movie but my particular favorite is a quick one involving a pool ball that he sends flying with a well placed foot . Unfortunately , beyond the two stars and a wickedly evil performance by Tchky Karyo , the rest of the movie is pretty average . It's one action / martial arts clich after then next with the child being held hostage the icing on the cake . The only action standard the movie fails to include is letting the male and female leads fall in love with each other . And I'm glad because that would have really ruined the movie . As it is , Kiss of the Dragon is a harmless enough time waster that may lack creativity , but benefits from the presence of Jet Li .
Much better than its reputation would suggest	Tom Stewart ( Richard Carlson ) is getting married in a week . The only problem is that his old flame , Vi Mason ( Juli Reding ) , doesn't want their relationship to end . She confronts Tom in an abandoned lighthouse and threatens to use a stack of love letters as blackmail if he goes through with his wedding . But , as luck would have it , the railing Vi is leaning on gives way . All Tom has to do is reach out and grab her . Instead , Tom watches as Vi plummets to her death . With Vi out of his life , Tom is free to marry his new sweetheart . But is Vi really gone ? Tom begins hearing her voice and seeing her image everywhere he turns . Can Vi stop Tom's wedding from the grave ? Overall , Tormented is an enjoyable little film . It's got its share of problems , but the movie is certainly better than the IMDb rating of 2 . 7 would indicate . While I'm sure that Tormented's low budget nature , spotting acting , and other perceived weaknesses are partly responsible for the rating , I think there are probably some other factors at play here . First , Tormented was produced and directed by Bert I . Gordon . I'm quite confident that there are people out there who just assume that if Mr . B . I . G . had anything to do with it , it's got to be bad . Second , Tormented has appeared on a number of budget DVD releases . Appearing alongside public domain dreck can't be good for a movie's reputation . Finally , Tormented was featured on Mystery Science Theater 3000 . I love ( d ) the show , but I don't subscribe to the notion that all MST3K movies are inherently bad . With all this going against the movie , I'm just surprised the rating isn't any lower . As I said , Tormented is a nice little movie . There are a few very effective , creepy moments as Tom begins to hear Vi's voice . I especially love the disembodied head on the end table . Good stuff ! Another scene that really works for me comes just before the final credits . As far as I'm concerned , the ending shot in Tormented is an inspired moment of genius . Richard Carlson is a solid actor and gives a nice performance , though in all honesty , he's a bit long in the tooth to be playing the role he's asked to here . I also thought that Juli Reding did a nice job . Some of her scenes as Vi torments Tom are choice .
" I'm going to TRANSFORM him , and unleash the savage instincts that lie hidden within "	Tony Rivers ( Michael Landon ) is a troubled teen . His quick temper has way of getting him in trouble . At the insistence of teachers and his girlfriend , he agrees to see a psychiatrist . Unfortunately for Tony , his doctor isn't interested in helping him as much as he is in using Tony as part of his experiments . He sees Tony as the perfect specimen to test his theories on hypnotic regression . But his experiments have a dramatic and horrific effect on Tony , turning him into a snarling werewolf . Despite what I consider to be a ridiculous name , I Was a Teenage Werewolf is quite an enjoyable movie . In fact , it's much better than I ever expected for a Teen Angst / Horror movie starring Michael Landon . While a lot of the film is terribly predictable with some very obvious foreshadowing , it's still a lot of fun ? much more fun than its 3 . 9 IMDb rating would indicate . There are some surprisingly effective scenes in the woods once the werewolf makes his appearance , including one vicious attack on a dog . And , I Was a Teenage Werewolf is easily my favorite thing I've seen Michael Landon appear in . I've never been much of a fan , but he gives a nice performance . In fact , everyone involved gives a good accounting of themselves . So despite the incredibly awful song " Eeny Meenie Minie Moe " ( someone should be flogged for that abomination ) , I'm giving I Was a Teenage Werewolf a slightly better than average rating of .
Something is amiss off the English coast .	Something is amiss off the English coast . A fisherman is killed by what appears to be radiation burns . Soon thereafter , thousands upon thousands of fish wash up and die on the same beach . What's behind the mystery ? All of Britain is soon to know when a giant prehistoric creature goes on a rampage through the streets of London . The Giant Behemoth won't get my award for the best giant creature on a rampage film , but it is entertaining . While Willis O'Brien and the other special effects artists might have done better work in other movies , their efforts here are still a joy to watch . Their work is even more amazing when you consider what they had to work with . The budgets were obviously tight as we see the same car destroyed 3 times in less than 3 minutes . Even though you won't confuse the miniature work here with what Toho was doing at the same time , that only adds to the movie's charm as far as I'm concerned . Gene Evans and ( especially ) Andre Morell give solid performances as the scientists trying to unravel the mystery . My only complaint about the pair is that Evans is a little too rough around the edges to be a real effective movie lead . The rest of the cast is adequate . While The Giant Behemoth is not the kind of special effects extravaganza that seems to appeal to modern audiences , director Eugne Louri keeps things moving at an entertaining pace . In particular , I found the opening scenes set in the village on the coast of Cornwall very creepy and nicely done . For what it's worth , I'll give this one a .
" Spider does not spin web for single fly . "	Charlie Chan arrives in Shanghai to help an old friend with opium smugglers . But when his friend ( One thing you learn if you've seen enough of the Chan films ? it sucks to be one of Chan's old friends . You've got the lifespan of a fruit fly ! ) is murdered , Charlie realizes just how dangerous his quarry is . With the help of # 1 son Lee , can Charlie catch a killer and put a stop to a ring of drug smugglers in the process ? As far as Charlie Chan movies go , Charlie Chan in Shanghai is what I would call slightly below average and one of the weakest of the Warner Oland Chan films . It's watchable enough if you like these movies , but it's nowhere near as good as the best of the series . While it's got most the usual trappings you would expect from a Charlie Chan movie , it lacks an effective central murder case with all the red herrings , suspects , and intrigue that entails . The ring of drug smugglers doesn't provide an adequate substitute . One interesting aspect of Charlie Chan in Shanghai is the development of a more human , caring version of Charlie Chan . First , we get to see Charlie sing a neat little song to the children on board the ship he's traveling . Second , Charlie seems to show a great deal of affection for his son Lee . While both are oddities , neither event is unwelcome .
A tragic life - A tragic death	Based on a true story from 1930 , The Pyjama Girl Case is a difficult movie to categorize . It is more often than not considered an Italian Giallo , but is it really a Giallo ? Even though I've included it on my Top 50 Giallo list , The Pyjama Girl Case differs so much from the model that I'm not sure this label is accurate . There is no black-gloved , masked killer . There is no string of over-the-top murders . The Pyjama Girl Case lacks the stylish look of most Gialli . And , there is no sense of dread or real tension usually associated with the genre . So , why do I include The Pyjama Girl Case on my list of favorite Gialli ? this is not a good answer , but I do it because everyone else does . If it's not a real Giallo , then what is The Pyjama Girl Case ? I would say it best fits in the drama category with touches of a police procedural thrown in for good measure . The Pyjama Girl Case is the story of a mysterious half-burned body found in an abandoned car on a beach . In addition to being burned , the body also shows signs of severe head trauma and a bullet through the neck . The case is particularly interesting to Inspector Thompson ( Ray Milland ) , a retired detective wanting one last case to investigate . Using outdated techniques and very few clues , he is determined to find the killer before he rides off into the sunset . I disagree with a lot of what I've read and feel Milland is one of the films weak points . His crotchety old man routine is rather predictable . His Inspector Thompson is the clich for the " non-conforming just because I'm old " type character . The Pyjama Girl Case's structure can be off-putting to some . In addition to the police investigation , the film also features a concurrent look at the events leading up to the girl's death . It can be confusing at first because of the uncertainty of what's going on , who these people are , and how they relate to each other . But everything works out in the end and all the pieces fall into place . The girl's story is a tragic one . Her life is a series of miserable events ( a bad marriage , a miscarriage , a string of unfulfilling relationships , etc . ) all leading to her brutal murder . The girl is played by Dallia Di Lazzaro in a very memorable and believable performance . She gives her character a sense of depth not often found in Italian movies of this sort . She is easily the highlight of the movie for me .
" You've got to grit your teeth and dance , even when a friend dies . "	For those Lucio Fulci fans who only know him for his films like Zombi 2 or The New York Ripper , I can easily see how Murder Rock could come as something of a shock and disappointment . It has more in common with his film One on Top of the Other than it does the throat-gashing , chest-ripping , eye-gouging films Fulci is famous for . Murder Rock is virtually bloodless . It's odd that during the early to mid-80s , which are arguably Fulci's most violent and lurid period as a filmmaker , he reverted to a relatively tame film like Murder Rock . That's not to say Murder Rock isn't enjoyable . There are enough Giallo elements in the plot involving a series of murders at a New York arts academy that I was reasonably entertained throughout . Murder Rock plays it straight and doesn't bring up some vital piece of information or suspect in the last minute that can sometimes make these films frustrating . However , and I realize that I may sound like I'm trying to have my cake and eat it too , but it's this straightforward approach that is also the film's biggest weakness . It was far too easy for me to spot " who done it " . There are red herrings , but all of them are easily dismissed . I kept waiting for a plot twist that never materialized . One area where Murder Rock excels is in its look . Fulci created a highly stylized world to set this Giallo . There are some interesting camera angles down corridors and through doorways that add a lot of suspense to the film . I was at first put-off by the lighting Fulci used in much of Murder Rock . I began to wonder if all of New York was lit by a slow pulsing strobe . But then I realized how effective this lighting was to Fulci telling his story . A lot can happen in the total darkness between the blinding flashes of light . Technically , I would rate Murder Rock as one of Fulci's best films . Finally , a lot of the reviews I've read on Murder Rock tend to over-focus on the soundtrack . Sure , it's cheesy , outdated , and , at times , inappropriate . I won't deny that . At one point in the movie , I half expected to see Irene Cara pop up to do a song or two . But you've got to consider the timeframe this movie was made . Fame and Flashdance were very popular and Fulci was trying to cash-in on their success . And in that light , I think he was somewhat successful . Keith Emerson's score is a reasonable representation of the music used in movies of this type in the early 80s . Like it or not , it fits the film . I really wouldn't want to change any of it .
" I'll bet if you walk in your sleep , you need a bicycle . "	Lloyd Nolan is Michael Shayne , a private eye hired to keep an eye on a young woman with a penchant for gambling . Shayne intends to save her from herself but ends up as the prime suspect of a murder . Shayne will have to act fast and untangle a web of gambling , drugged horses , a jilted lover , an overly zealous mystery fan , and a dead body if he's to stay out of the County Jail . I had never heard much about the Michael Shayne movies before I found a set of four on DVD . Being a fan of 1940s era mystery / thrillers , I decided to give them a chance . And the ridiculously low price didn't hurt matters any . I was hoping for something along the lines of Charlie Chan or The Thin Man . While I didn't enjoy this , the first in the series , as much as the better known movies I mentioned , Michael Shayne : Private Detective is a decent enough watch and worth the 77 minutes I put into it Lloyd Nolan gives a solid , albeit unspectacular , performance . The problem ? while Nolan is a good actor , he is not what I would call a leading man . Nolan is joined by a capable cast that includes Douglass Dumbrille , Elizabeth Patterson , and Donald MacBride ( who seemed to make a career out of playing the beleaguered , put-upon police inspector ) . Much of the movie has a feeling or atmosphere about it that many of the " light " detective movies of the period had that I find appealing . This feeling was almost undone , however , by a plot that seemed a little overly complicated for a throwaway B-movie . Maybe I was just too tired when I watched , but I found it difficult to follow ? not that any of it was that interesting to begin with . So in the end , while I've given Michael Shayne : Private Detective a , I can't say I'm not a bit disappointed . Here's hoping the next three in the series are even more entertaining .
Not your typical Hollywood vampire movie	- Martin is not your ordinary vampire movie . Instead of hypnotism , Martin ( John Amplas ) uses a hypodermic needle to gain the cooperation of his victims . Instead of fangs , Martin uses a razor blade to cut open a wrist to get the blood he needs . Martin can go out in the sun , does not fear crosses or other religious symbols , and garlic has no effect on him . So , is Martin really a vampire ? Both he and his elderly Rumanian cousin , Tada Cuda ( Lincoln Maazel ) , think so . Upon meeting Martin , Cuda almost immediately calls him " Nosferatu " and says he will first save Martin's soul before killing him . - Again , is Martin a vampire ? The movie is rather purposely ambiguous on the matter . To me it's pretty clear that Martin is a strange , maladjusted , confused boy . Since he was born , he has been told that he suffers from a family curse that forces him to seek blood . He has grown-up in a socially , sexually , and emotionally repressed situation . His desire to drink blood appears to be more of a psychological need than a real physical need . It's not just the blood that he has been trained to think he needs , it is the real need to be close to another human . His family has always looked upon him as a pariah - the cursed one . Drinking the blood brings him a closeness and human contact that he needs . It helps explain why he strips and lays with his victims long after the blood has stopped flowing . It's also ironic that the one person he is able to get close to kills herself out of guilt or some other feeling . Martin refused to spill her blood , yet she ends up doing it on her own . - The movie certainly has its moments and is a wonderful character study . But , in the end , I find Martin to be one of the most depressing movies that I've seen recently . Martin left me cold . And , this is directly related to the rating I've given this movie . It's not that I find fault with Romero's screenplay or direction , he has never done better . The low budget look ( a necessity , not a choice by Romero ) adds impact and power to the already down beat story . The ending is very powerful . But , as I've said before , ultimately I watch movies for entertainment . Some movies are able to make me think while being entertained . I didn't find that to be the case with Martin . While it is a very thoughtful movie , it is not a very entertaining movie . However , with that being said , it's definitely worth another look at a later date .
" I'll never go on a case like this again without a gat . "	On his way to a police convention in New York , Charlie Chan runs into an old friend from Scotland Yard , Hugh Drake . Drake , now employed by military intelligence , is hot on the heels of a saboteur named Paul Narvo . Drake asks Chan to pay him a visit while he's in New York to talk over his case . Chan makes the visit only to find that his colleague has been murdered . If you look through my reviews , it should become apparent that I'm a fan of Charlie Chan . That's why it pains me to admit that I don't really care for Murder Over New York as much as most other fans seem to . Part of the problem is the whole WWII spy angle . I've never much cared for this type of plot when watching a Chan film . I should also point out that I have the same problem with the Basil Rathbone Sherlock Holmes films that deal with WWII espionage . I'd much rather see my favorite film detectives solving murders than chasing spies . Beyond my issues with the plot , I've always had a real problem the solution to the case . There is no way that the audience could hope to play along with Chan and come up with a solution . The movie cheats far too much . There is information known only to Chan that comes up after the killer is identified . All I ask is that movies of this type play fair . From my rating , it's probably obvious that even with the problems I have with the film , I still enjoy it . I mean it's still Charlie Chan after all . Sidney Toler is as enjoyable as ever . Victor Sen Yung is as good , if not better ( meaning less annoying ) , than in some of the previous installments . The rest of the cast is more than serviceable with a fun cameo from Shemp Howard . Like all the other Chan films , this one looks much better than it should . The cinematography is solid . Finally , considering all the problems I pointed out that I have with Murder Over New York , it's a bit odd that I've probably seen it more than any other Charlie Chan film . That's got to count for something .
Thanks , Urko	I guess I'll begin this with the now standard episode number disclaimer . What IMDb lists as Episode 13 is actually Episode 7 . I'm not sure why the episodes originally aired out of order , but the series ' story arc makes more sense if you follow the episode order of the DVD set . Anyway , in " River of Flames " , a hologram of Judy makes an unexpected appearance . Judy asks Jeff and Bill to bring her the laser they salvaged form the spaceship . The Underdwellers need it to create holes in the side of their mountain hideout to vent the rising lava . But before Jeff and Bill can do this , General Urko finds their laser and takes it . Now Jeff and Bill will have to figure out a way to get their laser back if they are to save Judy and the Underdwellers . Overall , " River of Flames " is pretty much an average episode . The highlights include Urko getting the laser and Jeff and Bill's plan to get it back . It was also really cool how Urko accidentally provided the venting of the volcano when he shelled the mountain . One thing that bugged me was Jeff and Bill's reaction to seeing Judy . They've gone several episodes without even mentioning her name and now all of a sudden they're hell-bent on getting her out alive . Finally , I'm interested in seeing how Jeff and Bill's relationship with Krador changes now that they've done something good for him and his people .
This is Episode 5 - not 3	Once again , the episode number listed on IMDb does not agree with the numbers on the DVD . And since the DVD set presents the episode in the correct order , I'm going with it and calling " Lagoon of Peril " Episode 5 ? not Episode 3 as stated on IMDb . Regardless of the number , " Lagoon of Peril " finds Ape City is in an uproar because of the rumors that the planet is being invaded by talking humanoids . It is decided that General Urko will lead an expedition into the Forbidden Zone to look for signs of intelligent humanoids and their spacecraft . Zira and Cornelius warn Jeff and Bill of Urko's intentions . Jeff and Bill set off for the lagoon they landed in to retrieve some supplies before destroying their space capsule . With the apes hot on their trail , there's no time to lose . But the mission gets even more difficult when they find a gigantic creature living in the lagoon . This is a fairly nice , interesting episode . The race to the lagoon is about as suspenseful as you might hope for from an animated series like Return to the Planet of the Apes . An interesting touch is that Nova is now able to speak . That effectively means that the ape prophecies and fears are coming to fruition . The creature in the lagoon is something of a letdown because of the poor state of the animation . A fully animated creature would have made this one really special . Finally , one thing I don't understand is the help that Jeff and Bill get from the Underdwellers in holding up the apes ' progress to the lagoon . Why ? It's not as if they parted on good terms . Maybe I'll get an answer in a future episode .
A new friend	In " Trail to the Unknown " , it's finally time for Bill , Jeff , and Judy to move the humanoids to a more secure location . First by raft and then across the burning desert , the plan is to get as far away from Urko as possible . But along the way , our heroes run into an unexpected surprise - they meet another astronaut named Brent . With Brent's help , they manage to get the humanoids to safety and defeat Urko's latest attack . While " Trail to the Unknown " has some nice moments , overall it's too inconsistent to rate much higher than a . Brent's introduction is the highlight . My reaction was similar in astonishment to that of Jeff and Bill . Another astronaut ! - How cool is that ? But the rest of the episode is pretty much by the numbers . Urko's attack feels uninspired and is there just to kill some time . It's not the full scale invasion he's been promising . The attack is probably there because the writers didn't know what else to do . Still , I'm looking forward to the rest of Return to the Planet of the Apes .
" I'm Going Humanoid Over You "	In " Tunnel of Fear " , Jeff and Bill put their lives on the line as they sneak back into Ape City to find Cornelius and Zira . They hope the pair of simian scientists will help them locate an isolated spot to move the humanoids to so they won't be such sitting ducks for Urko's army . Cornelius gives them a map showing the location of a secluded valley . He also leads Jeff and Bill to an underground river they can use for their escape . Although I admit that it probably helps that I'm getting more and more accustomed to the style of animation , overall , the Return to the Planet of the Apes episodes kept getting better and better . There's a lot to like about " Tunnel of Fear " . Beyond the giant spider in the drainage tunnel and the wild ride over the waterfall , " Tunnel of Fear " features the most original bit I've so far run across . And reading other comments across the internet I see that most people agree with me . Is there anyone who has seen this episode that doesn't remember the song " I'm Going Humanoid Over You " ? It's awesome ! I'd love to have a copy of the song ? or at least the lyrics . It's just too bad the rest of the series couldn't have been this clever .
A lot of fuss over a book	The problem with the episode numbering gets a bit ridiculous with " Terror on Ice Mountain " . IMDb lists it as Episode 12 when , in fact , it should be Episode 6 . Anyway , in this episode , Cornelius has found 2 , 000 year-old book written by humans about a trip to the zoo where apes are kept in cages . Fearing what would happen if Urko were to get wind of this discovery , Cornelius decides the best thing to do is hide the book . He goes to Jeff and Bill for help in building a hot air balloon to take the book to a mountain top hiding place . In route , Cornelius and Bill are blown off course and crash in the mountains . They are rescued by the wise mountain apes . Unfortunately , one of Urko's ski patrols has also spotted Cornelius and Bill and try to capture them . The mountain apes summon their god , a giant ape named Kygoor , to help Cornelius and Bill escape . The plot description may sound interesting , but " Terror on Ice Mountain " isn't nearly as good as it should have been . The problem ? padding . I would guess that half of the episode consists of poorly drawn scenes of a balloon flying , Cornelius and Bill walking through the snow , or gorillas skiing . The actual action ( and I hesitate to use the word " action " when describing anything in Return to the Planet of the Apes ) is limited to just a few minutes . The mountain apes are an interesting touch . Similar to Tibetan monks , they offer a new twist to the whole Planet of the Apes mythos . However , I'm not sure how Kygoor is supposed to fit into things . Ape history , as presented by Dr . Zaius , doesn't have room for a giant , primitive ape-god like Kygoor .
Oosa , Oosa , Oosa	I need to begin this by pointing out that the order of the episodes listed on IMDb does not match the order they appear on the DVD . IMDb lists them in the order they originally aired on television - even though the episodes aired out of order . Otherwise , the whole Return to the Planet of the Apes story arc gets all messed up . So , while IMDb lists the third episode as " Lagoon of Peril " , I'll be calling " The Unearthly Prophecy " the third episode . Clear ? Anyway , in " The Unearthly Prophecy " Jeff and Bill are on the run from the apes when they find an underground passage . It takes them to the Underdwellers ? a strange mutated race of humans . The Underdwellers have their lost comrade , Judy ( who Bill and Jeff have inexplicable not mentioned since she vanished half way through the first episode ) , and worship her as a God . Jeff and Bill are imprisoned but Judy comes to their rescue . They escape , but Judy must remain behind . " The Unearthly Prophecy " is easily the best , most creative episode so far . The underground race may be similar to the humans found in Beneath the Planet of the Apes , but there are enough differences to spice things up . For example , these mutants have the ability to shoot lasers with their eyes . Cool , huh ? It makes the escape that much more difficult . One thing I really found clever in " The Unearthly Prophecy " was the Underdwellers name for Judy ? Oosa . They took the letters U . S . A . and came up with the pronunciation Oosa .
An average Italian crime film	Antonio Mancuso ( Antonio Sabato ) is a small time hood with dreams of moving up in the family . His ambitions lead him to do a job for one of the big bosses in Italy , Don Vincenzo ( Telly Savalas ) . The two strike up a friendship that quickly turns into something of a father / son relationship . They love each other like a father and son would . But when Don Vincenzo begins to show a weakness , Mancuso gathers those loyal to him for a bloody showdown with Don Vincenzo . While not the action overload that many of the Italian cop / crime films tend to be , there was enough going on to keep me interested throughout most of the movie . And while the violence isn't as over-the-top and bloody as some other Polizia I've seen , there are several set-pieces in Crime Boss that feature some well choreographed shoot outs . The final showdown between Mancuso and Don Vincenzo is exciting and heartbreaking at the same time . Finally , a big plus for Crime Boss is Telly Savalas . The guy was just so cool that it's impossible for me not to enjoy his performance here . The biggest problem I have with Crime Boss is with the lead , Antonio Sabato . He's okay , but it's really hard to get excited about the man and care for his character the way you should . He lacks the charisma or the presence or that certain something that the really good Italian action / crime stars had . I'll quite beating around the bush and just say it ? he's dull . Sabato can't hold a candle to the likes of Fabio Testi , Tomas Milian , or Franco Nero .
70s television in all its glory	Season 3 of Charlie's Angels gets off to a bang as the Angels head to Vegas for a double episode with guest star Dean Martin . Watching Deano walk through a casino with a drink in one hand and a cigarette in the other isn't much of a stretch . Martin is a casino owner who has seen a number of unfortunate events around him . Most recently , one of the women working in his casino was killed . The Angels are hired to find out what's behind the series of " accidents " and put a stop to them . Once there , they find no shortage of suspects and it becomes quite obvious that someone doesn't want them to complete their investigation . Yeah , Angels in Vegas is 70s television in all its glory . It's cheesy , unrealistic , and a whole lot of fun . If you're going to enjoy this stuff , you simply cannot take it seriously . And I think that's why it appeals to me . When I watch TV today , everything is so realistic and so serious . Murder scenes are graphic and investigators barely crack a smile . The world is tough enough without bringing it into my living room every night . I want to be entertained . I want escapism . I want to have a good time . And that's just what a show like Charlie's Angels does for me . Angels in Vegas may not be the best episode in the series , but I had a good time with it . It's the kind of television I miss .
Terry-Thomas - Babe Magnet	There's something about the innocence of these early-to-mid 60s comedies that I find enjoyable . These movies aren't as jaded as today's so called comedies , relying on comedy , writing , and the talent of the actors . I'm sure that there are situations in Bachelor Flat that someone in 1962 might have found scandalous , but today I can't imagine anyone batting an eye at the film . Maybe I'm getting old , but in a way I really miss these movies . The plot of Bachelor Flat finds the very British Terry-Thomas playing an anthropologist named Professor Patterson at a California university . For whatever reason , the women in his life are drawn to him like flies to sugar . He's a babe magnet ! This set-up creates quit a few comedic moments as young and old women alike throw themselves at the good professor . Things really get complicated when the 17 year-old daughter of his fianc ( of whom he's unaware ? the daughter , not the fianc ) suddenly shows up at the doorstep of the house he rents from his bride to be . At its worst , Bachelor Flat is a harmless enough diversion . It might not be the best or funniest movie I've ever seen , but I was entertained throughout most of the 91 minute runtime . At its best , watching the stiff , very British Terry-Thomas deal with the multitude of women he finds mysteriously attracted to him is often quite funny . But this is also the film's biggest weakness . Terry-Thomas is best at playing the scheming , conniving villainous role . Being the object of desire to a string of attractive women just doesn't seem right . He's okay in the role , just not a very good casting decision in my opinion . Then again , maybe that's what the people behind Bachelor Flat were going for ? playing Terry-Thomas against stereotype . If that's the case , they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams .
Enjoyable Technicolor Sci-Fi	Dr . Alexander Thorkel , a scientist working in the Amazon jungle , has discovered the secrets of miniaturization . He invites a group of scientists to assist him , but quickly dismisses them once he gets what he wants from them . Thinking they are spying on him , Dr . Thorkel turns his radium experiment on the group reducing each to about twelve inches in height . In their current and miniaturized state , Dr . Thorkel becomes the least of their worries as they attempt to make their escape through the jungle . As I sat and watched Dr . Cyclops for the first time , the thought kept going through my head , " Wow , these are some great effects for the 50s . " It would be an understatement to say that I was shocked after the movie ended and I discovered Dr . Cyclops was made in 1940 . The special effects are amazing . Sure , modern audiences who prefer soulless CGI may find the effects poor or even comical , but they represent a real craft and workmanship that you don't see much anymore . There's an art to the kind of rear projection , split-screen , and over-sized props found in Dr . Cyclops . So when you combine these ahead of their time special effects with the bright , vibrant , beautiful Technicolor used in the filming of the movie , I think it's understandable to see why I was surprised to discover Dr . Cyclops was made some 67 years ago . Beyond the effects , Dr . Cyclops moves at a good pace . Although some aspects of the " mini-humans against nature " plot seem clich today , it held my attention throughout . And , though obviously stage-bound , the sets are more than adequate . On the negative side , the acting is hit or miss at best . While Albert Dekker is more than adequate at playing the subtly sinister title character and Charles Hatton is good as his most capable adversary , Dr . Bullfinch , most of the rest of cast doesn't come across quite so good . I also thought that some of the key plot points were terribly predictable . As an example , from the moment Dr . Thorkel's poor eyesight is made known , is there any doubt this will come into play at some point in the movie ? And I can't end this without mentioning the music ? it's downright annoying . It's that loopy kind of music I associate with a bad kiddie movie .
" Drop dead ! "	Ten Little Indians may not be the best or most faithful Agatha Christie adaptation , but I've always enjoy it . The problem with Ten Little Indians is that it suffers from one of the same flaws that plague most films based on a Christie work ? plot holes . The viewer is required to accept some of the most astounding coincidences in order to move the plot along . How does the killer seem to know exactly how everyone will respond to a given situation ? If you stop and think about it , you'll quickly realize it's all fantasy with little in the way of reality . For example , when the eight " little Indians " split up in pairs to search the house , how fortunate for the killer that every person loses his / her partner thereby throwing suspicion on everyone . That doesn't mean it's not a lot of fun , but you've got be willing to make some mighty big leaps in logic . The thing I enjoy most about Ten Little Indians is the ensemble cast . For the most part , it's made up of some terrific character actors given a chance to shine on their own . Leo Genn , Stanley Holloway , Wilfrid Hyde-White , and Dennis Price are all an absolute joy and more than make up for the leaden performances of Hugh O'Brian and Shirley Eaton . It's too bad these two have more screen time than any of the other actors .
What happened to Dirty Harry ?	- Having been busted down to surveillance duty , Dirty Harry is itching to get back into the real action . A series of murders force his superiors to bring him back . Soon , Harry has his own ideas about the murders - it looks like they're being committed by a policeman . - This Dirty Harry sequel lacks the punch of the original . The plot is pretty much a second rate police story . Anyone can spot the killers from the moment they appear on screen . There is no real suspense or tension . And the finale ends up being very anti-climatic . The movie might have been much better with someone other than Post as director . He did , IMO , another poor job with Eastwood's Hang ' em High
" It's an ugly , dangerous business , Watson . "	This version of The Hound of the Baskervilles is the third I've seen in the past week or so . It's also a first time viewing for me . My initial reaction ? I'm somewhat disappointed based on many of the reviews I've read on IMDb . While I enjoyed it much more than the 1978 abomination , I much preferred the 1983 version ? also a TV movie . There's little doubt that Jeremy Brett makes a fine Sherlock Holmes ( though having grown up with Rathbone , he gets my vote for the best ) and Edward Hardwicke wisely plays Watson less the bumbling fool . The rest of the actors are at least adequate , though I thought Fiona Gillies was horribly miscast as Beryl . The authentic looking locations , both moors and other sets , add a lot to the production . But the weakness in the film is in its direction and pacing . Had director Brian Mills kept things moving at a better pace , it might have been more enjoyable effort . As it is , there are some stretches that are difficult to get through . After a nice start and a decent enough third act ( although it did feel a bit rushed ) , the middle portion of the movie grinds to a halt . Finally , who thought it would be a good idea to color the hound a glowing green color in post production ? It reminded me of something you might see from a poverty row studio of the 1940s .
" Just call me Billie , everyone does . "	Stephen King and George Romero combined their talents to create the 1982 horror / comedy anthology Creepshow . They do an excellent job of giving the whole movie 50s / 60s pulp magazine feel to it . Short stories , vibrant colors , and a nice wrap around sequence contribute to this feeling . Like those pulp magazines , Creepshow is divided into segments or short stories ? five to be exact . While some are more entertaining than others , none are unwatchable . 1 . " Father's Day " ? A murdered man returns from the grave to " get his cake " . The special effects are the highlight of this segment . It may not be as scary as I would like , but it's reasonably entertaining . Rating ? . 2 . " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill " ? A man gets a little to close to a meteorite and finds himself being transformed into a plant . This segment is played for laughs , but unfortunately , none of them work . Stephen King stars as Jordy Verrill . This vignette might have been better with a real actor instead of King . Rating ? . 3 . " Something to Tide You Over " ? A man uses the tides to do away with his cheating wife and her lover . If this segment weren't so predictable , it would be among the best . Tom Savini's makeup is the real star of this segment . Rating ? . 4 . " The Crate " ? A henpecked professor uses the contents of an old , forgotten about crate to help him with his problems . This is easily the highlight of the movie and would have made a nice feature length movie by itself . Adrienne Barbeau and Hal Holbrook star and are both great . The creature effects and design are a winner . Rating ? . 5 . " They're Creeping Up On You " ? A man with a cockroach phobia finds his home inundated by cockroaches . E . G . Marshall is good enough in the portion of the movie , but I find it dull . This vignette does have a great set design , though . Rating ? If you average the ratings I've given the individual segments , you'll come up with my overall rating of a . As you can see , I find Creepshow very hit-or-miss . If the entire film were as good as " The Crate " , it would easily be on the list of my favorite horror movies .
It's good , but I expected a little more	For what it is , Vendetta for the Saint is a reasonably entertaining movie with a decent plot that kept me interested throughout . If you're a fan of the television show The Saint , you should enjoy this movie , because Vendetta for the Saint isn't really a movie at all . It's actually a double length two-parter that's been combined into one single entity . There's nothing necessarily wrong with that . I enjoy The Saint . But I expected a little more from something marketed as a movie . I expected more in the way of set design , special effects , and the overall feel of the movie . However , I should point out at least one area where Vendetta for the Saint excels ? locations . The location shots of Palermo ( at least I think it really was Palermo ? it looked how I imagine Palermo looking ) are breathtaking and beautiful . Overall , if you're fan of The Saint , you should enjoy Vendetta for the Saint . But if you want something that goes beyond The Saint , you might be disappointed .
The " dolls " certainly are creepy little buggers	I feel very fortunate to have seen the original Spanish version of Munecos infernales instead of the cut , poorly dubbed American film known as The Curse of the Doll People . If you go into Munecos infernales expecting great cinema , you'll probably come away disappointed . But , if you lower those expectations a bit and enjoy the film for what it is , you might just have fun with it . The plot concerns a group of men who have returned from a trip to Haiti . While there , they witnessed a voodoo ritual and managed to steal a voodoo idol . Before they could get away , however , the voodoo priest put a curse on the men and their families . Now , one by one , the men are dying mysterious deaths . The best part of Munecos infernales has to be the " dolls " . In reality , they're nothing more than midgets with paper-mch masks that resemble their last victim . It may sound silly , but these are some creepy little buggers that actually manage to create a little atmosphere and sense of dread . On the downside , the film fells terribly padded to extend the runtime . For example , there are a couple of scenes where we see people going through windows that seem to go on forever . I previewed The Curse of the Doll People and , unfortunately , the cuts made to it don't include scenes like this .
Somebody buy Telly some clothes	- Violent City is a real mixed bag . I'll start with the good . The ending is fabulous . The way our hero , hit-man Jeff Heston ( Charles Bronson ) , gets his ultimate revenge is nothing short of sweet . His revenge comes out of nowhere and is startling when you realize what's happening . Bronson is another real bonus in the movie . Without too much dialogue , he's more than capable of portraying a variety of emotions . It's a refreshing change to see Bronson smiling and running on the beach as he does in one scene . You don't see that too often . Another highlight is the car chase at the beginning of the movie . Sollima lets the movie go on for a good 15 minutes during the car chase without a single line of dialogue being spoken . The chase is the key thing . Finally , Ennio Morricone's score nicely fits the action on screen . It's not his best , but any Morricone score is a winner . - As for the bad , there are stretches of the movie where nothing happens . I was fighting to keep my eyes open during some of the middle of the movie . Another bad , and I hate to say this , is Jill Ireland . She's surely got to be one of the worst actresses to ever appear in film . Finally , the show down between Bronson and Telly Savalas . It's over way too quick . I would have liked to see it drawn out to build the tension . - Finally , the ugly . If a half naked Telly Savalas doesn't classify as ugly , I don't know what does . - Overall , the good outweighs the bad in Violent City , but just barely . Without the " killer " ending , I would have rated the movie a point or two lower .
A great 2nd act	Finally ! I've been looking for this movie for years . I can remember seeing See No Evil when I was much younger and it scaring the pants off me . It's not that the movie is hard to find or out-of-print or anything , but I've never known the name . I recently purchased the DVD as a blind buy and , to my surprise , it's the movie I've been looking for . As I could have predicted , the film didn't live up to the lofty expectations I've placed on it over the years . The film starts much slower than I remembered . Now I'm one of these people who generally can tolerate the slowest moving films , but the first third of See No Evil is just painfully slow . Nothing happens and it seems to be going nowhere . I was also let down by the ending ? or should I say the lack of an ending . The film just ends . I would have appreciated a little insight into who the killer was . He's just some guy as far as I could tell . I'm not one of those who needs to be spoonfed plot points to determine what's going on , but give me a clue about identity , motivations , and such . The middle portion of See No Evil , however , is as good as I remembered . It's full of several tense moments and striking visuals , justifying my purchase of the DVD . The whole notion of a blind girl not knowing that those she shares the house with have been brutally murdered all around her is horrifying . The scene where the camera slowly pans to the other side of the blind girl's bedroom , revealing for the first time her dead cousin , is a real highlight . And Mia Farrow is great in the lead role . I really believed she was blind and I could really feel her terror as the movie progressed . It's an excellent performance from a terrific actress . Even though See No Evil didn't evoke the same reaction it did during my childhood , I'm glad to have finally rediscovered this movie after so many years of searching .
" He is evil . He is the embodiment of all that is evil . He is the very Devil himself . "	When Paul Carlson ( Christopher Matthews ) goes missing , his brother Simon ( Dennis Waterman ) and friend Sarah Framsen ( Jenny Hanley ) trace his footsteps to try to find him . Their journey leads them to a small village full of inhospitable locals who will only tell the pair that Paul was last seen heading toward a nearby castle . Simon and Sarah set off for the castle unaware of the danger that awaits them . This is no ordinary castle . It's the home of Dracula . Simon and Sarah find themselves in a fight for their lives against the King of the Vampires . Of Hammer's long list of Dracula films , Scars of Dracula is about average . It's nowhere near as good as Horror of Dracula , but it's a long way from being as bad as The Satanic Rites of Dracula . It's impossible to begin discussing any of Hammer's Dracula films without first mentioning Christopher Lee . In Scars of Dracula , Lee plays a more sadistic and evil version of the Count . In addition to the normal blood-sucking , this Dracula is not above the routine tortures of beating his servant with a whip , hanging a body from a wall , or sending his legions of bats to all but wipe out a town . It's these scenes that really make the film standout . But as much as I enjoyed the character of Dracula , as blasphemous as this will sound , it's one of Lee's weaker performances . Maybe I was reading something into his performance that wasn't there , but he came across as incredibly uninterested ( which in reality he was ) . There's none of the menace in the eyes that I associate with Lee's Dracula . It's acting by-the-numbers as far as I could tell . It's unfortunately because Lee was always so good in the role . Other highlights for me include Jenny Hanley as Sarah and the wall climbing scene . Hanley seemed like such a natural as the innocent , fragile Sarah . And she has some of the most expressive eyes I've noticed in a Hammer heroine . It's too bad she didn't make more films for Hammer . As for the wall climbing scenes , I believe it's the only one of its kind in any of the Hammer Dracula films . I realize that it's all done with camera tricks , but seeing Lee's Dracula climbing the side of the castle was a real treat . Unfortunately , I found just as many negatives as I did positives in Scars of Dracula . First , the screenplay has a number of holes in it . All of the characters make it incredibly convenient for Dracula . Not once is Dracula forced to leave his castle to find a victim ? they all conveniently come to him . And just how did Sarah get to the castle so fast ? The same journey that took Simon and a local priest almost an entire day is covered by the distraught Sarah in a matter of what seems to be a couple of hours . Next , Simon and Paul felt too modern given the time period in which the film is set . Their mannerisms , speech , and look simply scream 1970 . Finally , in the beginning of the film , Dracula is resurrected by a rubber bat drooling blood over his remains . If it's that easy for Dracula to come back to life , why didn't he use this method more often ? Why go through all the hassle of a sance as in Dracula A . D . 1972 or the elaborate ceremony in Taste the Blood of Dracula ? I seems like a lot of wasted effort to me .
" If I were you I'd still shoot "	I found Death Rage to be a fun little Euro-crime movie that's much better than it's reputation would suggest ( or at least better than many of the reviews I've read ) . Yul Brynner plays Peter Marciani , an aging hit-man hired to go to Italy to kill a mob boss . At first he refuses until he learns that his intended target is responsible for his brother's death . Along the way , he meets and befriends a young , overly helpful , wannabe mobster and a beautiful showgirl . Can these three pull off the job ? Quite simply , Yul Brynner is the man ! He brings a certain authenticity and coolness to Marciani and makes most of the film a blast . I bought into his hit-man persona completely . When confronted by two hoods wanting to take him to see their boss , Marciani calmly says " If I were you , I'd shoot . " One of the hoods tells Marciani that he's worth more alive . Marciani's response ? " If I were you I'd still shoot " . How classic is that ! Death Rage also features a number of exciting car chases and gun battles in the narrow street of Naples . These scenes are exciting and very well done . The film co-stars Barbara Bouchet . For the most part , she is underutilized and most of the scenes involving her are too predictable . You just know that at some point the bad guys are going to use her to get to Marciani . Also , I never really believed the relationship between Marciani and Bouchet's character . The two made a ridiculous looking couple . Finally , I can't really end this without mentioning the subplot involving a problem with Marciani's eyes that , I suppose , relate to the film's title in some way . These scenes are pointless and go nowhere . Can you say " padding " ? While I've rated Death Rage a , I'm almost positive that my rating would change if I ever have the opportunity to see an uncut copy of the film . My copy of Death Rage has a runtime more than 15 minutes less than that listed on IMDb .
My second experience with Combat !	In this episode of Combat ! , Lt . Gil Hanley ( Rick Jason ) finds himself trapped under rubble in a church . Atop the rubble sits an unexploded bomb . It's up to a burned out British bomb disposal expert with a hatred for Americans to save the day - and Lt . Hanley . The only thing I've got to compare " Any Second Now " with is " A Day in June " , the only other episode of Combat ! I've seen . So , that's just what I'll do - compare the two . " Any Second Now " doesn't fair well . Where " A Day in June " featured an interesting band of guys , each with a chance for some screen time , " Any Second Now " focuses on one of the shows two leads , Jason's Lt . Hanley . And this episode suffers from it . Yes , this episode is well written and contains some decent drama ( although it's predictable drama ) , but without the other characters , the fun is gone . I missed the guys . Even co-star Vic Morrow is only around for a couple of thankless moments . I'm not saying it's bad , it's just not as good as the " A Day in June " . I just hope that the rest of the episodes are more like " A Day in June " and less like " Any Second Now " .
Bava and the Vikings	Two very young Viking brothers are separated during a battle that claims the life of their father . One brother , Eron , is brought up to one day take his father's place as the leader of the Viking people . The other brother , Erik , is brought up by his adopted mother Queen Alice to one day rule England . But when Eron and the Vikings invade England and take Queen Alice hostage , these two brothers will lead their armies into battle against one another . What will happen when these two brothers discover their common bond ? Erik the Conqueror was one of the few films directed by Mario Bava that I had not seen until last night . Overall , it's a very entertaining , if not overly original , Viking epic . If you've seen the 1958 movie The Vikings with Kirk Douglas , a lot of the plot in Erik the Conqueror will seem similar . Still , with Bava's directorial touches , his eye for color , and his interesting camera movements , there's enough here to keep things feeling fresh and to overcome a limited budget ( if you look close enough , you'll see the same extra die at least five times in the opening fight scene ) . The opening shot alone featuring skulls , two lovers wrapped in barbwire , and dancing girls is as visually pleasing as any of Bava's other movies . The cast is solid . Cameron Mitchell ( always a favorite of mine ) and his blond crew cut fit the role of the Viking Eron quite nicely . George Ardisson might even be more impressive in the role of Erik . They are joined by the Kessler twins who , while not the greatest thespians to appear on screen , are perfect in their roles . Add to it a slew of extras , some impressively staged fight scenes , and a nice looking castle set , and Erik the Conqueror is a must see for Bava fans like me .
Twice the Landau = Twice the Fun	As far as episodes of Columbo go , Double Shock is neither the best I've seen , nor is it the worst . It rests firmly in the middle . On the positive side , this episode presents a nice change-of-pace from the norm . In every other Columbo I've seen , not only do you know how the murder was committed , but you know beyond a shadow of a doubt who the killer is . Double Shock is a real mystery . It's not until the final reveal that crucial elements of the murder and the identity of the murderer are revealed . But , there are negatives . Far too much of Double Shock's runtime is made up of scenes that have nothing to do with advancing the plot . Columbo often goes off on tangents , but he does so to prove a point or discover something about a suspect . Not here . Scenes like those where Columbo argues with the housekeeper or where Columbo appears on a cooking show have nothing to do with the meat of the story . Columbo gains nothing making these scenes pointless .
I'm still waiting for the evening gown portion of the show	Fans of serious science fiction need not bother . In fact , to call Missile to the Moon a " science fiction " movie is something of a misstatement . " Fiction " ? sure . " Science " ? not on your life . Any resemblance Missile to the Moon may have with actual science is purely coincidental and , most likely , unintentional . But that doesn't mean it's not entertaining . Taken for what it is ( a 1958 low-budget drive-in b-movie ) , it's not half bad . Sure , the rock creatures look fake and the giant spider is obviously a puppet and the inhabitants of the moon are straight off an Atlantic City beauty show runway , but all these things only add to the fun of the movie . It's kooky stuff like this that always seems to appeal to me . Don't take it too seriously and you just might enjoy it . There are a couple of other positives . One , the film is nicely paced so that at only 78 minutes it doesn't overstay its welcome . And two , the movie looks far better than it should given its meager budget . I'd say that the cinematographer , Meredith M . Nicholson , got it right . In the end , Missile to the Moon may not be the greatest movie ever made , but as a piece of entertainment , it's certainly better than its 2 . 4 IMDb rating . For what it's worth , I'll give it a .
This should have been The Ring Two	This is the movie that The Ring Two should have been . It's the story of a group of young people playing a dangerous game with the videotape from The Ring . Each takes a turn watching the tape knowing that another member of the group will bail them out before their seven days are over . But no one appears willing to help out Jake when his experiences prove too frightening for the other members of the group . Jake has to find someone quickly , or he'll die . Although this short is less than 17 minutes long , it's packed with entertainment and more than a few scares . The whole concept of a group of young people essentially playing Russian Roulette with Samara and tempting their fates seems like a natural progression . A fleshed out feature length movie would have been great . More time could have been spent on Jake's experiences and his frantic efforts to find his savior . Instead , we got the mess that is The Ring Two .
" They . . . always . . . move ! "	Bill ( William Kerwin ) is a tormented artist working on a painting from a dream he's had . But can Bill ever actually finish his masterpiece if he keeps killing all his models ? Whatever else I might think or write about Playgirl Killer , one thing is certain ? it features one of the absolute funniest bits of dialogue I've heard in a long time . The father referring to his youngest daughter states , " Well at first I didn't like the idea of Betty being engaged to a rock and roll singer , but they're in love so I guess it's up to us to help make them happy . " What's so funny about this line ? Well , this rock ' n ' roll hoodlum that's got Pops all in a dither is none other than bad boy Neil Sedaka . Yes , that Neil Sedaka ! The Neil Sedaka that would go on to pin such rowdy " rock ' n ' roll " standards as " Breaking Up is Hard to Do " and " Love Will Keep Us Together " . Just imagine the idea of your youngest daughter marrying a ruffian like that ! Beyond that bit of unintended hilarity , the rest of Playgirl Killer is almost equally a hoot . Whether it's William Kerwin in his over-the-top artist-killer mode or Jean Christopher playing the over-the-top tease , the movie is more often than not a treat for fans of trashy 60s cinema . The movie promises a lot more in the way of sleaze than it delivers ? which , believe it or not , is another selling point . It's hysterical watching Christopher's Arlene toy and flirt with every man in sight . And you've got to love Bill's motive for killing . No , it's not some deep-seated resentment toward women - it's not some weird Oedipus issue - it's not even for money . Bill kills because his models move . You read that right , he kills his models because they move . Don't dare bat an eyelid or Bill might just slit your throat . How bizarrely funny is that ? The whole thing is such a ridiculous blast that it's hard not to enjoy it . The movie's only real weakness ( well , the only weakness that really bothered me ) was the complete lack of suspense . Playgirl Killer is supposed to be a thriller so I naturally expected a few . . . well , a few thrills . Instead , all of Bill's kills are telegraphed far in advance . Take the first model he kills shortly after docking the boat the two are riding in . The couple jump out of the boat and head toward a rock for some sketching . Bill brings along his equipment ? pencil , paper , a bag ( presumably with more art supplies ) , and a spear gun . Once again , you're not seeing things - I said a spear gun ! What artist worth his salt doesn't have an obscure weapon with him every time he sets out to do a portrait ? How hard it is to figure out what Bill's up to with that spear gun ? See what I mean - no suspense . I'll give this one a ? but be warned , that rating is more for the cheese in Playgirl Killer than any real indication of the quality of the film .
For a " cannibal " film , it's surprisingly touching and sad	It's amazing that the relatively tame Man from Deep River spawned the whole Italian cannibal sub-genre . I use the word " tame " because in comparison to other similar films it's just that ? tame . Sure , there are a few scenes of over-the-top cannibal violence and real animal deaths , but they are not the focus of the movie . The scenes of violence that give the Man from Deep River its notoriety could have been excluded and the movie would have probably been just as good . The main benefit to the movie of these scenes is to provide a sense of realism . The main plot concerns a man who at first is held prisoner by a primitive tribe only to become accepted by the tribe and , in turn , accept the tribe as his own . Other commentators have spoken of the movie's similarity to something like Dances with Wolves and it's an accurate comparison . Ivan Rassimov is quite good in the Kevin Costner role . Other than his incredibly bad dye job that remains with him throughout the film even though at least a year of time passes , he's believable . A pre-boob job Me Me Lai has the Mary McDonnell role . She not the greatest actress you'll ever see , but at least here she does look more authentic as a native than she does in later cannibal films with her perfect make-up and over inflated chest . The rest of the cast , made up of locals and real tribes-people , are surprisingly effective . Another surprise is the way Lenzi allows the relationship between Rassimov and Me Me to grow believably throughout the movie . Too often , films like Man from Deep River just expect the viewer to accept the fact that the best looking native woman immediately and without reason falls for the white male intruder . The relationship in Man from Deep River is interesting and a far cry from what you'll find in other cannibal films . For what is essentially an early 70s Italian exploitation film , it's actually quite touching and sad .
Meiko Kaji impresses again	When one of the local girls starts dating a " half-breed " , the local guy gang ( The Eagles ) doesn't think much of it . The Eagles start of campaign of terror directed at mixed race couples and individuals they deem to be not of " pure " Japanese heritage . It's up to the leader of the local girl gang and a " half breed " named Kazuma to stand up to The Eagles ? even if they have to die for what's right . While Stray Cat Rock : Sex Hunter is a decent enough movie , it's not the movie I was hoping for . I'm relatively new to the Japanese exploit movies of the 70s having only recently watched three of the Female Prisoner # 701 movies . Since Meiko Kaji stars in both and Yasuharu Hasebe directs in both , I was hoping Stray Cat Rock : Sex Hunter would be similar in tone to Female Prisoner # 701 . And while it has its moments ( a couple of fight scenes , the rape party , and the jeep chase for example ) , the movie is far too serious in its focus to be as much fun as I hoped . More girl gang action and less racial tension would have gone a long way to making this one a real winner . The highlight of the movie for me has to be Meiko Kaji . I've now seen her in five different movies ( this one , the three Female Prisoner # 701 movies , and Lady Snowblood ) and she never fails to impress me . She's an actress I hope to see more of in the future .
It had a lot of potential .	- A family finds a nice , big , old house at a reasonable rate to rent for the Summer . The only catch is that they must take care of the old lady who lives upstairs . The house is great and the " catch " seems simple enough so the family soon moves in . It's not long , however , until strange things start happening . The father ( Oliver Reed ) begins having nightmares while awake about traumatic events from his childhood . The aunt ( Bette Davis ) gets very sick and has trouble leaving her bed . And the mother ( Karen Black ) disappears into the old lady's quarters for hours on end . And this is only the start of the families problems . Soon , it becomes apparent that the house is alive and will not let any of them leave . - One problem with the movie is the direction . Burnt Offerings was directed by Dan Curtis . If you're not familiar with Curtis , his primary claim to fame is the 1960s horror soap opera , Dark Shadows . Like other movies he made , Burnt Offerings looks like a television movie . He appears to have had a lot of problems transitioning to the big screen . Special effects , camera positioning , and action are similar to what you could see on television in 1976 . - Speaking of cameras and special effects , I'll never understand why someone would so frequently use a gel lens as Curtis does here . It's like watching a movie through Vaseline . After a while , my eyes started hurting from having to try so hard to focus . - But the biggest problem I had with the film was the story . It is so predictable . Once the family moved into the house , it took literally 15 minutes to figure out what was going to happen . If you can't see that Karen Black's character is going to be possessed or if you don't realize that there is no old woman , you must live in a cave and never watch movies . I've never seen such a transparent plot where the ending was so telegraphed from the beginning . - The acting makes up for a lot of the shortcomings in the movie . Oliver Reed is good in almost everything I've seen him in . He has to be one of my all-time favorites . Karen Black does a reasonable job of portraying a woman slowly being possessed . And , while I was ready to hate Bette Davis in the movie , I found her character the most fun and energetic in the whole film . Not bad for a woman who was 68 when the movie was made .
Funky music , gunfights , and plenty of fake looking blood	Unlike many of the other movies of its ilk , Detroit 9000 has a much more serious tone . It's more akin to something like Across 110th Street than it is to Foxy Brown . As serious as it may be , there's still a lot of fun to be had ? funky music , gunfights , and plenty of fake looking blood . For the most part , it's a fast faced , enjoyable , gritty look at crime in Detroit in the 70s . But the movie isn't without its problems . Chief among them is the lead detective played by Alex Rocco . I enjoy watching an actor who makes you forget they are an actor and you really start to believe in their character . No such luck with Rocco in Detroit 9000 . I never bought his down-on-his-luck , good-cop routine . To me , he was nothing more than someone reciting lines . And the whole subplot about his wife in the asylum added nothing to the film other than to slow things down to a crawl .
Toler's first Chan	In Charlie Chan in Honolulu , Chan is called out to a freighter with six passengers making its way to Hawaii . A mysterious man has been murdered and $300 , 000 is missing . Chan must work his way through the clues , red herrings , odd characters , and other assorted obstacles to find a solution . In typical Chan fashion , he gathers all the suspects together to reveal the killer's identity . Charlie Chan in Honolulu marks Sidney Toler's first outing as the venerable detective . The movie may not be spectacular , but it's not a bad way to begin Toler's run in the series . The movie also sees Victor Sen Yung take over for Keye Luke in the role of Chan's main son . H . Bruce Humberstone would appear to have been a solid choice to direct Toler's first Chan . He was familiar with the series having already directed three installments , including the much heralded Charlie Chan at the Opera . Likewise , the supporting characters are also a solid group . George Zucco and Phyllis Brooks give exceptionally noteworthy performances . Eddie Collins provides the comic relief . The biggest weakness of Charlie Chan in Honolulu is the plot . It's just not that interesting . And , in infuriating fashion , Chan's solution to the mystery is a cheat . There's no way for the audience to have figured out the solution based on the clues presented . It takes a last minute piece of evidence to unmask the killer .
Nice cast , but flawed movie	- The plot in Waterhole # 3 seems lifted straight from one of Leone's Spaghetti Westerns - a group of people search for stolen Army gold . Finding the gold doesn't prove to be too difficult . But hanging onto it certainly does . - Other than one major flaw , Waterhole # 3 is a reasonably entertaining comedy / Western that's sometimes very funny and sometimes . . . well . . . a Western . While the story may not be very originally , most of the cast does does an excellent job . James Coburn and Carroll O'Connor work well together . I've become quite the fan of Coburn and in Waterhole # 3 , he doesn't disappoint . Although he appears to basically be playing himself , he's entertaining enough to watch . In contrast , O'Connor has never been a favorite of mine , but his " bad " sheriff routine really works . - The one major flaw I mentioned , however , kept me from completely enjoying Waterhole # 3 and giving it a better rating . The flaw concerns the treatment of the sheriff's daughter who is basically raped by Coburn . I'm no prude , but there's just no place for this in a light-hearted comedy . And the fact that the her father , the sheriff , does nothing about it and even makes jokes with Coburn over what happened is out of place and out of line . A little sexual innuendo , a peck on the cheek , or Coburn making a pass at the daughter might have worked much better , but rape takes it way too far .
Head-in-a-Box	Centuries ago , Aleric du Marnac ( Paul Naschy ) and his female companion were put to death for a variety of crimes including consorting with Satan . The pair vowed to get their revenge on the descendants of those responsible for their deaths . du Marnac was beheaded and his body and head were buried separately . Switch to the present day ( 1973 ) where Hugo du Marnac ( also Paul Nashcy ) and his friends discover a buried chest containing the head of Aleric du Marnac ? a head that wants to be reunited with the rest of its body . Through possession and blood sacrifice , du Marnac is determined to make his body whole . What Works : - The Last Act . I have yet to see a Paul Naschy film that I can wholeheartedly endorse , but Horror Rises from the Tomb comes as close as I've yet seen . The final third of the movie is a nice slice of Euro-horror . It's loaded with lots of juicy horror elements - a reanimated head , a sickle-welding maniac , zombies , a magical talisman , and more . If only the first two-thirds of the movie could have been this good . It's not that the first part of the movie is bad , it's just not as good as the final half hour . - The Head-in-a-Box . Horror Rises from the Tomb certainly isn't the first film of its type to have a reanimated head , but its definitely handled better than most . Through some nice editing and some tricky camera placements , du Marnac's head comes to life . In fact , most of the special effects ( the zombies rising from the swamp or the heart being ripped from the chest are two more examples ) are as good as anything I've seen form an early 70s Spanish horror movie . - Helga Line . du Marnac's twisted , blood-thirsty female companion is played to perfection by Helga Line . What Doesn't Work : - Paul Naschy . I've written this before , but I just don't understand Nashcy's status as a cult icon . He's one of the most unappealing actors I've ever seen . As the descendant Hugo , Nashcy lacks anything approaching charisma . - Dialogue . This may have as much to do with the dubbing as anything else , but some of the dialogue had me going back to see if I had heard things correctly . The best example goes something like this ( I don't have the exact quote , but this is close ) : " Two people have been murdered and we've just dumped their bodies in the lake . We've got to get out of here . We don't want to get involved . " Huh ? I've come to realize that Naschy's brand of horror may not be for me . I'll still watch his films in hopes that one day I'll see in him what so many other horror fans have seen . Horror Rises from the Tomb may not be Naschy's breakthrough with me , but it's a movie that I enjoyed and will revisit in the future .
Tag team monster action	The plot of a movie like Godzilla vs . Megalon hardly matters . The movie follows the same basic premise that most of these Toho monster mashes follow ? A monster , for whatever reason , poses a threat to humanity . Godzilla is summoned from Monster Island to provide assistance in defeating the monster . The End . That's basically what you get here ? Godzilla doing battle with Megalon with the fate of the world in the balance . Megalon , the giant beetle-like creature with giant rotating drill-like arms capable of spiting bombs , is joined by Gigan , a giant chicken-like creature with incredibly sharp talon-like arms . Fortunately for Godzilla ( and all of mankind ) , he also has an ally ? Jet Jaguar , a giant Ultraman style robot . It no-holds barred action as these behemoths do battle ! If you don't take this stuff too seriously , Godzilla vs . Megalon can be quite a bit of fun . There's enough interesting " filler " going on before the monsters do battle to make even the " boring " parts reasonably entertaining . As with most Toho films , this one includes some really nice miniature work . The scenes of Megalon destroying the dam are very nicely done . As an added bonus , Godzilla vs . Megalon features a few unexpected surreal moments involving the inhabitants of Seatopia . I wasn't quite prepared for a dance number in the middle of my Godzilla movie . And to top things off , the leader of the Seatopians looks like some sort of extra from a Bob Fosse movie . Bizarre !
The best movie about Amazons I've seen this week	I can't believe I've watched two Italian Amazon movies in one week . How much cheese can one person stand ? Compared with Battle of the Amazons , however , War Goddess comes out the clear winner . I actually enjoyed the movie much more than I probably should have . War Goddess tells the story of the Amazons selecting a new Queen through competition . Once selected , the Amazons prepare themselves for their annual visit to a nearby army for the purposes of mating . Love with a man is forbidden ? procreation is the only purpose for these visits . But the new Queen does fall in love and ends up risking her empire for the sake of a man . I suppose I could go on and on pointing out the good and the bad of the acting , the fight scenes , technical aspects , the score , the decision not to take the subject matter too seriously , or any number of other things one generally discusses when writing a user comment . And while I actually found this movie above average in many respects ( probably due to Terence Young's direction as much as anything ) , something tells me that's not the reason the average person sits down to watch War Goddess . As unbelievable as this may be , the real draw is . . . hold on . . . are you ready for it . . . NUDE AMAZON WRESTLING ! Shocking , huh ? Imagine that , the real attraction is a couple of well-built , nice-looking females engaged in NUDE AMAZON WRESTLING ! War Goddess features two ? that's right , two ? very nice scenes of NUDE AMAZON WRESTLING ! If that's not your thing ( and I don't understand why it wouldn't be ) , the rest of the movie isn't that bad . But who cares when there's NUDE AMAZON WRESTLING !
A fine performance from Lugosi	If you haven't seen Invisible Ghost , I won't bother going into much of the plot . Most of it is silly and doesn't make much sense . Basically , the story involves a man who is driven to commit murder by seeing his supposedly dead wife . That's really all you need to know . And , it's not much of a spoiler as you discover most of this within the first ten minutes or so . Lugosi is great as the mad killer . A really first-rate acting job that is by far one of his best from the Poverty Row movies he made ( that I've seen ) . He does an excellent job of alternating between the kindly Charles Kessler and the mad killer . Clarence Muse is also a standout as the butler , Evans . Muse played Evans as smart , calm , strong , and nothing like the typical black character you find in a 40s horror / mystery movie . I call him the anti-Mantan . Over the past few years , I've learned to enjoy the movies from the 40s that Monogram and others were putting out . Invisible Ghost is not the best of the bunch , but it's certainly not the worst . It's fun to watch if just to see Lugosi hamming it up . Just don't take these movies too seriously .
With Lee and Price , it could have been better	The Oblong Box is an average horror film - not great , but certainly not the worst . The story is fairly interesting and the cast ( while not necessarily the acting ) is top notch . Horror icons Vincent Price and Christopher Lee star . The story involves a man who is kept locked in his room . He has been horribly disfigured during an African voodoo ceremony and , as a result , has gone completely mad . After faking his death , he seeks revenge on those he feels are responsible for his condition . For the most part , the story kept me interested . There are enough twists and turns that keep it from becoming overly slow or boring . The main weakness with the story is that it is unnecessarily complicated . A more straight forward approach may have been more effective . The period costumes and sets are good . There is more blood than in the normal Vincent Price / AIP movie ( even though it is what I refer to as the bright red " Hammer blood " ) . The supporting cast is quite good . I especially enjoyed watching the young Hilary Dwyer as Price's wife . As I said earlier , Price and Lee star . Neither is , however , particularly good in this movie . In fact , I think anyone could have played the role Lee plays . It's not a particularly difficult or meaty role . Both appear to be going through the motions . The real star is Alister Williamson , playing Price's disfigured brother . Not only does he have the most screen time , he is more effective in his role than either Lee or Price .
Are there really fans of Lizabeth Scott out there ?	I've now watched three of the Hammer noirs that were recently released on DVD and while each is okay , there's nothing very memorable about any of them . That's precisely how I feel about Stolen Face ? it's a decent watch , but it's nothing I would go out of my way to see again . While Paul Henreid gives a nice performance and Terence Fisher's direction is solid , the screenplay really lets them down . There just aren't any surprises . It's all nicely done , but I've seen it before . And if you haven't seen it , you can probably predict the film's outcome with a great deal of success . It's about as subtle as a hammer ( pun intended ) to the head . My enjoyment of the film isn't helped any by the presence of Lizabeth Scott . I've only seen her in two movies that I can name off the top of my head ( this one and The Strange Love of Martha Ivers ) and that's two too many . I can't stand the woman ! One interesting aspect of Stolen Face is the interjection of little elements horror / sci-fi . After all , this is Hammer and this is Terence Fisher . It somehow seems appropriate .
A nice start for the Stooges at Columbia	Woman Haters is far from the best of the Three Stooges , but it is a nice start to the Columbia shorts and does offer a unique and interesting thing or two . The plot sees the boys joining the Woman Haters Club ? a club that prohibits its members from carrying on with women . But no sooner than they become members , Larry ( they actually have character names , but they don't really matter ) finds himself at the altar . He does his best to keep Moe and Curly from finding out he's secretly gotten married and he does his best to keep his new wife from finding out about the Woman Haters club . As expected , a great deal of eye poking and head knocking ensues . The two best things Woman Haters has going for it ( beyond its curiosity value ) is the rhyming scheme of the dialogue and Marjorie White as Larry's wife . While I've seen some complaints about the rhyming dialogue , it worked for me . I thought it was very clever . Now , it might not have worked for a full feature , but for a two-reeler , it's okay . As for Marjorie White , she more than capable of holding her own with Moe , Larry , and Curly ? more so than most women I can think of off the top of my head who appeared in other Three Stooges shorts . It's too bad she didn't live long enough to see where her career might have taken her .
My goodness but Mamie sure could fill-up an outfit !	Already on probation for a series of petty crimes , Silver Morgan ( Mamie Van Doren ) is facing time in juvenile detention after being accused by a witness of pushing her boyfriend off a cliff . Fortunately for Silver , Mother Veronica offers to take her in at Girls Town ? a Catholic home for troubled young women . Silver doesn't want to fit in and has trouble with the other girls from the moment she arrives . But when her kid sister gets into trouble , it's these very same people she turns to for help . Can Girls Town save Silver - and her sister ? If Silver Morgan is 16 years old , then I'm a teenager myself . My goodness but Mamie sure could fill-up an outfit ! Curves galore ! And what kind of name is " Silver " ? Sounds like a stripper name to me ! But even though this is low-budget 50s-style exploitation , Mamie gives a surprisingly decent performance . It's not award worthy or anything , but I enjoyed it . Beyond Mamie , another " highlight " of the movie has to be the fight scene between those two imposing specimens of masculinity , Paul Anka and Mel Torme . That's right ? Paul Anka and Mel Torme in a fight ! It's one of the absolute funniest things I've seen in a long time . I mean Mamie's bra is tougher than these two . Still , it's a moment that made the movie for me . Realistically , Girls Town isn't anywhere near as good as my rating would indicate . But as I've said before , my ratings are based on the entertainment value I find in movies regardless of a lot of other factors . If I watch a movie and enjoy it and have fun with it , it gets a good rating . And unlike a lot of other reviewers , I had a blast with Girls Town . I watched the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version of Girls Town and loved it . The riffs were dead-on and hysterical . I've got no problems rating episode # 601 a on my MST3K rating scale . This is one any fan of the show should seek out .
Warner makes a good monster	Frankenstein ( 1984 ) is yet another of the seemingly endless versions of the Frankenstein story . This one was apparently made for British television . The director , James Ormerod , has put together a nice little movie given the obvious limitations to his budget . I won't go into the basic story as most already know it by heart . The cast is good . The movie stars Carrie Fisher , Robert Powell , and David Warner . Although listed as the ' star ' , Fisher's role of Elizabeth has little screen time . She is , however , good when on screen . As for Powell , other than looking like a 1970s porn star , his portrayal of Dr . Victor Frankenstein is also good . But , the real star is David Warner as the monster . His portrayal of the monster is one of the better I've seen . In a very believable performance , Warner plays the monster as a very sympathetic creature . For example , I really felt the monster's pain when his only friend is killed . I would easily rate it as on of the top three performances of Frankenstein's monster I've seen . Of note in the supporting cast is John Gielgud as the blind hermit . The make-up is also good given the budget . Instead of the scars and neck bolts we're all familiar with , this creature looks more like a burn victim . It's understandable given the high temperatures generated from the electricity that brought the monster to life . While not the best Frankenstein I've ever seen , the movie held my attention throughout . At the start of the movie , I was ready to hate it , but ended up having a great time watching the story unfold . Warner's monster was a treat .
These are some of the most clean-cut , white-bread kids imaginable .	It looks like bad news for the kids of the local hot rod club . They're about to be thrown out of the building they've used as their clubhouse . And with no place to go , that will mean an end to their club . Just when things look their bleakest , an aunt of one of the club's members offers the kids the use of a house she owns in the appropriately named Dragstrip Hollow . The only catch is that the house is supposed to be haunted . Ghost of Dragstrip Hollow has proved to be a difficult movie for me to get my hands around . To begin with , this has to be the strangest hot rod club I've run across in a movie . These are some of the most clean-cut , white-bread kids imaginable . In comparison , they make Wally and the Bev look like delinquents . They're respectful of others , they wear suits and dresses to parties , they don't rumble , and , most shocking of all , they don't race . Huh ? A hot rod club that has a bylaw prohibiting its members from racing ? Weird ! The rival hot rod club is no better . When the rival gang decides to crash a party , they do so dressed to the nines - suits , ties , and party dresses . And while I found a lot to enjoy , there are too many big problems with the movie to call it good . On the positive side , I enjoyed the incredibly catchy music , the energy of the cast , and the lighthearted fun of it all . On the negative side there's the lack of any real plot , the hokey haunted house and its " resolution " , and some really poor acting . In the end , however , the pendulum ends up on the negative side because of two things I found in Ghost of Dragstrip Hollow that are so egregious they're unforgivable ? the ridiculously annoying talking bird and the even more ridiculously annoying talking car . Ugh ! Edit : Despite the problems with Ghost of Dragstrip Hollow , I've found myself oddly drawn back to it . I've now seen the movie three times in the past couple of days . There seems to be more here than I first gave it credit for . Even the bird and car aren't bothering me as much . I think a change in my rating to a is in order .
The least of the series	What started with a bang in The Thin Man sadly ends in something of a whimper in Song of the Thin Man . By 1947 , William Powell and Myrna Loy had become a little too long in the tooth to portray the dashing , urbane mystery solving couple . Both still do a good job , but I always picture Nick and Nora a little younger . The writing is not up to the standard set by the first three Thin Man films . It often seems more like what you would find in a cheap Monogram Charlie Chan film . I'll always argue that the writing in this series as a whole really suffered with the departure of Dashiell Hammett . And , with a child at home , the jokes centered on Nick's drinking seem out of place and not as funny . So how can I rate a movie a if I see so many problems with it ? The faults I point out are found when comparing Song of the Thin Man with the other movies in the series . On it's own , it's an enjoyable enough movie , just not the best I've ever seen . But when compared with the previous five films , it fails . Still , we're talking Powell and Loy , my all-time favorite movie couple , so a seems about right .
Nice introduction to the series	" The Case of the Cunningham Heritage " is a nice introduction to the 1954 series creatively titled Sherlock Holmes . Ronald Howard plays Holmes and Howard Marion-Crawford is Watson . Both are more than adequate in their roles and present a nice change of pace for viewers more familiar with either the Rathbone films or the Brett television series . Howard gives Holmes a bit more humanity ( for lack of a better word ) than I've seen elsewhere . As for Crawford , fortunately he doesn't play Watson as the bumbling fool as Nigel Bruce often did . The pair is very capably joined by Archie Duncan as Inspector Lastrade . The Lastrade role is much larger than what's often found , but the character makes a nice foil for Holmes . Being the first episode , " The Case of the Cunningham Heritage " is more concerned with character development than anything else . There's a murder , but it's hardly worth going into . The murder and its solution are ancillary to the viewer getting a feel for the characters . I , for one , appreciated this aspect of the episode . It sets a solid foundation for future installments . And , at less than 30 minutes in length , there's not much time for an overly involved mystery anyway . Overall , not a bad way to get things started . I think a is about right for this episode . I'm looking forward to watching the rest of the series .
It may be stupid , but it's so much fun	I realize that most people who have seen The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini will look at my rating and decide I need to have my head examined . I readily admit that it's one of the stupidest movies I've seen recently . I am perfectly capable of seeing all of the same problems in the movie that all of the other reviews or comments point out . Yes , the beach movie was on its last leg when The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini was made . Yes , there is no plot . Yes , most of the comedy is incredibly lame . Yes , Tommy Kirk is beyond terrible . Yes , Harvey Lembeck was way too old to play a rebellious motorcycle leader . Yes , Benny Rubin's Chicken Feather character is offensive . Yes , Deborah Walley is no Annette Funicello . Yes , Boris Karloff has little more than an extended cameo that almost appears to have been an afterthought . Yes , I see all these problems and more in The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini , but for whatever reason , the movie is still a lot of fun . I had a blast watching Nancy Sinatra sing " Geronimo " . She's just so cool . I also enjoyed watching Basil Rathbone in one of his final performances . He seemed to really be enjoying the chance to ham it up . As goofy as it may sound , I love the fact that The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini takes many of the traditional beach movie trappings and transports them to a big , old haunted house . A swinging 60s style beach party set in Karloff's over-the-top torture chamber is an awesome idea . Finally , I've got to give the movie a bonus point for having a completely unnecessary gorilla . It adds a surreal touch to everything . So , despite the many , many weaknesses and problems in The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini . I still had a great time watching it . I'll continue to say that the entertainment I get out of a movie is more important to me than anything else . And with that in mind , the rating I've given The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini seems about right to me .
Enjoyable in its own unique way	The Mad Executioners actually has two seemingly unrelated plot lines . The first involves a powerful , but secret society operating outside official channels that has set up its own court of sorts . They hold trials , render verdicts , and carry out sentencing . Their cases seem to focus on criminals who have slipped through the loopholes of the regular system . But even though these criminals are quite guilty , Scotland Yard tends to frown on hanging people . The second plot line involves a serial killer who dumps headless corpses around London . A desperate detective decides to use his girlfriend as bait . But can he get to her before she becomes the next victim ? Based on my limited experiences with these German-made thrillers , I would say The Mad Executioners is about average . When the film focuses on the secret trials and hangings , it's very good and quite interesting . The opening trial scene , for example , is very creepy with the unknown hooded judges and the foggy Thames hanging sight . But when the movie focuses on the serial killer , it doesn't work . The secret lab , for example , seems silly when compared with the serious tone of the rest of the movie . Not that cutting off someone's head isn't serious , but the serial killer's methods are overly elaborate . Until they converge in the end , these two disparate plot lines feel as if they're from different movies . Another big plus for me is the soundtrack . The Mad Executioners has that jazzy , smokey score that I've come to expect and enjoy in these krimis . The music sets just the right tone . While I've yet to find a German Edgar Wallace movie that knocks me off my feet , I think I'll keep looking . So far , I've found these movies enjoyable enough in their own unique way .
A nice performance from Jean Peters	After the mysterious death of his niece , Cam Cameron ( Joseph Cotton ) begins to suspect that the child's stepmother may be responsible . When the autopsy reveals the presence of strychnine in the girl's system , he's convinced that his dead brother's wife , Lynn Cameron ( Jean Peters ) , is the only person with both a motive and the opportunity . Cam now begins to fear for the life of his nephew . He's got to act fast because Lynn intends to take the young boy to Europe . While I've given A Blueprint for Murder a positive rating and I readily admit I mostly enjoyed the film , much of what I've got to write about is going to seem negative . As good as it is , it has far too many problems to be called great . A Blueprint for Murder is about the most straight forward mystery / thriller I've run across . And that's part of its biggest weakness . There's no mystery regarding the killer's identity . It's made quite clear early on that Lynn killed her niece . There seemed to be a half-hearted attempt to use Cam as a red-herring , but anyone with half a brain could figure out in 3 . 2 seconds that Cam couldn't have committed the crime - he wasn't there . Maybe I just imagined the light of suspicion being pointed at Cam because I so wanted to be thrown some kind of curve ball . Even though the killer is known , director Andrew L . Stone is able to wring some tension out of the final scenes as Cam tries to prove Lynn is a killer . You get the feeling that even though you know Lynn is responsible for the girl's death , she just might get away with it . These scenes are , however , undermined by an ending that's terribly rushed with action that , unfortunately , takes place off-screen . Too bad , because A Blueprint for Murder could have been much better . One of the real highlights for me in A Blueprint for Murder was the acting . The performance of Jean Peters as Lynn Cameron is enlightening . I'm not overly familiar with her work , but she's marvelous as the apparent caring , wonderful parent who is hiding a cold , unfeeling heart . I may have to look for more of her work .
I'd like to see a restored Region 1 release of this one	Crypt of Horror appears to be one of those films from the early 60s that has been cut , re-cut , and released under almost a dozen titles . To me , it's a shame that this movie has been treated this way over the years because I found it to be a fairly effective Euro-Gothic treat . The plot deals with Count Karnstein and his fear that his daughter may be the reincarnation of a relative put to death decades earlier for being a witch . Regardless of whether the daughter is a witch or not , members of the Karnstein family are dying rather cruel deaths . The Count must discover the truth to the witch's curse and put a stop to the deaths before the Karnstein family looses another member . If you are into Gothic horror , there's plenty here to enjoy . Crypt of Horror exudes that Gothic atmosphere and plays a bit like cross between Black Sunday and Castle of Blood . ( No , I'm not saying it's as good as either of these films . ) I described it to a friend as the best Barbara Steele movie that Barbara Steele never made . A wonderfully creepy castle with miles of secret passages , dreams of dead relatives that become reality , women in flowing white gowns wandering through the night , rituals designed to raise the dead , and a hint of lesbianism are the highlights of the movie . Add to that the presence of Christopher Lee ( even if he has very little to do ) and you've got the basics of a good movie . But given my rating ( ) , it's obvious I had some problems with Crypt of Horror . Whether it's the result of editing , poor dubbing , or an incoherent script , there are problems with the plot . There are far too many things that happen that make little sense or seem to have no bearing on anything else going on . Take the housekeeper and her continued attempts to bring the spirit of the dead witch back to life . Sure , the witch is pivotal to the plot , but why is she trying to summon the witch ? What is her motivation ? At least in my copy of the movie , it's never explained . There are other examples of where the plot gets muddled , but you get the idea .
Payton's personal life may be sad , but that doesn't make her an actor .	Bad Blonde is a great title for a very average movie . It's also the first of the Hammer noirs made in the 1950s I've had a chance to watch . I've always been a fan of Hammer's horror output , so it's a treat to get the opportunity to see what the studio was doing pre-1957 . The movie tells the ( somewhat unoriginal ) story of young up-and-coming boxer who gets mixed up with his promoter's steamy , blonde wife . She bends him to her will and uses him to get what she wants ? even if that means committing murder . In a broad , general sense , Bad Blonde kept me entertained throughout . Director Reginald Le Borg keeps things moving at a good pace . The film looks good and the country estate set is a standout . And the movie features a wonderful performance from Sid James . The man carries much of the film on his own . Unfortunately , I can't say the same about some of the rest of the acting . The problems I have with Bad Blonde that make it just barely above average relate almost completely to the two leads . Tony Wright and Barbara Payton , are terribly unconvincing . For Wright , this was his first film , so I can forgive some of his stiffness . But for Payton , Bad Blonde was supposed to something of a return to glory . After only four years of making films , she was already washed-up by 1953 . Her story may be a sad one filed with every possible form of self-destruction imaginable , but it doesn't change my opinion of her acting . With the exception of a few memorable moments , she doesn't come across as the smoldering sexpot she's supposed to be . To the contrary , I actually found her quite unappealing . Even though Bad Blonde didn't knock my socks off , I'm looking forward to giving the other five films in the new Hammer Film Noir Collector's Set a chance . At a minimum , and if for no other reason , it's interesting to see how the American B-noirs were translated to Great Britain .
A misleading title	In The Devil Commands , Boris Karloff is Dr . Julian Blair , a scientist working on experiments with brain waves . When his wife suddenly dies , he is so distraught that he turns his attention to using his brain wave machine to contact his wife . He meets a medium named Mrs . Walters ( Anne Revere ) who may hold the key to his success . But Mrs . Walters has another idea for Dr . Blair's experiments . She sees the opportunity to make a fortune with Dr . Blair's machine if he's successful . And she will stop at nothing to see that the experiments succeed . To begin with , I have no idea what the title , The Devil Commands , has to do with anything in the movie . It's Mrs . Walters who is directing the events in the movie , not the devil . But I suppose a title like Mrs . Walters Commands wouldn't have been nearly as intriguing or saleable . Although Karloff is the star of this movie , he has surprisingly little to do . He plays a one note character with an overwhelming desire to contact his dead wife . Karloff gives a decent performance , but he's just not very interesting . It's Anne Revere that makes The Devil Commands worth watching . She gives an understated , but delightfully evil performance and dominates everything on screen . The rest of the cast is okay , but no one stands out . The highlight of the movie has to be the final scenes in Dr . Blair's laboratory . The sight of several dead bodies sitting around a table connected to the brain wave machine is morbidly fascinating . Unfortunately , too much of the movie is only average and no where near as fun as the final moments .
Almost as much fun as I remembered	Slim and Tubby ( Bud Abbott and Lou Costello ) are two bumbling American policemen studying the techniques of the British police . They get into a bit of trouble and are kicked off the force . Tracking down the monster that has been terrorizing London would seem to be a way to get them back in the good graces of the police force . Along the way , Slim and Tubby are befriended by a seemingly kindly doctor named Jekyll . But Jekyll is not what or who he seems . He's actually the killer our " heroes " are hunting . Another childhood favorite , I hadn't seen Abbott and Costello Meet Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde in literally two or more decades . I was worried that it would never live up to the fond memories I've built up over the years . Overall , I enjoyed it . Considering it's one of A & C's later films , it's a solid effort . Part of the reason may be that the boys didn't revisit their classic routines as I've noticed in some of the other movies from this period . And the fact that the boys work within the framework of the plot helps . Whatever , it's just fun . The chase scenes are the highlight for me . I found myself laughing at the same things I found funny 35 years ago . And it's always nice to see Karloff . His scenes with the boys are quite good . If it weren't for the scenes where Costello is turned into a mouse that I find utterly ridiculous ( even in the framework of an A & C movie ) and that put a drag on the flow of the movie , I might have rated Abbott and Costello Meet Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde even higher .
" Pardon me , Professor , but didn't I just see you outside baying at the moon ? "	Most of the reviews on IMDb for Scared to Death give it a good trashing . And , while I understand it has many flaws , I didn't find it to be as bad as some of the reviews would lead one to believe . Maybe I was just in the right frame of mind or something . The basic story : A women is slowing being driven mad . So mad in fact , that by the end of the movie she is literally scared to death ( I'm not giving anything away as the fact she is dead is presented in the first minute of the movie ) . She is presented with numerous images and circumstances that become too much for her to bear . There are several suspects - her husband , her father-in-law , the maid , her husband's mysterious uncle , the uncle's dwarf companion , or could it be someone else ? But which one of the suspects is behind it ? You'll have to watch to find out . Scared to Death stars Bela Lugosi and George Zucco . Lugosi is obviously having fun . He seems to understand just how silly some of the situations are , yet he handles each as if it were life and death . Zucco , on the other hand , acts most of the film as if he would rather be someplace else . Very aloof . The rest of the cast does a decent job with the material they are given . This is the only time I've ever seen Lugosi in color . The film is marketed as being his only color picture , although I'm not sure that's true . The color is very nicely used throughout the movie . Very vivid . Some of the flaws in the movie : a little stagey at times , goofy dialogue , and it may prove slow to some . The biggest annoyance , however , is the way the story is told . It's presented in a series of flashbacks from the dead woman at the morgue . It gets old real quick . But for the most part , I was able to look past these weaknesses and have a good time . One final note . I picked up the DVD for $5 from Alpha . This is one of the better Alpha DVDs I've seen . While there are a few spots and other picture flaws here and there , overall the picture quality is good . The sound ( so often bad on older films ) is above average . All in all , for $5 , Scared to Death is a wonderful addition to my DVD library .
Too many problems for me to call it great	- After reading the plot description and a few reviews , I felt certain that Leave Her to Heaven would be one of those movies I would immediately fall in love with . Gene Tierney's presence alone should have been enough to make it a sure fire winner with me . While it's not bad , I can't give it a full endorsement . As much as I hate doing this , I'll focus on two of the problems that stand out . 1 . The Plot - I realize that this is a movie and not necessarily a reflection of real life , but the plot was just too unrealistic . We are supposed to believe that this woman was so evil and self-obsessed that she killed herself just to make others miserable . How silly is that ? A woman like that would want to be around to see what effect her actions were having . 2 . Cornel Wilde - My biggest problem with the movie was the casting of Cornel Wilde . He is so utterly dry and vanilla that watching grass grow is more exciting . Rarely have I been treated to a more lackluster performance . Are we really supposed to believe that a character like the one played by Gene Tierney would fall for this guy ? I didn't buy it for a second . - With little tinkering on the plot and casting , this could have been an outstanding movie .
The movie may be mildly entertaining , but Bardot is fantastic !	Virginie Dandieu ( Brigitte Bardot ) finds her husband standing over the corpse of the dance instructor who had been blackmailing him . Convinced of his innocence , Virginie lands a job at the dance studio to investigate the murder and clear her husband . Between the police , the suspects in the dance studio , and her family , Virginie's got her work cut out for her . Come Dance with Me is at worst a mildly entertaining mystery with bit of humor mixed in for good measure . You'll never fall out of your seat laughing out loud , but a few scenes did bring a smile to my face . The mystery elements suffer a bit because it's the kind of movie where you know everything will work out in the end . This was my first experience watching a Brigitte Bardot movie . And it certainly won't be my last . Bardot had a screen presence that's hard to beat . She is the center of every scene in which she appears regardless of what she's doing or not doing . It's impossible to watch a scene and not have your eyes glued to her every movement . I can't wait to discover more of her films .
A fond childhood memory	I was nine years old when Disney's Snowball Express first came out . I can still remember seeing it in the theaters and having an absolute wonderful time with it . I've seen it several times over the years since and while I no longer consider it one of my favorites , I still have a good time with it . Regardless of how old I've become or how much my taste in movies has changed , Snowball Express never fails to provide some level of entertainment or make me laugh out loud at a couple of the funnier moments . It's just good , simple , clean fun . One thing that makes many of these Disney live action films good to me is the presence of Dean Jones . He is an Everyman . He has such an easy-going , amiable air about him that it's easy to put yourself in his shoes . His reaction to situations and events occurring around him rings true ( given a certain level of exaggeration necessary for comedy ) . It's this believability that makes him relatable and perfect for a role like the one in Snowball Express .
Unintentionally , Rattlers is a funny movie	What a completely ridiculous movie . Rattlers ' plot is so nonsensical it's hysterical . A series of snakebite deaths has the local sheriff worried so he calls in a snake expert and male chauvinist , Dr . Tom Parkinson ( Sam Chew ) for assistance . The sheriff has also seemingly at random hired a photographer and women's libber named Ann Bradley ( Elisabeth Chauvet ) to help . It's like oil and water when these two get together . But it doesn't take an Einstein to figure out that these two will overcome their difference and hop into bed together before the end of the movie . Anyway , Tom and Ann begin searching the desert for . . . well , it's never clear what they hope to find , but boy do they ever search . On foot , in a jeep , and in a helicopter , Tom and Ann tirelessly and endlessly search the desert . The excitement was almost more than I could bear . About the only thing they find is a piece of bloody cloth that is quickly forgotten , never to be mentioned again . Oh , they also find a military storage base . Tom and Ann discover that some of the nerve gas the military buried in the desert has had a strange effect on the rattlesnakes . Of course no other animal is affected ? just the snakes . In the end , the snakes are accidentally destroyed in one of the goofiest shootouts ever put on film and Tom and Ann are able to ride off into the sunset having done absolutely nothing to solve the rattlesnake problem . The end . There are quite a few unintentionally hilarious scenes and set-pieces in Rattlers . My absolute favorite moment involves two Army types patrolling the desert in the middle of the night . While tooling around in their jeep , they have a blow-out . They get out to investigate and find that a snake has bitten through their tire . Yes , that's right ? a rattlesnake launched itself at a moving jeep , grabbed a tire with its fangs , and bit down hard enough puncture the tire . This has to be the single most stupid thing I've seen in a movie in a long time . Gotta love it ! So please don't misinterpret my rating - Rattlers is not a good movie , but it is a funny movie . Intentional or not , I was entertained .
Lee , Hoven , Kinski , and Mell in the same movie ! It's a Euro-film lovers dream !	A series of wealthy individuals are being blackmailed throughout England . It's either pay up or die . Two different Chicago gangs are believed to be behind the blackmail schemes , but the police are unable to gather enough evidence to put them out of business . It's up to Scotland Yard Inspector Weston ( Adrian Hoven ) and the FBI's Captain Allerman ( Christopher Lee ) to put the bad guys behind bars . The Secret of the Red Orchid is an interesting mix of comedy and crime . There's probably more comedy in this Krimi than I've seen in my limited experience with these movies and , fortunately , some of it works . Eddi Arnett's " Butler of Death " is a character that could have been really annoying in lesser hands . The rest of the cast is just as capable . In addition to Lee and Hoven , the film also features genre legend Klaus Kinski as mob boss head Gunner Steve and the always delightful Marisa Mell in an early role . Lee , Hoven , Kinski , and Mell in the same movie ! It's a Euro-film lovers dream ! On the downside , there are plot holes big enough to drive a truck through . Why does it take the police so long to catch the blackmailers ? They know right from the start who is responsible for the killings . Another big problem with the film is the dubbing . Lee's dubbing is horrible . He sounds as flat as can be . And the dubbing of the gangsters has them sounding like a bunch of cartoon characters . The poor dubbing certainly takes away from the enjoyment of the film .
One Small , Sleepy Town vs the Spider would have been a more appropriate title	When it comes to giant bug movies , Earth vs the Spider is one of my favorites . Yeah , parts of it are definitely corny and unbelievable , but for me , these things only add to the movie's charm . What's not to like about watching Fred Ziffel getting backed into a corner by a giant spider . And the special effects , while not up to today's standards , are really nicely done . I've seen a lot of big bug movies that don't look half as good as this one does . Another highlight is the casual way the cave is blown-up and , later , the way our heroes are rescued . They just don't make ' em like that anymore . Good stuff ! I suppose my biggest complaint with Earth vs the Spider has always been with the title . A more appropriate title would have been One Small , Sleepy Town vs the Spider .
Good , but too many problems for me to call it great	- Three different groups set out through the jungles of the Amazon with a singular goal - to find treasure . They must overcome wild animals , cannibals , headhunters , and , ultimately , themselves if they are to reach their goal and make it out alive . - Treasure of the Amazon has some really good things going for it . First , it features some of the most over-the-top moments I've seen recently . The headhunter attack scenes are a hoot . The low budget special effects add a nice touch . Second , almost every member of the cast delivers a solid performance . Stewart Whitman , Pedro Armendariz , Donald Pleasence , and Sonia Infante are all worth watching . Third , the jungle setting is fabulous . Nice touches with the scenes of animals intercut with the film . The lush jungle is beautiful and frightening at the same time . And fourth , the ending is perfect . - But there are things about the movie I didn't care for that keep me from rating it any higher . First , I said that almost every member of the cast was solid . The biggest and most glaring exception is former Miss World Ann Sidney . Her fake Southern accent got old very quickly . Second , John Ireland is so underused I forgot he was even in the movie . I've always enjoyed his work and would like to have seen more of him . Third , and most importantly , the movie gives off a vibe to me that's hard to explain , but kept me from fully enjoying the movie . Much of the film came across to me like an episode of the television show Fantasy Island . Take away the gory bits and I half expected to see Mr . Roarke walking out of the woods in his white suit . It doesn't help matters that I remember seeing half of the cast on the show at various times .
Better than its reputation suggests	- The movie begins with Dr . Frankenstein buying a corpse from a grave-robber to use in his experiments . His daughter's arrival puts a kink in his plans , but he forges on in his quest to create life . When his monster does come to life , it immediately attacks and kills the good Doctor . Tania ( the daughter ) is also a doctor and wants to carry-on with her father's experiments . So , while the original monster terrorizes the community , Tania hatches a plan to take the brain from Marshall , the lab assistant , and place it into the hunky ( Did I just use that word ? ) body of a retarded servant . Will she succeed ? - What's not to like about a Frankenstein movie where the basis of creating life is sex ? Tania doesn't get all philosophical on us and start babbling about discovering the origins of life and the secrets of God . Sure , Tania wants to see her father's reputation restored by proving his theories , but she also wants to create the ultimate lover and isn't afraid to say so . It's as good a reason as any I've heard in a movie for creating a monster . - I've always thought that Lady Frankenstein was better than its reputation suggests . Oh , it's got problems , but I always have fun watching it . Lady Frankenstein comes across to me as an Italian Hammer-style film - rich , vibrant colors , nice Gothic touches , attention to details , and a lot of fake looking blood . The cast consists of a who's who of Euro regulars . Joseph Cotten , Rosalba Neri , Paul Muller , and even Mickey Hargitay give performances that are as good as most any other Italian horror film of the period . I also like the references to the old Universal film that can be found in Lady Frankenstein . For example , Dr . Frankenstein's line about man being God on earth takes Colin Clive's speech from the original Frankenstein to a whole new level .
" You can always get information from women . They just love to talk ! "	Nancy Drew ( Bonita Granville ) and her classmates are given the opportunity to write actual stories for a newspaper . Not satisfied with covering a poetry reading , Nancy switches her assignment with one of a real reporter and ends up at an inquest . Based on the evidence presented , a lady is accused of poisoning an old woman for an inheritance . But Nancy's not buying it . Dragging her pal Ted Nickerson ( Frankie Thomas ) and her father Carson ( John Litel ) along for the ride , Nancy is determined to find the real killer . As with Nancy Drew , Detective , the plot is hardly what matters in a movie like this . In fact , the plot is probably the weakest element of Nancy Drew ? Reporter . It's too light , too breezy , and , worst of all , too predictable . I defy anyone not to pick out the killer within the first few minutes . However , it's the cast that makes these movies worthwhile . Once again , Bonita Granville shines . She gives real life and spirit to her character . I hate to repeat part of my comment on Ms . Granville from Nancy Drew , Detective , but it remains apropos ? " She has an infectious charm that dominates the entire movie . It's hard to watch her and not have a smile on your face . You just naturally root for her . " She once again joined by a strong supporting cast . I especially enjoyed Ned's bratty sister played by Mary Lee . Really nice job ! Finally , I should probably mention that Nancy Drew . . . Reporter features a musical number . Nancy and company literally sing for their supper in a Chinese restaurant . While it hardly fits with the rest of the movie , I thought it was cute .
" Some day I'm gonna get psychoanalyzed and find out why I'm such a dope . "	Nancy Drew , with the invaluable assistance of her friend Ted Nickerson , comes to the aid of two old spinsters about to lose their home . As part of their father's will , the old women must live in the house for 20 years or its ownership will change to the city . But the death of the chauffeur , a theft in the middle of the night , and voices in walls have the sisters ready to abandon their home and their legacy . It's up to Nancy and Ted to find out what's going on and , in the process , unmask a killer . Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase is probably my least favorite of the series . That's not to say it's a bad , unentertaining movie , it's just not as good as the three movies that came before it . If I had to point to any one thing that bothered me about the movie it would be the complete lack of reality . While I realize that none of the four movies in the series is set in what I consider the real world , Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase takes it a bit too far . For example , while Nancy is quite often misleading about what evidence she may have found while investigating a case , she crosses the line in this movie when she fabricates a suicide note and / or fails to tell the police about a bullet casing she's discovered . I don't care whose daughter she is or how much she has helped the police in the past , you get into real trouble when you start tampering with evidence . But enough of my preaching . Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase is still a lot of fun . Bonita Granville and Frankie Thomas are as enjoyable as ever . The movie is well paced and at an hour in length there's not enough time for a wasted scene . The comedy is often quite funny . I found myself chuckling at more than one scene ( the ice piling up on the ice box for example ) . While there's no real mystery as to the killer's identity , watching Nancy and Ted discover the how's and why's is a lot of fun . Finally , I'm a sucker for a movie set in an old house with moving walls and secret passages . They're just too much fun !
" You know , you remind me of an old Egyptian girlfriend of mine . The Sphinx . "	Three American's leave Hong Kong headed for Macao . While the three don't know each other , their lives are soon to be intertwined . Macao is essentially run by a gambler and crook named Vincent Halloran ( Brad Dexter ) . He's always on the look out for American cops looking to put the clamp on his operation and take him back to the U . S . to stand trial . Halloran is convinced that one of the new arrivals , Nick Cochran ( Robert Mitchum ) , is his man and wants to get him off the island before Cochran can get the drop on him . Complicating matters is Julie Benson ( Jane Russell ) , who both Cochran and Halloran have a thing for , and Lawrence C . Trumble ( William Bendix ) , a man who seems just a bit too interested in what's going on in Macao . It's not that Macao is a bad movie , but you can certainly find better . Macao does nothing outstanding or overly memorable that allows it to rise much above the average mark . Take the film's two leads , Robert Mitchum and Jane Russell . I thought the pair was pretty good in His Kind of Woman . But here they're basically playing the same roles . It's the same relationship and dialogue all over again . How about something to spice things up a bit ? The rest of the movie is similarly uneventful . Brad Dexter's tough guy Halloran isn't that tough . Thomas Gomez's Lt . Sebastian isn't as slimy and underhanded as he might have been . And William Bendix's character is far too easy to see through and figure out his motivations . Like I said , it's not that Macao is bad , it's just not as good as it could or should have been . If you enjoy watching Robert Mitchum play the same role he played dozens of times and if you enjoy watching Jane Russell sing and wear fabulous clothes , Macao might be the movie for you . If you want real excitement , suspense , and drama and the chance to see Mitchum and Russell do something that will " wow " you , you'll be disappointed .
A nice little poverty row thriller	Strangler of the Swamp is a surprisingly nice little poverty row thriller from PRC . While many of today's horror fans would find little to frighten , it's a wonderful example of creating atmosphere on a VERY limited budget . The movie concerns the ghost of a ferryman , seeking revenge for being unjustly hanged . He's out to get those who ' done him wrong ' . My biggest problem with the story is that it gets away from the spooky swamp too often in favor of a love story . Had the movie concentrated more on the Strangler and the creepy swamp and less on the love story , Strangler of the Swamp would have been much better . The direction of Frank Wisbar is tight and he gets the most out of the limited funding he was given . One final note , the movie stars Blake Edwards ( of Pink Panther fame ) in an early role . Not the best , but better than many of the films PRC was cranking out in the 40s .
Wonderful setting , but a ridiculous plot point	Summoned to Baghdad at the behest of a Russian Countess , Hercule Poirot ( David Suchet ) instead finds himself mixed up in a murder at a nearby archaeological dig . This is , however , no ordinary murder . With only one entrance to the room the woman was found in and several witnesses to the fact that no on entered or exited , Poirot will have to come up with a clever solution to trap a clever killer . Even with my rating , I feel I may have overrated Murder in Mesopotamia . It's got some good points ? the exotic Tunisian locations standing in for Iraq , David Suchet , the archaeological dig setting , and an interesting , if improbable , means of murder . And there's something extra appealing about a locked room type mystery . But Murder in Mesopotamia suffers from one hugely ridiculous plot point that I am completely unable to overlook . It's not really the fault of the makers of this adaptation - instead , I lay the blame squarely at Agatha Christie's original work . - BIG SPOILERS AHEAD ? Are we really supposed to believe that Mrs . Leidner could marry a man and not realize he was her supposedly dead first husband ? I cannot fathom something so far-fetched as this actually happening . I don't care how much his face has changed , I'm unwilling to take that kind of leap in logic . I've always thought it was one of the silliest things Christie ever wrote . Unless she was a complete idiot , surely Mrs . Leidner would have realized at some point that she had married the same man twice . ? END OF BIG SPOILERS
Now I need to see the whole , uncut version	First Spaceship to Venus is one of those movies that I seem to have been aware of for what seems like forever . Yet , until the other night , I had never actually seen the movie . I didn't know anything about it and just assumed it was another of those goofy sci-fi films Hollywood was so good at pumping out in the 50s . Well , I was wrong . The most obvious fault in my thinking was the Hollywood part . First Spaceship to Venus was made about as far from Southern California as you could get ? Poland and East Germany . Yeah , that's right ? First Spaceship to Venus is a commie sci-fi movie . And while the dialogue may be dubbed , inappropriate music may have been added , and story elements changed to fit American sensibilities of the time , a lot of director Kurt Maetzig's vision gets through . There's a level of intelligence and seriousness often missing from American sci-fi films of the period . I'm certainly no astrophysicist ( or any kind of physicist for that matter ) , but a lot of what the scientists discuss and argue about at least sounds " good " . The special effects are certainly much better than the cardboard cutouts found in similar American films . The special effects , especially the Venutian landscape , really help to create a surreal atmosphere for the film that's more than a little compelling . Finally , though a little too " stoic " at times , the acting is quite good . The characters are played with realism . While it may never match something like Star Wars as an entertaining sci-fi film , First Spaceship to Venus is at a minimum a nice little curiosity piece that actually provokes some interesting questions about the role of technology in the world . For my first viewing , I actually watched the MST3K version of First Spaceship to Venus . And while I'm an unabashed fan of the show , I feel comfortable in my ability to separate the movie being presented from the nonsense going on around it . And while I found First Spaceship to Venus a real revelation , this episode of MST3K is one of the weakest I've yet seen . The jokes are too inconsistent and lack any sort of flow . And the running gag concerning Servo's non-stop sarcasm gets old real quick . Overall , on my MST3K rating scale , I give this episode of MST3K a ? find another episode to add to the top of your " to see " list .
Good , but not the movie I had hoped for	I finally got the chance to see The Heroin Busters and while I thought it was good , I didn't enjoy it as much as I had hoped . Maybe it's another of the cases where I built up a movie to much before I saw it because it wasn't the film I had been anticipating . The Heroin Busters gets off to a good start with a opening credit sequence featuring a montage of scenes highlighting drug trafficking in Hong Kong , Columbia , and Rome set to some nice 80s action-style music . The action sequences in The Heroin Busters are good , but the promised motorcycle and airplane chase big finale wasn't all that I had been led to believe it would be . It's good , but it ran a little too long for me . The action sequence immediately preceding the supposed big finish where Fabio Testi is being chased through the construction site is easily one of my favorite moments in the film . On the acting side , both Testi and David Hemmings are fine in their roles and I especially enjoyed the few scenes they had together . " Few " being the key word as I would have liked more shared screen time between the two . Finally , I never really bought the notion of Testi as a drug dealer . I knew something was up as soon as he came on screen .
What a groovy movie !	Sumuru ( Shirley Eaton ) is a woman bent on world domination . Her plan is to have her army of women get close the world's most powerful men , kill them , and assume their power . But standing in her way are two secret agents ? Agents Tommy Carter ( Frankie Avalon ) and Nick West ( George Nader ) . They convince a couple of Sumuru's followers to come over to their side before leading a raid on her island . But will they get Sumuru ? The Million Eyes of Sumuru is just quirky enough for me to really enjoy it . It's the kind of movie you can't take seriously ? you have to go with it . I just love these 60s spy-type movies with their armies of scantily clad women , secret island liars , and groovy secret agents . What an awesome time it was ! And , the fact that The Million Eyes of Sumuru was shot in China with a cast that includes Eaton , Avalon , Klaus Kinski , Maria Rohm , and Wilfrid Hyde-White ( of all people ) only adds to the already bizarre feel of the movie . Movies like this may not be for everyone ( just take a look at the IMDb rating ) , but for me their just too much fun . I would love to see a cleaned-up , legitimate , Region 1 release of The Million Eyes of Sumuru . I'm convinced I would have rated the film higher than a had I not been watching the MST3K version of the movie recorded off of Minneapolis public access television in the late 1980s . The Million Eyes of Sumuru deserves better than that .
" Once you've looked into the darkness I think you carry it with you for the rest of your life . "	Supposedly based on ( or should that be " inspired by " ? ) real events , The Exorcism of Emily Rose tells the story of a priest put on trial for the murder of a girl who died while undergoing an exorcism . Despite what the ads that ran when it was in the theater would have had you believe , it is not the story of Emily as much as it is the story of Father Moore's trial . Included in the many twists in the plot is whether or not the court will accept scientific evidence to support the claim of possession by demons . It's really an interesting and , for the most part , well done film . I had no problems with the plot , the logic behind the central themes in the movie , the acting , or most anything else . I actually quite enjoyed the movie . And as a bonus , I found that much of the film succeeded in being scary . I know a lot of people find these movies about God and demons to be unbelievable , but I think if you grew up with the Church and believing in Jesus , these movies can still be effective . If it weren't for a couple of issues I had with the movie , I could have easily rated it an . Where the movie really falters is in some of the character motivation and the lighting . Movies with horror themes are usually darkly lit ? I understand that . But there were some scenes where I had trouble seeing what was going on . I'm beginning to think I've got a problem with my eyes , but , for example , I could barely make out what was going on in the barn during the exorcism scenes . Or take the scenes of Father Moore in prison . What real prison is so dimly lit ? Most prisons I've seen will burn your retinas with the overhead fluorescents you can't escape . And the characters didn't make things any easier on me with the ridiculousness of some of their actions . Suppose you were like Emily and thought you might be possessed by demons . Do you really think you would walk down a dark hall without once trying to turn on the lights ? Or what if you were the attorney , Erin Bruner , and you had started experiencing freaky things at 3 : 00 am every morning . Would you really stumble through your house looking for things that go bump in the night without once turning on a light ? The answer to both questions ? no you wouldn't . Please , somebody turn on a light ! It was so frustrating . I was ready to pull out what little hair I have left .
Okay - but not as good as the original	Usually , my first impressions of a movie holds true upon repeat viewings . Unless the story is particularly deep or the plot difficult to follow , subsequent viewings generally do not change my initial reaction to a movie to any great degree . So , as I sat to watch The House on Haunted Hill , I wasn't expecting much . The film is not without some major faults , but overall , I enjoyed my second experience . Scenes such as the operating room flashback or touches like the hall of embalmed bodies are the stuff of nightmares as far as I'm concerned . The house itself is another major bonus to the movie . The interior is presented , lit , and shot in a manner that creates almost immediate atmosphere . The seemingly endless corridors , the surgical / medical rooms with their devices of " torture " , and the blood present almost everywhere added to my feeling that the house is the real star of the movie . But , as I said , the movie does have its faults . I'll just mention two : First - paper thin characters . It's really difficult to care about many of the character in this movie because we know nothing about most of them . Other than Geoffrey Rush's character , the others are there merely for the slaughter . They aren't real . Second - the ending . This appears to be everyone's major complaint , and with good reason . All of the atmosphere and creepiness the movie had built is destroyed the moment the CGI " darkness " makes an appearance . It is so out of place with everything that had gone on before . It's to bad that the writers couldn't come up with a good ending - I would have much preferred an ending involving the doctor or former patients . The movie had been heading in that direction all along . When I initially saw this in the theater , I would have rated it a . My opinion has now , however , changed . I may never consider it a masterpiece , but there are some moments that are very effective and make it worth watching .
Not quite up to the level of the first two films in the series	Yeogo goedam 3 ( Wishing Stairs ) is a sequel in name only . Other than the setting of the film ( an all-girl's school in Korea ) , it has very little to do with the other films in the series . In this one , there is a staircase on the school grounds that the students believe is magical . The staircase has 28 steps . When you reach the top , if a 29th step appears , it will grant your wish . When one of the girls is killed in a fall , another of the girls uses the magical staircase to wish her friend back to life . But she gets more than she bargained for . As with the other films in the series , Wishing Stairs is very well made . The directors of this film are able to get some very nice performances out of the mostly unknown and unexperienced cast . Technically the film is very sound with some nice cinematography as the highlight . The special effects are well done and help create some very creepy moments . Overall , it's a nice installment to the series . But , I haven't rated Wishing Stairs as high as I did the previous two films . Why ? It's a little too formalistic and unoriginal . One of the elements that made Wishing Corridors and Memento Mori memorable is the subtle use of horror . In contrast , the horror is more obvious in Wishing Stairs . At times it seems like one set piece after the next with nothing of substance pushing the plot along . As for unoriginal , if you've seen Ringu , you've seen one of the big moments in this movie . Wishing Stairs has a very pale girl with long black hair crawling in jerky motions through a window . Sound familiar ?
" Hey , Mr . Moto ! Indemnify me for these mugs ! "	Mr . Moto has been called to Puerto Rico to investigate diamond smuggling . As his predecessor was found murdered , Moto knows that the gang he's up against will kill to keep their illicit business in operation . Moto quickly comes to the conclusion that there must be leak within the Governor's inner circle . But these are trusted men ! Surely Moto must be wrong . And what does the swamp that once harbored pirates have to do with the band of modern day criminals ? It's up to Moto to put the pieces together . While none of the movies in the Moto series could be called " high art " , most provide at least an entertaining way to spend just over an hour . Of the 6 or so Moto movies I've now seen , Mr . Moto in Danger Island is easily the least of the bunch . While Peter Lorre is as entertaining as always and seems to be giving it his all , the plot lets him down at every turn . In many of these movies from the 30s , the plots rely on coincidence ( or plain old dumb luck ) to solve the mystery . The set of circumstances required to solve the mystery in Mr . Moto in Danger Island borders on being ridiculous . And while I'm on the subject of things in the movie that bothered me , I'll mention that not once did the movie feel like it was actually set in Puerto Rico . I cannot remember seeing anyone who even resembled a Puerto Rican . Given all the white guys present , the movie looks like it should have been set in Des Moines instead of Puerto Rico . Still , it's Moto and I'm a sucker for this kind of stuff . I just love these stage-bound adventure type movies form the 30s . As I mentioned , Lorre is entertaining . For the most part , the supporting cast is just as strong . I always enjoy Leon Ames and Douglass Dumbrille every time I see them pop-up in one of these movies . Also on the positive side , while it may not have looked like Puerto Rico , the movie still looked great . I'm not all that familiar with the cinematographer , Lucien N . Andriot , but I'll give him the credit for making Mr . Moto in Danger Island look far better than it should have given its meager budget . In the end , it's not great , but I can think of far worse ways spend and hour . Fans of the Moto series will find enough to make them happy . For what it's worth , I'll give Mr . Moto in Danger Island a .
You could do far worse than Hell Night	- As part of their initiation , two fraternity pledges and two sorority pledges must spend the night in creepy old Garth Manor . Before entering the house , the pledges are told the story of the Garth family - twelve years ago , old man Garth murdered his whole deformed family before taking his own life . However , some say that at least one member of the Garth clan survived . During the night , some of the other fraternity and sorority members try to scare the four pledges locked in the spooky mansion . But when people start turning up dead , it's obvious that this is no college prank . - For the most part , Hell Night is a standard 80s slasher . A group of young people in an isolated location are picked-off one at a time until only the end girl is left alive . I don't think this is much of a spoiler because most anyone could guess who is going to be left alive at the end of the movie . In fact , it's easy to predict with a fair amount of accuracy the order these people are going to die . The murders aren't extremely violent and some are left to the viewer's imagination . This was probably the result of budget constraints more than anything . The killers ' make-up is bargain basement and not nearly as effective as some of the other movies of the period . Some of the acting is terrible and Vincent Van Patten is extremely annoying . - So , if the movie is predictable with poor special effects and acting , why haven't I rated Hell Night any lower ? Other than those areas I've mentioned , the movie is reasonably well made . The house is fantastic and almost outshines any of the humans in the cast . Secret passages and long , dark corridors always make for fun in this kind of movie . Hell Night would have actually benefited had more emphasis been placed on the house . The movie is at worst competently directed by DeSimone . He does an above average job of creating atmosphere and creepy moments . And , on a personal level , I always enjoy Linda Blair in just about anything she does . - While it will never be known as a great movie , you could do far worse with a teen slasher than watching Hell Night .
Ahoy there Templars	In the third installment of the Blind Dead series , we find the Templars at sea on a decrepit , fog-shrouded galleon waiting for some intrepid explorer to come aboard . I've read the comments about how fake the galleon looks and while I agree , I was able to get past that . The on-deck galleon sets are nicely done considering the budget de Ossorio had to work with . The scenes of the Templars slowly rising from the bowels of the ship are effectively creepy . Add to that the claustrophobic feeling of being trapped on the ghost ship with no way to escape and The Ghost Galleon becomes a fairly fun sequel in the series . And then there's that ending . I thought de Ossorio would never equal the final shots of Tombs of the Blind Dead , but he comes close in The Ghost Galleon . The scene of the Templars rising out of the sea is a highlight of the entire series . My biggest problem with The Ghost Galleon comes from the cast . Maybe it has something to do with the dubbing ( the worst of the series ) , but almost every one of these people deserved to die for being so stupid . They spout silly dialogue and insist on doing silly things . The worst are the three supposed " models " . I put this word in quotes because three less likely looking models I've never seen . These three couldn't die fast enough for me .
The introduction of Dr . Zin	In " The Riddle of the Gold " , the Quest gang heads to India to check out a mine that has suddenly started producing a large quantity of gold . The problem , as Dr . Quest has discovered , is that it's not real . Who's behind this attempt at passing-off a worthless mineral as gold ? And what dangers lay ahead for Dr . Quest , Race , Jonny , Hadji , and Bandit in India ? The single best thing " The Riddle of the Gold " has going for it is the introduction of Quest nemesis Dr . Zin . When I was younger , Dr . Zin represented the ultimate in bad guys ? seemingly unlimited resources , grand evil plans , and a desire to do harm to anyone standing in his path . Other than that , there's really not a lot to get overly excited about in this episode . The tiger hunt , one of the episode's main set pieces , never really worked for me . One thing about this episode that I find odd is seeing Dr . Quest and family on a commercial airline . Why not take the private jet they always flew in ? I suppose the writers did it to pad the script and create a few comedic moments with Bandit on the airplane . There's really no other good explanation .
Jonny finds a fortune in treasure	At the request of a Central / South American government ( I'm just guessing because I don't remember the actual country being named ) , the Quest Gang travel to do some scientific research at an ancient Mayan city . But they're not alone . An explorer named Perkins is already there looking for a rumored treasure . When Jonny accidentally finds a secret room , it looks like certain death for our heroes . " Treasure of the Temple " may not be the best episode , but it's certainly entertaining enough . There's a certain amount of intrigue that goes into the mysterious occurrences surrounding the Quests ' trip to the archaeological dig . And there's certainly no shortage of dangers ? from spiked traps to alligators to underwater rivers to pyramids to natives to hidden rooms to a fortune in treasure , there's something interesting around every corner . Also , and a real change-of-pace to a lot of the first few episodes of Johnny Quest , " Treasure of the Temple " doesn't feature an Asian or Middle-Eastern bad guy . It's nice to see the writers could turn a white , Anglo Saxon into a killer . Unfortunately for " Treasure of the Temple " , there's nothing " big " to make it stand out from many of the other episodes . There's nothing like the mummy Anubis , for example , to make this episode especially memorable . It's good ? just not great .
Creepy Mummy Make-Up	The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb ( 1964 ) is Hammer's second venture into the world of ancient Egypt . Without giving too much away , the story is similar to all mummy films - an ancient tomb is opened and those who opened it must pay . To many , the film may seem slow to start , but once the mummy is released , things pick up . Terence Morgan , Ronald Howard , and Jeanne Roland are all adequate , but somewhat uninspired . Fred Clark is the brightest spot in the movie as the wealthy Alexander King . Clark's character , obviously inspired by PT Barnum , is a breath of fresh air to this otherwise predictable mummy story . He is looking to cash in on the mummy by presenting it as some sort of sideshow spectacle . The mummy make-up is good - the most obvious comparison would be to that of Kharis in the Universal mummy sequels . Also , like Kharis and unlike Christopher Lee in Hammer's first mummy film , this mummy walks and moves in a more " normal " pace . He is not the athletic mummy played by Lee . After reading this it may sound as if I didn't like The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb . While not the best mummy movie or the best Hammer film , it's still fun - especially the final third of the movie .
Some Hits - Some Misses	Torture Garden ( 1967 ) is a series of four short horror stories made by Amicus ( the company made several of these anthologies ) . The stories are held together by Dr . Diabolo ( Burgess Meredith ) - the owner of a circus sideshow . For an extra charge , he'll show you something really frightening . Each patron is presented with a vision of what may or may not happen in the future . The first vision deals with a man who has " inherited " a cat that turns out to be a witch's familiar . The cat can make the man rich and asks only to be fed in return . The problem is that the cat has developed a taste for humans . Very effective story with several thrills along the way . The second story concerns a woman who will do anything to succeed in Hollywood . Well , almost anything . When she discovers that many of Hollywood's elite are androids , she balks at the thought of voluntarily becoming one of them . Not overly effective with little or no moments of horror . The saving grace of this story is the beautiful Beverly Adams - who will always be Lovey Kravezit in Dean Martin's Matt Helm movies . The third vision is the worst . A girl is killed by a piano for coming between it and its owner . I think this is the only killer piano movie I've ever seen . Very silly premise . The fourth vision is by far the most entertaining . Peter Cushing and Jack Palance star as Poe fanatics . In fact , Cushing is such a fanatic that he has Poe himself as part of his collection . The acting in this story is ( as expected ) excellent . Palance holds his own with the horror legend Cushing . The sets are extremely well done for a film of this type . This story could have been fleshed out to make a good full length film . Overall , some hits and some misses .
What would you do for a fortune ?	- A will is read in a big , old , dark house . The beneficiary can only claim the inheritance if she survives the night . Otherwise , the fortune goes to a secondary beneficiary who will only be named should the first beneficiary die . Anyone could be that secondary beneficiary - and someone is willing to kill to find out who it is . - The house is wonderful - lots of rooms and secret passages . I love a house with a sliding bookcase and that's exactly what you get here . The house creates a perfect setting for a murder mystery . Surprisingly , there is some pretty good atmosphere . - Much of the movie is meant to be a comedy and that's where The Cat and the Canary falters . Had it been played straight , it might have been more enjoyable . - The movie was directed by Radley Metzger . The fact that a porn director was able assemble a cast including Edward Fox , Olivia Hussey , Honor Blackman , and the wonderful Wendy Hiller is amazing . The fact that he was able to pull the whole thing off as well as he did is a miracle .
Lenzi Does Jonestown	Just as I did with Massacre in Dinosaur Valley , I've probably overrated Eaten Alive . I readily admit that it's not a very good movie . But it's so bizarre and so much fun that I can't help myself . If you throw in cannibals , a religious nut , bad dubbing , and Me Me Lai , you've got a sure fired winner as far as I'm concerned . It seems to me that Umberto Lenzi had an idea for making a film based on the Jim Jones story , but decided to spice it up by placing cannibals in the jungle . The Jonesesque aspects of the story are undeniable ? a cult , under the control of a ruthless leader , set-up a jungle compound to practice their strange form of religion . The followers are kept in line through the use of physical punishment and are threatened with death if they disobey . There's even a plan to distribute something similar to the poisonous Kool-Aid used in Guyana should the need arise for a mass suicide . Even the name Lenzi selected for his cult leader ? Jonas ? seems to have been done so to remind viewers of what happened in the Jungles of Guyana just a year or so earlier . While the Jim Jones story had been told before , Lenzi puts in a few of his own original twists and keeps it at least interesting . The cannibal scenes , on the other hand , lack any form of originality . It is all too obvious that most of these scenes were lifted from other cannibal films ? Lenzi's and other directors . For example , Me Me's death scene is the same one from Ruggero Deodato's Jungle Holocaust . I don't mean to imply that Lenzi shot a scene similar to Deodato's . That would have required effort . Instead , Lenzi included Deodato's footage from Jungle Holocaust in Eaten Alive . And this is not the only example . Besides originality , there's no continuity . Me Me's death scenes starts out in broad daylight but suddenly shifts to a night time as filmed in Jungle Holocaust . And the fact that the cannibals never look the same in any two scenes is a bit disconcerting . Finally , as with most of these Italian cannibal films , those who are squeamish about real animal deaths should avoid Eaten Alive . I'm certainly not a fan of these scenes either .
The Werewolf Break	Tom Newcliffe ( Calvin Lockhart ) is a man of wealth who has enjoyed hunting just about every animal possible . He has invited a group of friends to his house for a hunting party . But this is no ordinary hunt . Newcliffe has it in his head that one of his friends is a werewolf . He's not sure which friend he will be hunting , but over the three night full moon cycle , he's sure the werewolf will show himself . Unfortunately for Newcliffe and the rest of his party , a werewolf proves to be the most cunning and dangerous game he's faced . I'll never list The Beast Must Die among my favorite films , but it's certainly enjoyable enough . The concept is original . I can't remember seeing anything similar . Much of the film is presented not so much as a horror movie , but as a mystery . These elements of The Beast Must Die worked for me . I found myself playing along as I tried to decipher the clues to the werewolf's identity . And in the end I was able to pat myself on the back for at least being half right . The Beast Must Die even gives the viewer a chance to stop and thing things over before the identity of the werewolf . William Castle would be proud of the Werewolf Break . Sure , it's gimmicky , but it's a fun , interesting touch . There are a few things I would have liked to see done differently . I've never been much of a fan of werewolves that are more wolf than man . The werewolf in The Beast Must Die has no human characteristics . It's a wolf ( okay , it's really a dog , but you get the idea ) . Also , I wasn't overly impressed with the lead actor Calvin Lockhart . He's just a little too over-the-top and outrageous to be effective .
" I had a pretty mind ! Oh God , I wish I had my pretty mind back . "	Michele Casey ( Leslie McRae ) has bigger plans for her future than working at her father's diner in the middle of nowhere . She dreams of being a dancer . When a smooth-talking lowlife named Buz Nichols ( Tom Pace ) offers her a ride to Los Angeles , she jumps at the chance . Along the way , the pair meet up with a draft dodger named Critter ( Jody Daniels ) who's also looking to get to L . A . Michele ends up getting a job dancing with Buz's junky sister at a club called the Haunted House . The club is run by some of the greasiest customers to ever use Vitalis . They've soon got Buz dealing dope for them . Can Michele escape the squalor her life has become or will she be dragged into the gutter ? Girl in Gold Boots is a difficult movie for me to rate . On the one hand , it's the kind of movie that makes you feel like taking a shower . It's a greasy experience . One scene in particular in the movie perfectly illustrates this effect on me . Buz's sister ( the druggy ) has almost passed out and is on the floor . There's a camera shot looking up from her perspective at her slimy boss . In the background just over his head is a giant brown stain on the drop-tile ceiling . It's nasty and disgusting but looks like most everything else in Girl in Gold Boots . I would like to think that the director , Ted V . Mikels , carefully chose this shot to use the brown stain as a representation of sorts for the character standing under it . But that's probably giving Mikels way too much credit . My guess is that the stained ceiling came with the location they were using . As nasty as it looks , it fits nicely with the rest of the movie . But I've rated Girl in Gold Boots a so it should be obvious that I found something about the movie to enjoy . It's hard to put finger on , but something about the story , the characters , and the incredibly lame dancing actually works for me . Some of it may be in the at " so bad it's good " sort of way , but whatever , I find it entertaining . I suppose this is one of those cases where comparing the movie to a train wreck is appropriate ? it's hard to look away . However , be warned ? based on the IMDb rating of 2 . 8 , it's obvious that I'm pretty much alone on this one . Girl in Gold Boots is one of those movies that I've seen both with and without the MST3K commentary . My opinion of the movie remains unchanged whichever way I watch it . The MST3K commentary itself is very funny . I rate Girl in Gold Boots a on my MST3K rating scale .
" You know everyone's seeing satellites these days . "	Nancy Archer ( Allison Hayes ) is a wealthy woman with a cheating husband . But that's really the least of her problems . One night while out in the desert , Nancy runs into a giant from outer space . She is found the next morning unconscious on top of her pool house . While under the care of her doctor , something strange begins to happen to Nancy . She begins to grow . In no time at all , Nancy is as big as the alien she ran into . And at 50 ' tall , there's nothing stopping her from putting a halt to her husband's cheating ways . How in the world can you watch Attack of the 50 Ft . Woman and not have a good time ? I think some people take movies like this too seriously and are so busy analyzing the poor special effects , the cheap sets , the ridiculously large plot holes , the iffy acting , and the rest of what gives this movie its charm that they don't know how to sit back , relax , and just enjoy it . Is Attack of the 50 Ft . Woman good ? Well , no , not in the traditional sense . But I've seen it at least a half a dozen times and it's never failed to entertain . If you enjoy campy 50s movies at all , this is one that's not to be missed . Still not convinced ? Attack of the 50 Ft . Woman also features 50s B-movie icon Allison Hayes in a bed sheet bikini . That's reason enough to tune in !
" Oh God , please let her die soon . Oh , let her die soon . And let me die soon too , please . "	Maybe I've seen too many of these cannibal films in a short amount of time , but in many respects , Cannibal Ferox seems like the same old thing I've already seen . I mean there are only so many alligators that you can watch being gutted before it gets a little repetitive . It's not that Cannibal Ferox is the worst example of this particular Italian sub-genre , it's just not overly original ? the same basic plot , similar music , and plenty of over-the-top bloodletting . I have nothing to back this up but I get the feeling that director Umberto Lenzi was trying to outdo Ruggero Deodato's Cannibal Holocaust . And in some respects , he succeeds . There are plenty of moments of outrageous violence , highlighted by the scene where one of the characters is hung by her breasts . Ugh ! This is only one of a couple of dozen scenes that had me feeling very uncomfortable . As a gory cannibal film , Cannibal Ferox is a winner , but violence is the only area where Lenzi's film approaches Deodato's film . I'm not sure how to express this or if it's even appropriate when discussing cannibal movies , but Cannibal Ferox lacks the artistry and beauty I find in Cannibal Holocaust . There is a sense of " style " missing from Cannibal Ferox .
A " new " Karloff film is always welcome	David Mallory is an inventor . Twenty years ago , he invented an alarm system that was so good his partner , Steven Ranger , stole his ideas and set-up his own security / alarm firm without compensating Mallory . Well , Mallory has now developed two new inventions . The first is an improvement on his old system ? an electronic beam that detects intruders . He intends to sell the improvement to Ranger . It ' s not until his old buddy does him wrong a second time that Mallory unveils his second new invention ? an electronic key that will allow anyone who uses it to bypass the Ranger security system . Mallory begins using it to set off alarms all over town as a joke to annoy Ranger . But when the local crime boss gets wind of Mallory's invention , he wants it ? and not for practical jokes . While Boris Karloff is always welcome in any movie he appeared in , the role of David Mallory could , in all honesty , have been played by just about anyone . The role did not require Karloff's unique talents and abilities . I suppose that's one of the things that bothers me the most about Night Key ? you have Karloff , why not use him to the fullest ? I understand that Universal owed Karloff a movie , but why make this ? Why not put him in something more in keeping with the image that Universal had already built up ? It doesn't make much sense to me . Overall , however , Night Key is an enjoyable little b-type picture . The film is nicely paced with rarely a lull to loss interest . Director Lloyd Corrigan does a solid job in that area . And the 68 minute runtime doesn't hurt either . The acting is good . Other than Karloff , I was impressed with Jean Rogers as his daughter and Hobart Cavanaugh as his less than reputable new friend . Though it's often predictable , the plot is nonetheless engaging . While I could have done without the subplot involving the relationship between Rogers ' characters and one of the Ranger security guards , I've got few complaints otherwise . Overall , Night Key is not a bad way to spend an evening .
Not as good as I had hoped	- I had heard such good things about Castle of the Walking Dead ( aka The Torture Chamber of Dr . Sadism ) that I've really been looking forward to seeing it . I was a little disappointed . The movie seemed to be little more than a series of interesting , but unrelated , ideas and scenes stuck together with a very flimsy plot . The castle scenes are basically one torture device after the other . Christopher Lee is underutilized . He plays a one-note character that highlights very little of his acting abilities . - One scene in particular points out many of the problems with the movie . As our unsuspecting heroes make their way to the castle , they must travel through a forest . This is no ordinary forest . The trees seem to have dead bodies actually growing out of their trunks and branches . Do they turn around and home like sensible people ? NO . Dead bodies in trees must be a common sight in their part of the world . - Regardless of what I've written so far , it's not as if I didn't find something to enjoy . The rating I gave the movie ( ) would indicate that . What I did find enjoyable were those very scenes that I've previously described as unrelated . Most are so over-the-top in their imaginative use of torture devices that I couldn't help but enjoy them . The scene of our hero tied helplessly as a ax blade pendulum slowly drops toward his body was truly an amazing sight . It's actually better than a similar scene in Corman's Pit and the Pendulum , a movie I actually enjoy .
A nice performance by Eddie Quillan	Josephine Temple ( Charlotte Henry ) arrives in New York with a very valuable stamp known as the Chinese Mandarin . Her intention is to sell the stamp to Dr . Alexander Kirk ( George Irving ) , a noted stamp collector . But before she can go through with the sale , the stamp is stolen and the thief is found dead in a locked room . The police , including Inspector Queen ( Wade Boteler ) , naturally suspect Miss Temple of having committed the murder . Fortunately for Miss Temple , however , the Inspector's son , Ellery Queen ( Eddie Quillan ) , has taken a liking to her and will prove she couldn't possibly be guilty . I can think of far worse ways to spend an hour than watching The Mandarin Mystery . I'm sure that movie fans more accustomed to modern , thrill-a-minute movies would find it all so dull and boring ( even I'll admit that at times it can be creaky ) , but it worked pretty well for me . The Mandarin Mystery is one of those mystery / comedies that seem to have been popular in the 30s . The mystery elements were interesting and even the comedy bits generally hit their mark . It wasn't uproariously funny or anything , but it was amusing . I've seen Eddie Quillan in a few other movies and he's honestly never impressed me much . He's seemed capable enough , but not really noteworthy . With The Mandarin Mystery , he makes the movie work . The on-screen relationship with Wade Boteler , who played his father , is very entertaining . Finally , I enjoyed the final reveal . I won't give it away other than to say it works .
Hit and Miss Columbo	- As you may , or may not , know , giving away the killer's identity in a Columbo movie is not a spoiler . You discover who the killer is ten minutes into the movie . In this episode , an aging star ( Anne Baxter ) feels like she's in a desperate situation . Her secretary for 18 years is leaving her to marry a reporter who has dirt on her . She's afraid that the secretary may reveal even more about her personal life . She does the only thing she can come up with to get out of the situation . She goes to the reporter's house and pours gasoline in the garage . Just as his car enter , she strikes a match and . . . well you get the picture . - I've seen a lot of Columbo's movies and this one has its strong points and its weak points . I really enjoyed the mystery in this one . There's really more to it than initially meets the eye . I found the story to be very engaging . It's definitely one of the deeper Columbo movies I've seen so far . In most of these movies , Columbo spots the killer right off the bat and hounds them until they crack . Because of the complexities of the case , Columbo picks the wrong suspect . It's a nice change of pace . - The weak points - Columbo himself . In a lot of these movies , you'll see Columbo gush over a suspect , but it's usually to get information . Here , he seems genuinely star-struck by Anne Baxter . That's not Columbo ! He's always under control and using everything to his advantage . Usually , every little movement he makes , no matter how insignificant it may seem , is all part of his grand scheme to catch the killer . Not here . We get to see Columbo act like a fool and for no real reason whatever .
" You can't fall out of a closed window ! "	While I enjoyed watching Dr . Renault's Secret , the movie has one serious flaw that keeps it from being a real winner . The problem with Dr . Renault's Secret is that there really isn't much of a secret . Anyone with half a brain would be hard pressed not to guess what's going on within the first ten minutes of the movie . I have a hard time believing that even the less jaded horror fans of 1942 would have been shocked by the revelations made toward the end of the film about Dr . Renault and his assistant , Noel . The movie all but beats you over the head with its supposed " secret " . But even with this flaw , there's still a lot to enjoy here for fans of classic horror . To start with , J . Carrol Naish gives one of those wonderful performances that I'll remember long after having watched the movie . He's awesome as the strange Noel . The way he changes his body language as the movie goes on and his more animalistic tendencies start to come out is perfect . George Zucco gives his usual nice performance even though his role is limited . The film also very nicely shot . Dr . Renault's Secret features some top-notch cinematography , set design , lighting , and everything else that goes into make a movie look " good " . It might have been a " B " film , but it doesn't look like it . Fox didn't make many horror films , but when they did , they did it right . One final note ? it's odd to me that the movie is supposed to be set in France . While I don't necessarily have a problem with some of the British and American actors in the movie , there's just no way Arthur Shields could have ever been a French police inspector . He's way too Irish to ever be anything but Irish .
A different kind of war movie	- Five Nazi commandos parachute into the Sahara and must make their way to Casablanca . Their mission : the assassination of Roosevelt , Chruchill , and Stalin . Along the way , the five face not only possible discovery by the British and American troops , but ( as they are dressed as British soldiers ) they also face the real possibility of being killed by German troops . - Before watching Desert Commandos , I had only seen some of Lenzi's thrillers - Seven Blood Stained Orchids being my favorite . Lenzi has always impressed me as a good story teller . Of his movies I've seen , all tend to use a straight ahead narrative style . Unlike many of his Italian peers who are criticized for being all style and no substance , I don't find that to be the case with Lenzi . - I enjoyed seeing a WWII drama told from such a different perspective . Because Lenzi presents the Nazi soldiers as normal guys who just happen to be fighting for the other side , it's easy to identify with their concerns and fears . The Nazis in Desert Commandos are more than the stern , no emotion robots as presented in most American war movies . As impossible as it seems , I actually found myself wanting to see these guys succeed . It makes for a very nice change of pace . - My biggest problem with the movie is the pacing during the first half . Almost all of the scenes consist of the soldiers stumbling through the desert . A little more action like run-ins with British or German soldiers might have made for a much better movie . But , once the commandos get near Casablanca , things pick up . The ending is really fantastic . - The copy of Desert Commandos I saw came on one of those double feature ( with something called Ransom Money ) $1 DVDs . While the transfer wasn't pristine , it's not bad for $1 . The transfer , however , was Pan and Scan . A lot of information was cut from the sides of all of the scenes . For example , if you just looked at the title page before the movie starts , you would think you were watching a movie called Desert ommando . The " C " and " s " were completely cut off the screen .
Disney Does Horror	Something happened 60 years ago at the Hollywood Tower Hotel ? something so bizarre and tragic that the doors were locked and the hotel closed . Five people stepped onto an elevator headed to the Tip Top Club on the 12th floor . Suddenly , a flash of green light and the elevator stopped . The five people on board the elevator were gone . They just vanished . Now , down-on-his-luck newspaper reporter Buzzy Crocker ( Steve Guttenberg ) has been given the chance to tell the story of a lifetime ? a chance to tell the world about what really happened to the people on board that doomed elevator . But to do so , he'll have to face the ghosts of the five souls that disappeared 60 years ago . I think that some of the criticism leveled against Tower of Terror is unfair and just plain ridiculous . For what it is ( a Disney horror movie ) , I quite enjoyed it . Sure , it doesn't have the same kind of scares or gore many horror fans look for , but it wasn't meant to . It was meant to be a movie aimed at families and children and , as such , I think it was reasonably successful . There are a couple of moments when the movie drags , but overall it's a well-paced , entertaining , harmless piece of entertainment . And , as much as it pains me , I must admit to enjoying the feel good ending . It worked for me . My biggest complaint would be the lack of originality . How many times have we seen this story played out ? A new twist on an old stand-by would have been nice . I suppose that another reason I enjoyed Tower of Terror might have something to do with the ride at the Disney Hollywood Studios in Orlando . And what a ride it is ! A 12 story free-fall that's never the same ride twice ! I love it ! At the beginning of the movie , I was amazed at how much the hotel in the movie looked like the ride . It didn't come as too big of a surprise to me to learn that the exteriors were actually filmed in the park . How cool is that ?
An unforgivable cheat	Going into a plot summary is a bit tricky with one of these Poirot mysteries . It's difficult to do so without giving away too much . It's hard to know where to stop . I'll just say that in typical Agatha Christie style , there is no shortage of suspects , everyone has a motive , and the victim was so nasty that he almost deserved what he got . Sound familiar ? If it weren't for one key incident in the movie , I would be happy extolling all of the positive aspects of Lord Edwige Dies . I'm sure I would mention the authentic looking sets ( at least , authentic to my untrained eye ) , the attention to detail , the acting , the score , and all of the other aspects that make each and every Poirot installment I've seen special . I'm also sure that I would go out of my way to mention Helen Grace who affected me much in the same manner she did Poirot . And , I'm sure there are other positives I would not doubt list . But , because of an unforgivable flaw , I cannot be positive while writing this . If you don't want to read possible SPOILERS , please skip the rest of this review . SPOILER WARNING Lord Edwige Dies contains one of the biggest cheats I've ever seen . The whole solution to the mystery revolves around Jane Wilkinson being in two places at the same time . It's not physically possible . So , in the solution to the mystery , we see that Jane asked a friend gifted in impersonations to " play " her at a dinner party as part of a joke . The other guests hardly know her so the actress should be able to pull it off . I'm okay with this , but the director commits an unforgivable cheat with the dinner party scene . The Jane Wilkinson we see as an audience at the dinner part is the real Jane Wilkinson . It's not the impostor . Trust me , I went back just to make sure . I cannot believe any director would have thought he could get away with something like this . END SPOILER
Y'all wanna Coke ?	- The Legend of Boggy Creek is the story of a creature alleged to live in the area near Fouke , Arkansas . The creature supposedly stands 7 feet tall , is covered with hair , smells bad , and kills chickens , dogs , cats , and other small animals . Although the creature has never killed a human , as the movie points out , several people claim to have been terrorized by the " Bigfoot of the South " in the 1960s . - I don't remember how old I was the first time I saw The Legend of Boggy Creek , but it scared me . Part of the reason is that it's based on a supposed true story . The people in the movie are the real people who claim to have seen the monster . I've actually known people like this and their stories ring true with me ( at least I believe that they believe what they're saying ) . As I've grown older , I realize that the story is probably a bunch of hooey , but the movie is still effective in raising the hairs on the back of my neck . Another plus for the movie is the low budget look it has . I realize that this is a bi-product of actually being made on a low budget , but the grainy look is often more effective in creating an atmosphere of horror than slick , well-financed productions can achieve . - And even if you don't find any of the legend spooky , there is enough to poke fun at to have a good time . Don't watch this movie if you're expecting Academy Award caliber acting . Most of the people in The Legend of Boggy Creek aren't actors . And those that actually are actors are about as believable as the Fouke Monster . A couple of songs in the movie are quite funny . For example , the main theme : " Here the Sulphur river flows / Rising when the storm cloud blows / This is where the creature goes / Lurking in the land he knows / Perhaps he dimly wonders why / Is there no other such as I / To love , to touch before I die / To listen to my lonely cry . " You don't hear lyrics like that everyday . One scene that always makes me laugh is the death of one of Fouke's felines . When was the last time you saw a cat that was " scared to death " as the ever-present narrator of The Legend of Boggy Creek claims . Good stuff !
I can't help but feel a bit disappointed	Maybe I get myself too worked up over a new Argento release because , once again , I'm somewhat disappointed . I wasn't expecting a return to the grand old days of Deep Red or Tenebre . I would have been satisfied with something along the lines of Sleepless . What I got with Do You Like Hitchcock ? was something just barely above average . Yeah , I know , it's a TV movie . So what ? Mediocre is mediocre . While there are some enjoyable moments in the film and instances where flashes of the old Argento shine through , these aspects of Do You Like Hitchcock ? are offset by some equally unenjoyable , uninspired moments in the film . The concept of a film that pays homage to Hitchcock is an interesting idea . For the most part , Argento and co-scriptwriter Franco Ferrini do an acceptable job of setting up tense and thrilling moments that would have made Hitchcock proud . The first kill scene is classic Argento . You know what's coming , but Argento drags it out and builds the tension until it's almost unbearable . Again , it's a classic Argento moment . Unfortunately , there are places where Do You Like Hitchcock ? drags . Despite Argento's best efforts , the scene where the protagonist is trying to make a getaway on his moped in the rain goes on and on far too long . You know the character is in no real danger at this point in the film , yet Argento seems to insist on dragging out this non-suspenseful sequence with no payoff . It's a real low point in the movie . The film's main Hitchcock inspirations are Rear Window and Strangers on a Train . And while Argento successfully plays the Strangers on a Train plot aspects , the Rear Window bits felt more like Argento paying homage to Brian De Palma paying homage to Hitchcock . The final scenes in Do You Like Hitchcock ? have much more in common with De Palma's Body Double than they do Hitchcock's Rear Window . Argento's films are known for their " look " . Bright , vivid colors dominate much of Argento's earlier , more successful work . And there are moments in Do You Like Hitchcock ? where you can see the Argento " look " . The night scenes feature a variety of colors and interesting angles and are a throwback to Argento's previous films . There is one scene in particular of a red staircase with a purple handrail and unique lighting that could have been from Suspiria . But the daytime scenes are just the opposite . In comparison with the nighttime scenes , those shot in the day are downright pedestrian . They look as if anyone with a camera could have filmed these scenes . There are a lot of aspects ( acting , special effects , score , etc . ) that I haven't even touched on , but I'll end this here anyway . Overall , I'm glad to have gotten the chance to see Do You Like Hitchcock ? And while I was reasonably entertained throughout , I can't help but feel disappointed . Those hoping for a return to Argento's glory days will most likely feel the same disappointment .
It left me wanting more	If you'll pardon the pun , the trouble with something like The Trouble with Harry Isn't Over is that there never seems to be enough . I appreciate these " making of " type features , but they always leave me wanting more . As much as I enjoyed the on camera interviews with star John Forsythe , producer Herbert Coleman , and Hitchcock's daughter Pat Hitchcock O'Connell , I can't help but wonder about some of the other people involved in the movie . Did they ask Shirley MacLaine to participate ? Or what about Jerry Mathers ? I would have loved to have heard from either of the two . I guess I should just be happy with what's here because the stories about the making of The Trouble with Harry from the people that were interviewed are entertaining and interesting . Listening to John Forsythe do his Hitchcock impression was a real treat . Another treat was learning about the box loads of Vermont leaves that Hitchcock had shipped to California to be used as set dressing . How cool is that ? So while I may have wanted more , what's here is mighty good .
" We are unquestionably on the brink of a great discovery . "	A second research team is sent to explore a remote island and discover what happened to the first research team that disappeared without a trace . The second team finds an island that is slowly being destroyed from within . But when they begin hearing the voices of some of their colleagues from the first research team , it seems that something extraordinary is at work on the little island . What strange mutations have the nearby atomic bomb tests brought to the island ? The answer comes soon enough when giant crabs are discovered that have a taste for human flesh . For a movie made on a budget of about what I would spend on a ham sandwich at lunch , Attack of the Crab Monsters is actually quite good . It's not great by any stretch of the imagination , but it is entertaining enough . Roger Corman does a whole lot with what seems to be so very little . And the most amazing part is how surprisingly effective the special effects are . The giant crabs look like . . . well , they look like giant crabs . Compared with some of the other creatures in these low budget movies from the 50s like Corman's own It Conquered the World , this seems to have been no small feat . The plot is interesting and held my attention to the very end . It wasn't until the last moments of the movie that I had any idea how the creatures were going to be defeated . Finally , while Russell Johnson of Gilligan's Island fame is the only name in the cast I recognized , the acting is at least adequate . Other than a couple of lame accents , no one is particularly bad . Overall , I think a is about right .
" This could be a tragic day for the people of New York . . . it could be the end of Spider-Man . "	As I sit here writing this , there are 1 , 783 user comments for Spider-Man 3 on IMDb . So what can I possibly have to say that would be new or different ? Well , probably nothing . But reading some of the posted comments , I have to laugh to myself . Why is it that people seem to feel the need to rate everything either a or a ? I don't get it . Is Spider-Man 3 worthy of a rating ? Is it really one of the worst movies ever made ? Is it as wretched as some of the truly notorious stinkers like Manos : Hands of Fate or Hobgoblins ? No . If you sincerely consider Spider-Man 3 one of the worst movies ever made , then you haven't seen enough movies . Likewise , is Spider-Man 3 worthy of a rating ? Is it really one of the best movies ever made ? Again , the answer is no . And once again , if you sincerely consider Spider-Man 3 one of the best movies ever made , then you haven't seen enough movies . Like I said , I just don't get it . Why the need for such extremes ? What's wrong with thinking something is merely average ? ( Okay , I'll get off the soapbox for the rest of this . ) For me , while I found Spider-Man 3 an entertaining enough time-waster , it's got far too many problems for me to call it great . I found the action sequences and special effects very well done . Watching Spidey take a pounding from the Sandman near the end of the movie was brutal . Also , I've never been wrapped up in the whole Spiderman comic book scene , so I didn't have a problem with Venom the way some others do . Thomas Hayden Church and Topher Grace were excellent in their baddie roles . Finally , Bruce Campbell's cameo as the French matre d ' was a scream . I loved it . But what didn't work so well for me was the plot . There's just too much going on in the movie and Sam Raimi tires too hard to wrap it all up in for a 2 hour movie . For example , with three bad guys to fight , did we really need the dull as dishwater subplot about Peter and MJ's on-again-off-again relationship ? But I suppose they had to include it to give Kirsten Dunst something to do . Finally , Tobey Maguire is really bad . There's no way he could have ever pulled off playing the tough guy . In the end , Spider-Man 3 is neither the worst movie I've seen nor is it the best . While I was generally entertained , the movie has too many problems for me to call it much more than slightly better than average . A seems about right .
" Man Lives Through Plutonium Blast "	During a plutonium bomb test , Lt . Col . Glenn Manning ( Glenn Langan ) finds himself in the open and absorbs much of the force of the blast . Even though 95 % of the skin on his body is burnt away , the bomb doesn't kill him . Doctors work tirelessly to keep him alive . Miraculously and in no time at all , not only is Manning out of danger , his body seems completely healed ? no burns and no scars . Surely the plutonium had something to do with Manning's recovery . But what other side effects does Manning face form his plutonium exposure ? As Manning begins a slow but steady growth to gargantuan proportions , the side effects become quite obvious . Bert I . Gordon made a lot of movies that can best be described as trash . I might have a good time with them , but I realize there not very good . That's not the case with The Amazing Colossal Man . I honestly think it's a decent enough movie . I realize that my judgment may be clouded by the fact that this is one of the very first movies I remember seeing . There's no accounting for nostalgia . And , I realize that today some of my enjoyment comes from scenes that fit the " so bad it's good " definition ( Manning's trip to Las Vegas and the giant hypodermic needle obviously come to mind ) , but there are other moments that work for me as intended . For example , I think Manning's descent in to madness is well done . Whatever the reason , I find more good , enjoyable moments in The Amazing Colossal Man than I do bad , dull moments and have no trouble rating the movie a . But please , don't take my rating as some sort of recommendation . There are too many problems that even I can see for me to tout The Amazing Colossal Man as a " must see " . If you decide to give it chance , don't blame me if you don't immediately move it into your top ten . To begin with , the special effects are weak ? not only by today's standards , but by the standards of 1957 . The rear projection scenes are quite badly done . In addition , some of the acting is just as bad as the special effects . Other than Langan , no one in the cast comes out looking very good . Finally , the movie is full of padding . The Amazing Colossal Man may only be 80 minutes in length , but a good part of the runtime is taken by Dr . Linstrom ( William Hudson ) spouting scientific theories at any given opportunity . My favorite is the " single cell " heart theory . And to make the padding even more obvious , he repeats the same scientific mumbo-jumbo on more than one occasion .
" I can be framed easier than ' Whistler's Mother ' . "	The Dark Corner is the story of a P . I . framed for the murder of his ex-partner . Not only does he appear to have had the opportunity to commit the crime , he also has a very good motive . The partner was responsible for the P . I . ' s two-year stay in prison . But who's the real murderer ? With the help of his plucky girlfriend , the P . I . has to get to the bottom of this case before the police find the dead body and send him back to prison . I've seen several wonderful noirs lately that have become " new " favorites , but I can't include The Dark Corner on this list . It's good , but it's just not great . Much of the blame has to be put on the P . I . as played by Mark Stevens . He is one of the most un-charismatic characters of this type I've seen . For the movie to work , you have to care about his plight and I just couldn't feel anything for him . If it weren't for his secretary / girlfriend , I doubt he would have ever been able to clear himself . He's just doesn't seem that bright or ambitious enough to pull it off on his own . I'm not that familiar with him , but if this is the way Stevens played characters in his other films , it's no wonder he never became a big star . The rest of the cast is generally good with a real standout performance from Lucille Ball ( yes , the same Lucy who would go on to eat chocolate off a conveyor belt and stomp grapes with her bare feet ) . I had no idea Lucy could " play it straight " . She's wonderful . I'll have to track down some of her other early film roles . Other cast members include William Bendix as a big bruising heavy and Clifton Webb basically reprising his role from Laura . But as good as each of these actors are , they never felt like more than actors . The roles were too stereotypical to be as believable as I would have preferred . One of the highlights for me is the feel and look of The Dark Corner . The film has a dark , gritty feel to it that adds to the characters ' desperation . Lighting and cinematography are more than adequate . Director Henry Hathaway has given The Dark Corner a mood and atmosphere second to none . And , as a bonus , The Dark Corner includes some wonderful on-location shots of New York City in the 40s . Forget about studio sets when you can film in the real thing .
Where's the ending ?	- A defrocked priest sets up his own religious order . From the outside , it looks as if his " church " is based on Catholicism - complete with nuns . In reality , it's a Satanic cult . The time is growing near for one of the nuns to endure a ritual that will , in essence , turn her into Satan . Her father objects , even though he had entered into an agreement 18 years previous . It's up to an author and expert on the occult to save the girl's life . - This was the one Hammer film that I had wanted to see the most of those I hadn't already seen . And , for the most part , I enjoyed it . It may be slow moving , but it builds tension very nicely . Other than his performance in Rasputin : The Mad Monk , this may be Christopher Lee's finest hour as an actor . I loved his reaction immediately following the incredibly bloody birth scene . The camera slowly pans the faces of the other in attendance and you see the shock and revulsion clearly on their faces . But , as the camera moves to Lee's face , you see an equally shocking sight ? a smile from ear to ear . - But my enjoyment of To the Devil a Daughter was quickly dampened by the ending . I can take a weak ending or even an ending that doesn't really make much sense . What I can't take , however , is a movie without an ending . To the Devil a Daughter literally has no ending . Apparently a thrown rock is all it takes to dispatch Satan's most loyal disciple . It left me very unsatisfied . To have spent almost 90 minutes building up to what should have been a very dramatic moment and to deliver absolutely nothing is unforgivable .
Certainly not Walker's best , but still very enjoyable	It has taken me a while to become a Pete Walker fan , but you can officially include me in the club . The Comeback may be one of his weakest films that I've thus far seen , but it's still a solid little thriller with a few great moments along the way . For example , Walker handles the first murder scene quite well . The murderer comes out of nowhere to commit an incredibly brutal and violent act against his victim . Walker is able to catch a real sense of malice and hatred on the part of the killer ? something quite nice when compared with the usual unemotional serial killer . Another real plus for The Comeback is the presence of Walker regular Shelia Keith . She may not have as much to do here as in something like House of Whipcord or Frightmare , but she's incredible in the scenes she does have . The woman could chew scenery with the best of them . She has an air about her that works in Walker's films . The creepy old house , the elevator scenes , and Walker's use of red herrings are also among my favorite bits of the movie . But , as my rating would indicate , it's not all good . My biggest problem is the casting of Jack Jones in the lead . He's dull and unappealing . He can't carry most of the scenes he appears in let alone the entire movie . During the film , I began to dub him " The Anti-Shelia Keith " as he lacks anything approaching the screen presence of scene-stealing Keith . My other big problem is with David Doyle as Jones ' manager . As is evident even in his performances on Charlie's Angels , Doyle cannot play " serious " believably at all . He comes across as far too goofy to add the required gravity to a given scene . He's just bad . If you're a fan of Pete Walker and enjoy his work with Shelia Keith , you should be able to find something enjoyable in The Comeback . If you're new to Walker , I would suggest starting with another of his films .
" Pop , I've got a case that will knock your hat off ! "	A man is shot in a locked room . The police are completely stumped and cannot solve the case . When a book is written that insinuates the wife was the murderer , the man's stepdaughter enlists the help of Charlie Chan to find the real killer . Chan is only in town for 48 hours , so he's got to be quick if he's to solve a six-month old murder . The Chinese Cat is one of the better of the Monogram Chan films . Sure , it's far from perfect , but I enjoy it each time I get the opportunity to watch . It's always fun to watch Chan investigate a crime scene while spitting out a few of the Chan style proverbs . Mantan Moreland is back as Birminham Brown and he has more than a few moments that bring at least a smile to my face . A few other things The Chinese Cat has in its favor include : a well paced plot , some trickery involving twins , and the fact that Number 3 son isn't as annoying as he is in some of the other Chan films . While I doubt the average movie fan would enjoy The Chinese Cat very much , fans of Chan will find something to enjoy . But , as with the other Monogram films , there are problems in The Chinese Cat that are hard to overlook . Monogram made these films with very little in the way of a budget and it shows . The sets look cheap , some of the acting is stilted , and action scenes have taken the place of Chan questioning suspects . The Fun House scenes are the perfect example of the budgetary limitations as characters walk past the same three sets over and over and over . . .
" Suddenly I have a refreshing mint flavor . "	I readily admit it ? I'm an unabashed MST3K fan . The concept may be simple , but it's given me hours of entertainment over the years . While I don't necessarily think some of the movies featured on MST3K deserved to be on the show , some episodes are laugh-out-loud funny ( MST3K's treatment of Mitchell immediately comes to mind ) . So I was one of those excited about the prospects of a movie based on the television show . But , honestly , I find Mystery Science Theater 3000 : The Movie disappointing . Sure , there are a few good laughs to be had , but overall , it cannot compare with the best of the MST3K episodes . What went wrong ? As I indicated previously , I don't think some of the films used on MST3K deserved to be there . This Island Earth is one of those films . It's a solid 50s sci-fi film that I would rate a on its own . I would have thought that for Mystery Science Theater 3000 : The Movie , the producers would have selected something much worse than this . And why cut This Island Earth ? Here again the producers picked the wrong movie . If they were going to turn a 90 minute television show ( without commercials ) into a 73 minute movie , why pick This Island Earth and its 87 minute runtime ? There are plenty of really bad movie with a runtime of right at an hour . Finally , Mystery Science Theater 3000 : The Movie lacks to flow found in the television show . I've read that the director slowed down the pace of the movie riffing so theater audiences wouldn't miss anything while laughing . It's this rapid-fire pacing of some of the better MST3K episodes that made it funny .
" You're so dumb you wouldn't know rabbit turds from Rice Krispies . "	Realistically , I can see the same problems in The Giant Spider Invasion as most anyone else . But what I see in the movie that some people appear to be missing is a whole lot of fun . A VW Beatle doubling as a giant spider , spider puppets jumping out of dresser drawers , Wisconsin rednecks with buckets of diamonds , Alan Hale Jr's take on being a sheriff , Barbara Hale and Steve Brodie spouting some incredibly ridiculous scientific nonsense , mutilated cattle , pantsuits , and a farmer wearing a girdle ? what's not to like ? Some people ( and I'm often guilty of this ) take movies too seriously . I mean if you have fun with it and find yourself entertained , what more do you really expect from a movie ? Call it a guilty pleasure of mine or a sentimental remembrance of my youth , but I'm rating this one a . Alan Hale , Jr . really cracks me up in The Giant Spider Invasion . For starters , the first line he utters is to call someone " Little Buddy " . How original ? Next , his character is never at a loss for a bad joke . Whether it's a concerned citizen on the phone , cutting up with a bartender , or discussing the grave situation his town faces , he's full of lame one-liners . Where else are you going to hear someone say , " I used to take physics , but I find prunes do a better job for me " to a NASA scientist ? Finally , and as I alluded to earlier , I like Hale's take on being a sheriff . The Giant Spider Invasion would have you believe that sheriffs in Middle-of-Nowhere , Wisconsin , spend their days either sitting at their desks or eating in a local diner regardless of the carnage and destruction going on around them . Hale seems particular suited for the job !
" A bird-colonel out-ranks a bird-brain , clear ? "	Von Ryan's Expess is an enjoyable enough WWII escape film , but it's far from perfect . The plot is simple and straightforward ? a band of allied POWs , led by Colonel Joseph L . Ryan ( Frank Sinatra ) , take over a German prisoner train and use it to find freedom in Switzerland . While the plot may be far-fetched , it makes for an interesting idea for a movie . The acting is good , but I don't think this is Sinatra's best moment . Regardless of what others have said , I'm of the opinion that almost anyone could have played the part of Colonel Ryan ? and probably played it better . The real star to me is Trevor Howard . He steals every scene in which he appears . Locations , sets , and the use of a real train give the film a fairly authentic feel . The scenes filmed in the mountains are particularly impressive . But , as I stated , Von Ryan's Express is not perfect . Beyond the problems I have with the story's absurdity and Sinatra's acting , the movie runs on far too long . Tighter editing , particularly early on in the film , might have made for a better film . There really isn't much going on before the escape gets underway that couldn't have been edited by about 15 minutes . Also , some of the action sequences are far from realistic . There are too many scenes where the German soldiers fall like dominoes while being completely unable to hit anything with their guns . It just looks silly . In the end , even with the shortcomings , Von Ryan's Express is an entertaining movie . But it's those shortcomings that keep me from rating it any higher .
It could have been so much better	Thomas Crown ( Steve McQueen ) is a wealthy man . Wealthy ? yes . Satisfied with life ? no . He needs some excitement in his life . He needs a challenge . Crown concocts a plan to rob a local Boston bank . He hires five men who know nothing of each other to carry out his scheme . Things go just as Crown planned ? Crown has the money , no one was caught , and the police are completely baffled . The perfect crime ! But Crown wasn't counting on the ruthless , hard-nosed insurance investigator ( Faye Dunaway ) sent to find the daring bank robbers . And Crown certainly wasn't expecting the insurance investigator to be so beautiful . The Thomas Crown Affair starts off with a bang . The film opens with an intelligent , well-planned , and cleverly written bank heist . Unfortunately , the bank heist only takes 20 minutes of the film's runtime . The 60s were full of these ingenious crime / caper / heist films and had the remainder of The Thomas Crown Affair lived-up to the promise of the first act , it might have been one of the better examples of the crime / caper / heist film ever made . But things fall apart shortly after Dunaway makes her appearance . She's neither very believable in her role nor do she and McQueen have any on screen chemistry . I will admit that the first meeting between McQueen and Dunaway was interesting , but their cat and mouse game soon gets very tiring . Their scenes together feel forced and unnatural . Many of the reviews on The Thomas Crown Affair highlight " the chess scene " and go so far as to call it " sexy " . If by " sexy " they mean too long , too drawn out , and too dull , then I guess it's " sexy " . Director Norman Jewison seems intent on using every single ridiculous camera trick at his disposal . Split-screens , gel lenses , and psychedelic colors are only a few examples of what Jewison has up his sleeve . Here's an idea ? just tell your story . The camera tricks do nothing but help to destroy whatever flow and pacing the film might have had . A few of these techniques is okay , too many becomes distracting . Other than the opening 20 minute heist scene , the only other real highlight is the film's final twist as Crown pulls the wool over the eyes of the insurance investigator . It's a nice ending for The Thomas Crown Affair and helps to make up for some of what came before . And fortunately for us , it's a signal that we will no longer be subjected to the terrible on screen pairing of McQueen and Dunaway .
Not a bad way to spend 90 minutes	I'm not a huge fan of martial arts movies , but I'm trying . Sure , I enjoy Bruce Lee and some of the Sonny Chiba films I've seen , but beyond that , I've always thought of martial arts movies ( and this is especially true of the movies from the 70s ) as a bunch of faceless , nameless people repeating the same moves in endless fight scenes . And while there's some of that in Return of the Tiger , I've decided I may need to rethink my opinion . Overall , I enjoyed Return of the Tiger much more than I thought I would . It's far from perfect and the movie does drag a bit during some of the longer fight sequences , but for the most part , I was entertained throughout . Bruce Li and Angela Mao make an interesting and appealing pair . The bad guys are appropriately bad . Add in a few funny moments , awesome title music , and an ending with plenty of fists and feet and it's not a bad way to spend 90 minutes . Unfortunately , the copy of the movie I had available to me seemed to be heavily cut . The plot ( at least what I got out of it ) centers on Chang Wong ( Bruce Li ) , a man playing both sides of a feud between two criminal bosses . His plan seems to be to force both bosses ' hands so he can make his final move . Along the way , he and his female assistant will have to do battle with an army of trained fighters . I'm confident that an uncut copy of Return of the Tiger would improve my opinion and rating . Finally , what impressed me the most in Return of the Tiger was Bruce Li . I admit it ? this is the first time I've seen one of his movies . I guess I unfairly thought of him as a Bruce Lee wannabe and dismissed him without giving him or his movies a chance . I realize now that the name and image were part of a producer's marketing ploy to cash in on the fame of Lee and not necessarily Li's doing . He's got a definite screen presence that I found appealing . I'll have to seek out some of his others movies .
Frogs , Turtles , and Lizards - Oh my !	Frogs should be classified in that ' large ' horror subgenre known as Environmentalist , Anti-Pollution Horror . It's the story of nature getting back at us humans for the pollution we've dumped . The story is set on an island owned by a very wealthy , poison-spraying anti-environmentalist , Jason Crockett ( Ray Milland ) . His family has gathered for the traditional 4th of July celebration and birthday party . But , unbeknownst to the family , the animals are planning their revenge . The swamp creatures ( apparently on orders from the frogs ) take turns killing the family one at a time . My first reaction : I found it to be a fun , entertaining movie if you DO NOT take it seriously . I usually hate the word ' cheesy ' when used to describe a movie , but it's the best word I can think of to describe Frogs . Milland is great as the grumpy old rich man . He dominates every scene he's in . Sam Elliot and Joan Van Ark are the other two stars / heroes most would recognize . And they do their best to make believable the unbelievable horror facing them . One of the fun parts of the movie is trying to guess which creature will get the next turn at a human victim . And , how they will actually be able to carry out the killings . Will it be the snakes , the spiders , the lizards , the alligators , or the turtles ? Yes , even the turtles get a turn in one of the most contrived death scenes ever filmed . Of course , the creatures are helped by the members of the family who seem intent on going one at a time into the woods . Their impending deaths are telegraphed from a mile away . I can't in all honesty and in good conscious give this one a very high rating . I'll say a for that funky , cheese filled 70s feel that Frogs has .
I don't understand all the hate directed at this movie	I'm shocked by all the negative reviews I've read on Angel of Death now that I've seen it . My rating of a almost makes me look like a fanboy in comparison with what most people seem to think about Angel of Death . It may not be the best movie ever made , but it's certainly better than the garbage others seem to be labeling it . Take the criticisms I've seen leveled against Mira Sorvino . The charge ? Sorvino sleepwalks through her performance . What these people call sleepwalking I tend to view as a nice , understated performance that works for me . It's like the old adage ? one man's trash is another man's treasure . The plot centers on a series of brutal murders being committed during the Spanish Holy Week celebrations in Seville by a red-hooded monk . Through their investigations , Sorvino and her compatriots discover a back-story of rape and greed dating back to the time of the Spanish Civil War . Sorvino must find the killer before she becomes the latest victims . This plot is , perhaps , the movies weakest point . It's interesting enough , but it's far too involved to completely explore in a roughly 90 minute movie . There are a few subplots that go nowhere and much is left to the viewer to figure out . In many respects , Angel of Death seems to be an attempt to revive or at least revisit the European or Giallo thrillers of the past . A black-gloved hooded killer , a convoluted plot , beautiful cinematography , and violent death scenes all hearken to the glory days of the Euro-thriller . It's a shame this movie wasn't more well received because I would have enjoyed seeing more of this kind of film .
A talky , but enjoyable little B & W sci-fi thriller	A strange orb is found in the outskirts of London . The orb is soon determined to be a matter transference device sent to Earth from one of Jupiter's moons . It seems this alien civilization is bent on sending one of their own to Earth , but for what purpose ? When a string of 20 + young women goes missing , the orbs monstrous purpose becomes much clearer . Night Caller from Outer Space is a rather talky , but enjoyable little B & W sci-fi thriller . Highlights for me include the mystery elements of the story from the first  of the film's runtime , seeing John Saxon in such a decidedly British production , the unknown creature lurking in the shadows , and some outstanding cinematography ( in fact , the film looks far better than it has any right to given it's obviously modest budget ) . The biggest weakness , unfortunately , comes in the final moments of the movie . The ending of Night Caller from Outer Space is such a let-down and non-event that it really takes away from everything that came before . As the movie ended , I sat in amazement and said to myself , " That's it ? You've got to be kidding . " It's a very lame payoff . Night Caller from Outer Space deserved better than that . Finally , Night Caller from Outer Space includes some really cool period shots of London at night from the mid-60s . I always get a kick out of that sort of thing .
Is this the goriest Western ever ?	- A group of soldiers is transporting seven prisoners in a wagon through the snow to a new prison . After an attack by a band of hijackers , most of the soldiers are dead and the wagon is destroyed . The only survivors - one soldier , his daughter , and seven murderous prisoners . Can the lone soldier get the prisoners to their destination on is own ? - I do not claim to be a Euro-Western ( I don't know if I can call it a Spaghetti Western as it is a Spanish film ) expert , but Cut-Throats Nine is the most violent , bloodiest , and most sadistic Euro-Western I've seen . The brutality and gore on display feel more like a horror movie . You've got bodies thrown in a fire , up-close shootings to the face , rape , and a stabbing that seems to pull the whole intestine out . Fulci would be proud . - Combine the brutality and violence with the desolate , snowy setting , and it creates a very bleak movie . There's very little to be happy about . The ending fits perfectly with the mood of the rest of the film . It's like a visualization of despair on screen . Powerful stuff .
" You two are going to Farro Island and find me a genuine monster whether he exists or not ! "	Godzilla has escaped his icy prison and is making a beeline for Japan . No one seems to be capable of stopping his progress . In comes an enterprising businessman , Mr . Tako , who has heard rumors of a large monster on a nearby island . His plan is to have a couple of his men go to the island to get this giant beast and use it against Godzilla . The two men find the Farro Island and King Kong . Can Kong stop Godzilla , or will he also become a threat to Japan much like Godzilla ? Please note that my rating is based on the American version of the film . I would really like to see the original Japanese version and may seek it out . From what I've read , the American version cuts a lot of the comedy , especially from Mr . Tako , and inserts the U . N . television reports . Mr . Tako is the highlight of the movie for me , and more Mr . Tako would seem to only make things better . He's hilarious . The U . N . news reports are totally unnecessary . The announcers do little other than describe the upcoming action which the viewer is about to see . There's no real point in much of it . Growing up in the late 60s / early 70s , King Kong vs . Godzilla was standard afternoon television viewing on one of the local channels . I seem to remember it playing a few times each year . And each time I couldn't wait to get home from school to see these two behemoths square off . While I no longer find the final fight scene the most enjoyable part of the movie , it's still one of the best encounters Toho filmed . But the fight scene no longer works for me the way it once did and I no longer consider King Kong vs . Godzilla the best film Toho ever made ( for the record , I now go with either Matanga or Rodan ) .
Goofy fun	Worried about their father who hasn't checked-in in over a week , Frank and Joe Hardy ( Parker Stevenson and Shaun Cassidy ) look for clues in the last European village he was known to have been in . The boys soon discover that their father was on the trail of a gang of art thieves who appear to be using the movements of the rock singer Allison Troy as cover . They also discover a young woman named Nancy Drew who is looking for their father . The next step seems obvious ? follow Allison Troy to the next gig . But Allison Troy just happens to be headed to a rock festival in , of all places , Dracula's castle . Has Dracula returned and is he responsible for Mr . Hardy's disappearance ? And what does Dracula have to do with missing artwork ? It's up to our intrepid threesome of amateur detectives to find out . Yeah , the whole thing really is as silly as it sounds . The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew stumbling around secret passages in the bowels of Dracula's castle while a multi-day rock concert is going on above is without a doubt one of the more ridiculous ideas I've ever been asked to swallow . But even more ridiculous is Paul Williams as supposed rock god , Allison Troy . Sorry , I'll buy the Dracula story before I will Little Enos as a rock star . And it's not like there's much of a mystery surrounding the stolen paintings and the legend of Dracula . I spotted " Dracula " as soon as he came on screen . In all honesty , it's not very good . Wait a minute ? I admit The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew Meet Dracula isn't very good , yet I've rated it a ? What gives ? Well , there's no accounting for sentimental value in these things . While I can't remember this specific episode , The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries was one of my favorite television shows in 1977 . And the goofy charm in every one of the episodes still appeals to me . The show may not work for everyone , but it has always worked for me .
Sid steals the show	- A WIP film with Pam Grier and Sid Haig with Jack Hill directing ? what could go wrong ? The Big Doll House is not as over-the-top as it might have been . In fact , a lot of what happens is fairly tame for a WIP . The torture scenes aren't as graphic as you might expect . The fight scenes aren't as brutal as you would hope for . And some of the acting is terrible . Pam Grier may be one of my favorite actresses of all time , but it's easy to see that this was one of her first movies . There's a big difference between Pam Grier in The Big Doll House and Pam Grier in Jackie Brown . - So why rate it a and not lower . Regardless of its problems and shortcomings , it's still an enjoyable movie . There's a lot of really fun 70s cheese on display . And Sid Haig is magnificent . Every scene he's in is a highlight of the movie . Watching Sid run through the woods in his tighty-whitey's had me laughing out loud .
Joe and Frank go to Egypt	On their way to meet their dad , Frank and Joe Hardy ( Parker Stevenson and Shaun Cassidy ) stop off in Egypt for a little sight-seeing . Before you know it , the boys are mixed up in stolen antiquities and a pretty American girl who has been kidnapped . Can the boys put the pieces together to solve The Mystery of King Tut's Tomb ? More importantly , can they clear their own names and get their passports from the local police ? I admit , The Mystery of King Tut's Tomb isn't earth shattering in its originality , but I had a good time re-watching it for the first time in about 30 years . To begin with , the mystery elements are reasonably good . It's a fairly complicated story ( okay , complicated for a Hardy Boys mystery ? it's all relative ) that takes a bit of time to unfold . And secondly , who doesn't enjoy a bit of mysterious ancient Egypt mixed into a mystery ? I'm a sucker for this kind of stuff . My biggest complaint has more to do with the start of Season 2 than it does this particular episode . First it was Transylvania and Dracula ? now it's Egypt and King Tut . What happened to the more homegrown believable mysteries ? Were the producers that desperate for ratings ? While I don't necessarily think any of the first three episodes in Season 2 are particularly bad , none can compete with the majority of episodes from Season 1 .
If you can't beat ' em , join ' em .	If you can't beat ' em , join ' em . That would seem to be part of the thinking behind 100 Rifles . By the late 60s , the traditional American Western had been replaced by the Euro or Spaghetti Western with more emphasis on violence and blurred lines between bad and good . 100 Rifles was filmed in Spain and has that same raw , dirty look to it that most of the Westerns coming out of Europe had at the time . The biggest difference is that 100 Rifles is an American production . The film features an interesting storyline and several good action sequences with a couple of train shootouts being the highlight of the film for me . A lot of the action may seem over-the-top , but that's the way I like my Spaghetti Westerns . 100 Rifles actually has four main characters played by Jim Brown , Burt Reynolds , Raquel Welch , and Fernando Lamas . Brown is by far the weakest of the four . To describe his acting as wooden would be an insult to trees everywhere . He's simply out of his league with the rest of the cast . Reynolds is surprisingly good as the half-breed Yaqui Joe Herrera . At first , he may seem to be little more than a mischievous drunken outlaw , but there's a definite intelligence behind the hyena like laugh . Besides being one of the most beautiful women who ever walked the planet , Welch throws herself into her role and is reasonably convincing . But Lamas is the real standout . His General Verdugo is a marvelous character more obsessed with personal revenge than in doing what is necessary to beat his enemies . Other than Brown , it's a solid cast . While the story is good , if not predictable for this kind of movie , it runs on a little too long . Cutting about 20 minutes out of the film's 110 minute runtime and making it tighter would have gone a long way to making 100 Rifles a much better movie . One of the biggest draws of this film upon its initial release was the scandalous love scene between Welch and Brown . It has so little bearing on the plot that cutting it out would have been a good place to start with the editing scissors .
If you can get past the spotty acting and the less than stellar production values , you'll discover an interesting early slasher .	Violent Midnight ( Psychomania ) is a nice little film in the Psycho tradition that , for the most part , manages to overcome the handicap of a very limited budget . If you can get past the spotty acting and the less than stellar production values , you'll discover an interesting early slasher . The script is far smarter than many films of this type . Violent Midnight actually manages to have the police believably cast their suspicion on two different characters at the same time that the viewer knows to be innocent . Lesser scripts struggle to generate enough credible evidence and circumstances to suggest one person , let alone two , is a believable suspect . And when the killer is finally revealed , you could have knocked me over with a feather . I would have never guessed the outcome . In some ways Violent Midnight was ahead of its time . Today's audiences might find it incredibly tame , but I would guess that 1964 audiences found the sex and violence in Violent Midnight shocking . Personally , I was amazed at how effective and provocative some of the racier scenes were . As for the violence , though nothing explicit is shown as in the Psycho tradition , there's a fair amount of blood for this type of film . Finally , I got a real kick out of the cast . My favorite cast member has to be the relatively soft and sometimes goofy Dick Van Patten in the role of the tough , no nonsense cop . Talk about working against stereotype ! And to my surprise , he pulls it off . He's easily the best " actor " in the bunch .
" I've never seen a guy with more angles . "	Bowery at Midnight is quite the ambitious little Poverty Row thriller . It's has enough plot threads for three movies . Bela Lugosi plays a man living a double ( or should that be triple ) life . As one of the characters says to Lugosi , " I've never seen a guy with more angles . " By day , he's a college psychology professor . By night , he runs a soup kitchen that he uses as a base to recruit criminals into his organization . You see , he's got a thing for knocking over jewelry stores . If that weren't enough , he has an old , washed-up doctor in the basement who , unbeknownst to Lugosi , is doing experiments on reanimating dead bodies . With all of this going on , there are really very few dull moments in the movie's short runtime . I suppose that's also part of the movie's biggest problem ? there are too many loose ends and too many plot threads that go nowhere . For example , why and how is the Doc creating the zombies ? And how is the process seemingly reversed at the end of the movie ? It's probably best not to think too much about it and just enjoy the movie for what it is . Lugosi actually looks like he's having the time of his life . The smile on his face in many of the scenes looks genuine . And why not ? For a Monogram film , Bowery at Midnight is about as good as they come .
Pale imitation of Casablanca	I was going to begin with a detailed plot description of Sirocco , but what's the point ? Sirocco has essentially the same plot as Casablanca . Change settings to Syria from Morocco , put Marta Toren in the role of Ingrid Bergman ( Toren was actually billed as " The Next Ingrid Bergman " ) , exchange Lee J . Cobb's Col . Feroud for Conrad Veidt's Maj . Strasser , and throw in a few other similar characters and almost identical plot points and you've got two very similar movies . The problem with the comparison , though , comes at the end of the film . Although Casablanca is the far superior film in most every way , the final scenes really drive home just how inferior Sirocco really is . In both films , Bogart must decide between being selfish or doing " what's right " . The difference , however , is that in Casablanca there is a good , justifiable reason for his actions . As heartbreaking as his final act is , I can understand why he made that decision . In Sirocco , on the other hand , the decision to do " what's right " seems totally out of character with everything leading up to that point . There is no valid , justifiable reason for Bogart's actions . There is no sound reasoning given for his sudden change of heart and it therefore feels forced to make Bogart look like a good guy before the end of the film . It just doesn't work . The highlight of Sirocco for me is Marta Toren . She made even the most mundane of scenes seem elegant and worth watching . While she may have been " The Next Ingrid Bergman " , personally I saw a lot of Audrey Hepburn in her . It's a shame that Toren's career was cut short by her untimely death in 1957 . I , for one , would have liked to see what she would have done with a more complete filmography .
" OK , I have an idea . We draw straws and the loser runs across the lot with a ham sandwich . "	I actually enjoyed Dawn of the Dead more than I thought I would . Not being the biggest fan in the world of the original , I found very little appealing about the thought of watching a remake . While my rating certainly doesn't indicate I thought it was a masterpiece , as a mindless action film , there's plenty to enjoy . Mindless ? Shooting zombie after zombie in the head isn't what I would call thought provoking . But the scenes like the one in the sewers where our heroes are being chased by zombies sure is a lot of fun . However , as a horror movie , Dawn of the Dead is a failure . There appears to have been no attempt to create any atmosphere . Other than the scene in the parking garage , I never go that uneasy feeling horror usually produces . The horror that is there is too obvious and lacks subtlety that I find necessary for it to be really effective . Also , as there isn't really much of an attempt to flesh out the characters , it's difficult to care about the predicament they find themselves in . I've read any number of internet posts on what seems to be an endless debate about fast zombies vs . slow zombies . I actually see advantages and disadvantages to both . I find a slow moving zombie lurking in the shadows to be a far more frightening visage than the Carl Lewis style zombie . On the other hand , the fast moving zombies seem to present more of threat and work better in action sequences . Push come to shove , I suppose I would come down on the side of the slow zombies . The undead in Romero's Night of the Living Dead or Fulci's Zombi 2 work better for me because of their inherent creepiness .
The last is fantastic	- A series of murders of young women have the townspeople believing that a centuries old killer , Baron Von Klaus , has returned from the dead . Many of the locals claim to have seen his shadowy figure rising from the nearby swamp . Is it really the dead Baron come back to claim more victims or is it one of his descendants ? - The biggest reason I don't rate this movie any higher is that I found the first of the movie to be incredibly boring . There's little suspense , little action , and little drama . I generally don't mind a slow moving movie as long as there is plenty of atmosphere and a sense of dread . But , Franco doesn't seem to be one of those directors who excels at atmosphere . Usually , he doesn't seem patient enough , but here he just seems to have no idea of how to do it . - The final fourth of this movie , however , is quite well done . The ritualistic murder is both frightful and erotic at the same time . And there is some real suspense in the chase scene leading up to the murderer's capture . - The more Franco movies I see , the more I'm growing to enjoy his choice of music . The snappy jazz scores are now one of the things I look forward to .
A weak , but still enjoyable Chan film	Traveling from Monte Carlo to Nice , Charlie Chan and No . 1 son Lee discover and abandoned car . Inside the car , they find the dead body of a bank messenger who was transporting $1 million in bonds belonging to a wealthy industrialist named Victor Karnoff . There are not shortage of suspects : Paul Savarin ? Karnoff's business rival ; Joan Karnoff ? Victor's wife who was being blackmailed ; Al Rogers ? a shady bartender ; Evelyn Gray ? a woman living above her means ; or Karnoff himself for the insurance money . It's up to Charlie Chan to discover the truth . Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo would be Warner Oland's last performance as the venerable detective . Unfortunately , it's one of the weakest Chan films Oland would make . It's not his fault ? instead the blame can be placed on a weak script and a couple of other factors . Chan films notoriously cheat the viewer in that the solution to the mystery too often relies on facts not available to the audience . Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo is especially guilty of this . Key clues that help trap the killer are known only to Chan and the French Police Inspector . As for the other factors I mentioned , one of these would be Harold Huber . Huber , who appeared in two other Chan films , really lays it on thick here with his over-the-top acting and ridiculous French accent . It gets annoying rather quickly . Still , this is Charlie Chan I'm talking about so it's not all bad . In fact , even a weak Chan film is still an enjoyable experience . It's just a shame that Oland couldn't have gone out on a higher note .
Bela may be good , but the rest of the cast isn't	While at first glance Dr . Mirakle ( Bela Lugosi ) appears to be like many of the other sideshow charlatans , there's something very sinister about the man . It seems that he has been experimenting with the relationship between human and ape blood to prove their mutual lineage . But his experiments require a healthy human body with which to inject gorilla blood . And Dr . Mirakle will stop at nothing to get " volunteers " to assist him with his work . What Works : - Bela . I don't care how bad or dull the material , Bela Lugosi always appears to be having the time of his life and is somehow able to transmit that feeling to the viewer . It's difficult to watch one of his performances and not be drawn to the man . His Dr . Mirakle is another in the long line of characters given life by Bela . He is just so devilishly demented that it's impossible not to enjoy the character or the actor playing the character . Good job , Bela . - Cinematography . I've made no secret over the years of my fondness for Karl Freund . Many of the movies where he credited for the cinematography ( or directed ) are among my favorites . His work on Murders in the Rue Morgue does not disappoint . Many of the scenes are shot like works of art . One of my favorites ( and not just in this movie , but when compared with other movies ) is the scene where Bela's prostitute victim is tied to the cross in his laboratory . The lighting , staging , and use of shadows make it one of the most beautiful scenes I've ever seen . What Doesn't Work : - Stagey . While this is a common complaint with some of the older films , I think I have only used the term twice before - Dracula and The Cocoanuts . But the term " stagey " fits many scenes in Murders in the Rue Morgue quite nicely . The unnatural feel caused by this took away from the atmosphere the movie was going for in many of these scenes . - The Rest of the Cast . As good as Bela is , many of the other members of the cast have trouble meeting the standard set by Bela . The actor who immediately comes to mind is Leon Ames . On more than one occasion I found myself groaning out loud at his ludicrous performance . - That's No Gorilla . This may seem picky , but I was bothered almost the entire movie by the close-ups of the gorilla that obviously wasn't a gorilla . In long shots , it's easy to tell that it's a man in a gorilla suit . But in the tight shots , the gorilla suddenly transforms into a chimpanzee . It's very distracting . If for no other reason than Bela Lugosi's performance and the incredible cinematography of Karl Freund , I will re-watch this movie . While Murders in the Rue Morgue may never become a favorite of mine , the work of these two men easily makes the movie better than average . If you're a fan of either , I'm sure you will agree .
Harmless Fun	Thirty some years ago , a couple entered their bomb shelter because they thought the Russians were bombing California . They have a son while underground and he grows up only knowing life inside the shelter . It is now 1999 and the family is running out of supplies . The son must venture into the world above to gather the necessities his family needs to survive . Blast from the Past is definitely not the kind of movie I usually go for . But it has a certain charm that I found refreshing and enjoyable . It's harmless fun . While there's not much that is laugh-out-loud funny , several moments brought a smile to my face . Brendan Fraser plays the son to wide-eyed innocent perfection . He makes believable a totally ridiculous situation . The rest of the cast is quite good with memorable performances from Christopher Walken and Sissy Spacek as the couple from the 60s . Their demeanor , language , and actions were totally believable .
" Dirty , stinkin ' , slimy gators ! "	- While honeymooning on a train , a couple receives several telegrams of congratulations . But when the husband , Paul Webster ( Richard Crane ) , receives one telegram that seems to change his mood . He refuses to let his wife , Joyce Webster ( Beverly Garland ) , see the telegram or tell her what the problem is . At the next stop , Paul disembarks to make a telephone call . But as the train gets underway again , Paul is not on board . Frantically , Joyce begins her search for her husband . There are few clues to go on . It's as if he never existed . She finally gets a lead that takes her to a house in the middle of the Louisiana bayou . The people in the house appear to be hiding something . Joyce has to find a way to get past their lies and discover the truth . What is her husband's secret and why is he hiding in the swamp ? - Before I saw this movie for the first time , I had read some really bad things about it . I had also seen images of some of the very cheesy special effects . The movie is much better than I had been led to believe . And even though the special effects are laughable , they have a certain charm about them that I find endearing . For such a low budget movie , this is one of the most beautifully shot black and white films I've ever seen . I realize that everything is stage-bound , but it has that look that I love about these older films . The sets in The Alligator People are comparable to those from the older Universal classic monster films . - For the most part , the acting in The Alligator People is a step ahead of most other low budget films . Beverly Garland is completely believable as the heartbroken wife . She creates a character that I found it easy to care about . On the other end of the acting spectrum , Lon Chaney , Jr . gives one of the most embarrassing performances of his that I have seen to date . His drunken Cajun was a little too close to home and makes watching it that much more sad . The attempted rape scene ( shocking for a film in 1959 ) has to be a real low point for Chaney . - The Region 1 DVD features one of the best images I've seen for such a low budget , obviously B film . The widescreen print is simply gorgeous . It's too bad there are no real special features .
What's the Matter with Jin-Ju ?	Whispering Corridors is a slow moving , but engrossing , ghost story set in an all-girl's school in Korea . There have been a number of Asian horror films released in the U . S . in the past few years , but as this one was made before most , I think of it more as a trend-setter than a copycat . While much of the horror is subtle and implied , there are moments where the horror slaps you in the face with some very vivid imagery . The rest of the story dealing with the relationships between the girls and the teachers is not the normal kind of thing I go for , yet here it's very well done . It doesn't seem as clichd as most American films dealing with teens seem to be . The acting is top drawer and adds a lot to making the film work . I wish I could point out one or two of the performances that really stand out , but I don't speak Korean and all the names look alike to me . Whispering Corridors probably wouldn't work for those not patient enough to allow the film to slowly unfold . And while I may not have enjoyed it as much as some of the more recent Asian offerings like A Tale of Two Sisters , it's an enjoyable enough experience .
An interesting , early effort from Hitchcock	Although it's probably evident if you've read some of the other things I've written , I'm not a writer . I sometimes have difficulty putting my thoughts on a given movie into words . For whatever reason , I'm having more problems writing about Sabotage than I usually do with a movie . There are a lot of things I enjoyed about the movie . The plot , the acting ( especially Sylvia Sidney ) , and Hitchcock's ability to create tension worked for me . Like a lot of others , the " bomb on the bus " scene is the highlight of the movie . Hitchcock's genius at creating tension is as evident in this scene as any I've run across . Even though I've rated the film a , there are problems I have with Sabotage that bothered me . I usually hate the term " dated " when discussing movies , but it's the best term I can come up with to describe my feeling toward Sabotage . It might be that I haven't seen enough British films from the 30s or maybe it was the poor transfer on the DVD I watched , but I couldn't shake the feeling . It's really a minor point and it won't deter me from my mission of watching and discovering more of Hitchcock's older , pre-Hollywood films .
So sad - and so compelling	What a sad , sad story . Impaler tells the story of Jonathan Sharkey . Sharkey , for those as in the dark as I was , ran for the governor of Minnesota a few years ago as a self professed vampire and Satanist . I was impressed with director W . Tray White's work on the film . He sets up the movie to initially draw the viewer's sympathy . I admit that at first I found myself caring for Sharkey even though he was obviously crazy as a loon . It's painfully obvious that Sharkey has no idea about politics ( impaling criminals ? ) , vampirism ( a hickey on the arm is not feeding on blood , or Satanism . But White gives him the rope and Sharkey gleefully hangs himself with it . However , once White's got you sucked in ( pardon the pun ) , he switches tone to reveal what a real scum his subject really is . And by the time I found out that Sharkey had kids from a previous marriage that he refuses to see or support or that he had outstanding arrest warrants in Indiana , I was ready to string him up myself . White's finale ? allowing Sharkey a few minutes to sum up the movie and his life ? is brilliant . It serves to drive home the insanity of what came before . In short , Sharkey was , is , and probably always will be fraud who needs some serious help from the mental health community . But the film goes beyond the campaign , vampirism , and Satanism . Much of Impaler is an indictment against American pop culture . The insanity uncovered in Impaler includes our celebrity driven society that will give someone like Sharkey a platform to demonstrate his insanity for the bemusement of the masses . It becomes painfully obvious quite early on that Sharkey's not operating with a full deck . The lengths this man will go for attention are staggering . And it's deplorable the way the American press feeds the egos of these people . I can easily see how Sharkey might get some time and attention from The National Enquirer or even The Daily Show , but Sharkey actually made it to Fox News and CNN . These are supposed to be legit news gathering organizations . Watching Tucker Carlson interview Sharkey was more like watching something I would have expected from Stephen Colbert . No one was taking Sharkey seriously except for Sharkey . It's all really sad .
Little Ramon is all grown-up	A young girl brings a baby alligator home to Chicago from Florida . Her father doesn't care about Ramon the alligator and promptly flushes him down the toilet . After 12 years of a diet that includes the waste from a growth hormone lab , little Ramon is all grown-up . In fact , he's now a 36 foot mutant giant of an alligator . When people start going missing and random body parts start showing up , the police correctly suspect that something is going on in Chicago's sewer system . A disgraced cop named David Madison ( Robert Forster ) and reptile expert Marisa Kendall ( Robin Riker ) team up to track down the killer before more lives are lost . I think I've asked this before , but I'll do it again ? how many " Man vs . Nature " movies did the success of Jaws inspire ? Almost every animal I can think of took its turn stalking and killing man . Some of these Jaws-inspired movies , like Piranha for example , are at the very least entertaining movies . Others , like Devil Fish , are complete garbage . Alligator falls into the " entertaining " category with me . That shouldn't come as a surprise as the script was written by John Sayles , who was also responsible for Piranha . Sure , Alligator might not be the kind of movie to win an award or change the world , but it is a very fun way to spend about 90 minutes . Part of the reason is that Alligator doesn't try to pretend to be anything other than it is ? a simple story that attempts to cash-in on the success of Jaws . Everything from the similar music cues to the POV alligator shots as it attacks its prey to the way the alligator comes busting out of the sewer is eerily similar and reminiscent of Jaws . But can you really blame the people behind Alligator ? " It worked with a shark ? why not an alligator ? But Alligator has more going for it than its unabashed Jaws inspiration that other similar movies often lack . Two that I'll mention are the acting and the special effects . Both Robert Forster and Robin Riker give nice performances . Forster , in particular , plays his character with a sense of reality often missing in these kinds of movies . I particularly appreciated the very human and real touches like mentioning his receding hairline . Nicely done ! As for the special effects , the alligator looks as good as a mechanical alligator in 1980 could look . It's obvious that efforts were made to present a realistic creature . Lesser movies would have probably done it " on the cheap " and the end result wouldn't have been nearly as pleasing . Again , nicely done !
Pam , Sid , and Anitra - Now that's a threesome !	In the jungles of some unnamed banana republic sits a women's prison . The inmates are treated as slaves and forced to work in the sugar cane fields . A nearby band of revolutionaries comes up with an idea to recruit additional soldiers ? they need women to attract more men . The prison offers them a ready made supply of women . But how to get the women out ? Most WIP films I've seen are , in truth , very downbeat and depressing . They present scene after scene of women being tortured and otherwise humiliated . The Big Bird Cage is something of a change from the standard formula . Sure , the movie features some of the same torture scenes , gratuitous nudity , and violence , but much of it is done with a sense of humor that worked for me . Watching Sid Haig do his over-the-top queen shtick may be un-PC , but sign me up for sensitivity training because I found it very funny . It's a novel idea for a WIP film to have gay male guards to keep them from falling for the temptations of their prisoners . The plot makes little sense if you stop and think about it . The plan the revolutionaries come up with to get the women out of the prison makes about as much sense as skydiving without a parachute and has about as much chance for success . It only serves to get Pam Grier into the prison to work from the inside . The film works best if you ignore the implausibility of the situation and just enjoy . I love watching Pam Grier , but to be honest , her delivery is often stilted . This is especially true in her early films . The Big Bird Cage may be the best of her early work . For the most part , she's more natural sounding . She and Sid Haig have a real chemistry that works in these movies . I would love to see someone reunite the pair in a new movie . The cast also features Anitra Ford , who may not be the best actress in the world , but she's definitely easy on the eyes .
Gotta love those Templars	The Templars are back in action , this time terrorizing a local village . And while I found a lot to enjoy , the movie suffers because it is a sequel . I suppose selecting a favorite depends on which Blind Dead movie you see first . I happened to see Tombs of the Blind Dead ( the first in the series ) before I saw Return of the Evil Dead . As a result , a lot of the suspense and mystery surrounding the Templars is lost in this movie . I already knew what the Templars were all about and wasn't as shocked as I was with the first movie . That's not to say there aren't moments of horror gold to be found in Return of the Evil Dead . Once again , the Templars rising from the grave is very well done . The scene where the villagers are trapped in the Plaza by the Templars on horseback is one of the best of first two movies . And Return of the Evil Dead has characters that are easier to care about . Add to that the requisite amount of violence , blood , and general creepiness and you've got a very solid horror movie .
You can all but feel the rocks pounding down as each Nazi shell hits .	The Desert Rats is a very enjoyable WWII film dealing with a portion of the war that may seem alien to those in America . Americans are accused , and sometimes rightly so , of thinking WWII began and ended with America's involvement . But it didn't . The Desert Rats is the story of the Allies last stand in Northern Africa at Tobruk . Rommel and the Nazis would have clear sailing to the important Suez if Tobruk fell . It's up to Capt . MacRoberts ( Richard Burton ) and his band of green Aussie replacements to stop the advance of Hitler's army . When you read comments about war movies , you always read complaints about historical accuracy . Is The Desert Rats true to history ? I'm not a student of history , so I wouldn't know . Furthermore , I don't really care . To me , it's about the entertainment I get from a film and I've always found The Desert Rats entertaining . The authentic looking sets , the tremendous ground shaking explosions , the plot that focuses on a small band of men , and the action sequences are all highlights of the movie for me . Robert Wise's direction and Lucien Ballard's cinematography put the viewer in the middle of the action . You can all but feel the rocks pounding down as each Nazi shell hits . It's very well done . My only complaint about The Desert Rats is in the overall construction . I realize that it's a result of attempting to be historically accurate , but history doesn't always put events in the most exciting sequences . The film opens with its best moments . The battle scene between the dug-in Aussie's and Rommel's tanks is as exciting and well filmed as I've seen in a war movie . Unfortunately , the movie ( as dictated by history ) cannot keep up this pace . The ending , as the now battle-hardened Aussie hold a hill waiting for replacements , is anticlimactic .
Madienform Bonfire	Joanna Eberhart ( Katharine Ross ) has moved to Stepford with her husband and children . The place seems absolutely idyllic . But it's not long before Joanna and her new found friend Bobbie ( Paula Prentiss ) , also new to Stepford , begin to realize not all is as wonderful as it seems . The women in town seem to have no interests other than cleaning their houses and pleasing their husbands . Is it something in the water ? Joanna and Bobbie must discover the mystery of Stepford before they become its next victims . While The Stepford Wives may be slow going , it never gets dull . The slow pace adds a lot to the mystery . I've often argued that for effective suspense , you can't rush it . It takes time to build . And even though I knew exactly where The Stepford Wives was going , it was a joy to watch the mystery unfold . Two of the biggest things the movie has going for it are the cast and the script . As for the cast , Katharine Ross and Paula Prentiss are outstanding . Ross plays her role in a very understated manner and isn't quick to jump to wild conclusions without adequate proof . Too often , characters in horror movies will jump to the wildest of conclusions without a shred of evidence . It makes things very unrealistic . As for Prentiss , she steals every scene in which she appears . And her character is one of the most intelligent , yet free-spirited characters I've seen recently in a movie . In fact , given the implausibility inherent in the story , the entire script is written intelligently . The characters speak and act as one would expect given the circumstances . Plus , any script with the phrase " Madienform Bonfire " is alright with me . I suppose my biggest complaint would be the lack of time given to the mansion that houses the Stepford Men's Association . I kept waiting for Joanna and Bobbie to do some amateur sleuthing , but it never happened . And even when Joanna finally gets inside , it's over far too quickly .
" Hey , hot shot . We're out of food . "	I am so glad I finally had the chance to see Day of the Animals . I've been a fan of William Girdler's Grizzly as long as I can remember . But for whatever reason , I had never seen his follow-up . So , did it meet my expectations ? While I didn't enjoy it nearly as much as Grizzly , it's still a fun ride for anyone with a taste for these animal attack movies . In this one , a varied bunch of would-be backpackers is helicoptered to the top of a mountain . The plan is to take a couple of weeks and hike down the mountain and out of the woods . Leading the hikers is experienced guide Steve Buckner ( Christopher George ) . The rest of the group is made up of varied individuals including a boy and his overly protective mother , a couple trying to reconcile their marriage , a professor , a reporter , and an advertising executive . Things get off to a good start , but unbeknownst to the group , there's trouble brewing . It seems that ozone depletion is having a very negative effect on the animals at higher altitudes . The " negative effect " is the animals have all turned into killing machines with man as their prey . Can this band of novices make it out of the woods before they become victims ? Man , do I love this kind of movie ! It plays out something like a bizarre episode of The Love Boat with killer animals at every turn . But even I realize that Day of the Animals might not be for everyone . If you don't want to watch a band of ill-equipped , ill-prepared 70s types walking and talking their way through the forest , you might want to skip it . The actual animal attacks , while acceptable , are standard 70s movie stuff ? nothing overly special or groundbreaking about them . The tension and atmosphere is also standard for a 70s animal attack movie . A shot of the people ? a shot of the animal ? another shot of the people ? a shot of the animal getting closer to the people . If you've seen it once , you've seen it a million times . Fortunately for me , I get a real kick out of this kind of cheese . But the best part of the movie has to be the performance of Leslie Nielsen . It has to be the most over-the-top piece of acting I've ever been fortunate enough to see . You could look far and wide and not find anything that comes close to the scene-chewing on display in Day of the Animals . A friend of mine wrote the he almost gave the movie a based solely on Nielsen performance . I've gotta agree with that . He's that amazing !
Elvis & JFK	- This movie answers the age old question - what would happen if Elvis were still alive and living in an East Texas nursing home that was under attack from a mummy ? It's up to Elvis and his friend , a black man who is convinced he is John F . Kennedy , to save the other residents of the rest home . - Bubba Ho-Tep is billed as a " comedy / horror " . While it has it's moments of both comedy and horror , I see it as a very touching drama . While the whole concept of the movie may have a certain camp appeal , it is so much more than that . It's the story of a man who realizes that most of his life has been wasted . It's the story of a man who wonders if his life has any meaning . It's the story of a man who is looking for a reason to live again . And , it's the story of how disposable older people in our culture are . Elvis realizes that if he can save the other residents , he can create something positive in his life before he dies . It is these moments in Bubba Ho-Tep that touched me deeply . - This may have been why I didn't rate the movie higher , though . I was expecting something I could laugh and have a good time with . And while the scenes of Elvis in a wheelchair going face-to-face with a mummy certainly meet this criteria , these scenes are few and far between . Instead , we see Elvis laying in the bed for half the movie , reminiscing about his life . And although interesting , it's not what I was expecting , or hoping for for that matter . - Don't watch Bubba Ho-Tep expecting a laugh a minute or a scare around every corner . But if you want to see a nice examination of one man's struggles as he grows old ( mixed with a healthy does of camp ) , it may be the movie for you .
Never fails to entertain	I've said it before , but with The Beastmaster , it bears repeating ? the biggest single factor I use when rating a movie is entertainment value . Great production values , an intricate plot , superb acting , expensive special effects , etc . are secondary to the enjoyment I get form a film . Sure , I realize my enjoyment of a movie can be affected by something like bad acting , but I as long as I find a certain level of entertainment in a movie , it's a good movie as far as I'm concerned and I rate it accordingly . So while I am perfectly capable of seeing the flaws in The Beastmaster , I have a blast every time I've seen it and have no problems rating it a . And when you think about it , isn't having fun one of the most important things you can get out of a movie . I feel sorry for anyone who can't have a good time with The Beastmaster . I mean , what's not to like ? If you can't have fun with : an oily , buffed-up Marc Singer talking to his animals and swinging a nice sword ; a half-dressed ( and in one instance , a not dressed ) Tanya Roberts ; John Amos in S & M gear : Rip Torn in dreads and a beak of a nose ; ferrets ; a tiger with a bad dye job ; hideous witches ; fights on a pyramid ; an army on horseback with bat wing helmets ; massive explosions ; giant bird-like creatures who engulf their prey ; and underground passages filled with crazed , berserker like guards , then you just don't know how to have a good time . Finally , I'm sick of hearing that The Beastmaster somehow ripped-off Conan the Barbarian ( something I've heard repeatedly over the years ) . If you listen to the commentary on the DVD for The Beastmaster , you'll quickly realize that there is no way this movie could have been made in response to the success of Conan - it was pretty much in the can when Conan was released . The timing turned out to be a happy coincidence and I'm sure Don Coscarelli and Paul Pepperman were pleased with that . Conan created a market for Sword & Sorcerer movies in the early 80s . Admittedly , The Beastmaster rode that wave and , I'm sure , benefited form it . And it doesn't hurt that The Beastmaster is one of the best movies of this type that followed Conan . A lot of the Conan-inspired films of the 80s are barely watchable . The Beastmaster rises above the mire and is one of the few actually memorable Sword & Sorcerer movies that came out during this period .
" And when you sing , Christine , you will be singing only . . . for me . "	Almost every movie fan knows the story ? an opera house is beset with problems as a new production is set to open . At first it's strange , annoying occurrences like missing music or damaged instruments . But it goes beyond mere annoyance when a stagehand is murdered . What evil force is behind this series of events ? As a fan of Hammer , there's a lot here to enjoy . The first thing I always notice , and it's hard not to , is the film's " look " . Hammer made some wonderful looking movies and The Phantom of the Opera just might be at the top of that list . Beautiful is the way I would describe it . The colors , the sets , and the costumes are so incredibly pleasing to the eye . Everything from the rich burgundy curtains on the opera stage to the simple , but effective mask worn by the Phantom are perfect . You could spend three times the budget of The Phantom of the Opera and not come up with something that looks this good . Terence Fisher directed some of Hammer's best films . And his work on The Phantom of the Opera is among his best . I've read complaints that Fisher lacked imagination and was , at best , a workmanlike director who was lucky to be " in the right place at the right time " . With The Phantom of the Opera , Fisher shows more artistic touches and allows the camera to be more fluid than at any time I can remember . Fisher was aided by an impressive cast . Other than Heather Sears in the female lead , the acting is solid . Edward de Souza , Thorley Walters , and Herbert Lom are all great in their respective roles . But , as usual and as expected , Michael Gough as Lord Ambrose d " Arcy steals every scene in which he appears . He's just so deliciously evil and over-the-top . There are several little moments in The Phantom of the Opera that make it special . Scenes like those involving the rat catcher or the opera house cleaning women might seem like throwaway moments , but they help add life and interest to the film . Or the dinner scene when Sears character turns down d'Arcy's advances . The look of contempt on Gough's face as he stalks out of the restaurant is priceless . Very well done ! In the end , while there have been any number of versions of The Phantom of the Opera made over the years , Hammer's version is my favorite . It's definitely a movie that any Hammer fan or anyone interested in learning about Hammer should see .
" Aw , quit disturbing the molecules ! "	Mary Eldredge , a wealthy older woman , is prepared to make a substantial donation to the school Nancy Drew ( Bonita Granville ) attends . But when she disappears before the gift can be finalized , Nancy immediately suspects foul play . And when Nancy witnesses the local doctor being kidnapped , she's sure she's on the right track . Can Nancy , with the help of her friend Ted Nickerson ( Frankie Thomas ) , find and rescue the old woman ? Honestly , I wasn't expecting to enjoy Nancy Drew ? Detective quite as much as I did . Sure , I'm a fan of 1930s-style mysteries like the Charlie Chan or Falcon series , but from afar , I've always thought of the Nancy Drew movies too lightweight and fluffy in comparison ( though when I think about it , there's nothing deep and meaningful about Chan or any of the other movies I've enjoyed for years ) . And though Nancy Drew ? Detective is a breezy affair , it's still very enjoyable . I cannot come up with enough positives to write about Bonita Granville . She has an infectious charm that dominates the entire movie . It's hard to watch her and not have a smile on your face . You just naturally root for her . The supporting players , particularly John Litel as Carson Drew and Frankie Thomas as Ted Nickerson , also add a lot of enjoyment to the movie . The mystery elements of Nancy Drew ? Detective hardly matter . It's quite obvious from the start what has happened to the old woman Nancy is looking for . But none of that really matters . The important thing is watching Nancy and the gang get to the final solution . It's just a lot of fun !
A solid entry in the Mr . Moto series	It's interesting to me that it's the " B " films of the 30s and 40s that seem to be so popular today . I sincerely doubt that anyone involved in the making of these movies could have imagined or cared that there would be an audience for their work almost 70 years later . Mysterious Mr . Moto is an enjoyable " B " that features everything you could ask for in one of these movies ? a nice mystery , good action , sets that far exceed the film's limited budgets , exotic and quirky characters , and a sense of fun about the whole thing . Peter Lorre is back as the mysterious Japanese detective , Mr . Moto . In this installment in the series , Mr . Moto has himself imprisoned on Devil's Island so that he might gain the trust of one of the other prisoners who happens to be involved with a gang of international murderers for hire . They escape and head to America . Acting as the other man's servant , Mr . Moto is in a perfect position to put a stop to the group's activities . Mysterious Mr . Moto will never be confused with a deep , meaningful example of film-making . But it's not supposed to . It's a fun romp . And even if identity of the leader of the gang of murderers is obvious early on , it hardly matters . It's just fun watching Moto get to the answer . Lorre is as good as billed and he has a cast of familiar faces backing him up . Fans will recognize Harold Huber , Leon Ames , and Erik Rhodes from their numerous roles in other 30s " B " films . Each does a nice job of adding a bit of fun to the film .
It doesn't matter what he's doing - Jack Palance is awesome !	When the Earth's tainted food supply knocks most of its pilots out of commission putting the planet's defenses at risk , Buck and Col Deering visit the planet the food comes from to investigate . What they find is a population enslaved by the charismatic and ruthless Kaleel ( Jack Palance ) , a clueless Governor ( Roddy McDowell ) , and an attack force ready to strike the Earth . Once again , it's up to Buck Rogers to save the day ! To begin with , " Planet of the Slave Girls " is something of a misleading title . But it's probably more effective from a marketing standpoint than the truth - " Planet Where Everyone is Enslaved , Not Just the Hot Women " . Whatever the title , this is a very enjoyable two-part episode . There are a number of things that I could point to as highlights , but at the top of that list would be Jack Palance . His character , Kaleel , is not unlike a television evangelist inspiring the troops ( or slaves in this case ) to do his bidding . Instead of healing hands , however , Jack's got glowing red hands of death . He's awesome ! Beyond Jack , the rest of the episode is enjoyable . The plot is interesting and the episode is entertaining throughout . If you've seen Buck Rogers before , you pretty much get what you expect ? some cheesy but fun special effects , Twiki being annoying , Erin Grey in a variety of spandex , gaudiness everywhere you look , and Buck . There aren't a whole lot of surprises . " Planet of the Slave Girls " does feature a plot thread involving a Major Duke Denton who represents a rival to Buck for Col Deering . Denton is played by David Groh . He and Gil Gerard seem to have developed some immediate chemistry . The pair play off each other nicely . My biggest complaint with " Planet of the Slave Girls " is how underutilized Roddy McDowell is . He was given virtually nothing to do .
Terrific cast and terrific set-pieces	Dr . Dan Potter has accepted a position at a mental facility known as the Haven . It's a unique place with no bars to keep the patients inside , only electric doors . During a blackout , four mental patients escape from the institution with the plan of getting their revenge on the new doctor who they believe killed their old doctor . The escapees wait for nightfall to lay siege to the doctor's house . Can Dr . Potter and his family survive this night of terror ? What Works : - The Acting . Alone in the Dark features one of the better casts assembled for what is essentially a slasher movie . Jack Palance gives one of those stoic , menacing performances as the leader of the escaped patients . Donald Pleasence's eccentric doctor is a kook who may be more unbalanced than the patients he treats . But Martin Landau's demented Preacher may be the best . All Landau has to do is flash that twisted smile to effectively show how deranged his character really is . - Trapped in the House . I've always claimed that if allow yourself to , in essence , " let go " almost any horror film can provide a few frights or scares . I try to do this whenever I watch a horror film . With that in mind , the final third of Alone in the Dark provides some wonderful frightening moments . You know the escaped patients are out there and you know they are capable of almost anything , but you don't know where they are or when they will strike . It's the stuff of real nightmares . - Death of a Babysitter . This may be the most frightening set-piece in the film . Sure , it's clichd , but Sholder does a terrific job of using misdirection to really make this scene effective . Very nice ! - Mom's Diner . The opening scene set in the diner is one of the most deliciously surreal things I've seen in a while . It's easily one of the most " fun " scenes in the movie . What Doesn't Work : - We Don't Need No Stinking Logic . As with a lot of horror movies , there are plot holes and lapses in logic that can interfere with the enjoyment of the movie if you let them . One example is the reaction of everyone in the movie ( including Dr . Potter , his wife , and the police ) to the discovery that a child molester has been in the house and spent the afternoon with the Potter's daughter . The reaction ? no big deal . Go on with things as normal . - That 80's Feeling . I hate the term " dated " when describing a movie , but it's the best I can come up with to describe Dr . Potter's sister . I know that people like that existed in the 80s , I'm just trying to forget it . Back in 1982 , I saw a lot of horror movies in the theater . I'm not sure how Alone in the Dark escaped under the radar , but it did . I'm glad to have finally discovered this gem . It's a well-acted , well-made slasher with some genuine scares . Alone in the Dark is a real nice addition to my DVD library .
One of the better Matt Helm films	Count Massimo Contini ( Nigel Green ) is the mastermind behind a billion dollar gold robbery . His plan is to send the world markets into chaos . He may get away with it unless Matt Helm ( Dean Martin ) can track down the missing gold . But along the way , Helm will meet up the Count's hired muscle , a gorgeous female killer , and a ditsy woman who insists on helping him . I suppose the best way to describe a Matt Helm film would be a light and breezy spoof of the James Bond movies . Nothing is very serious and you're sure that everything will work out in the end . Dean Martin plays Matt Helm about as laid back as could be imagined . Instead of a gun , you're more likely to see him with a drink in one hand , a cigarette in the other , a beautiful woman to ogle , and a quick quip . His fights scenes may leave a lot to be desired , but there's no denying his " cool " . The Wrecking Crew is actually one of the better Matt Helm films . The hiding place of the gold is ingenious , the spy gadgets are plentiful , and the women are everywhere . The cast is one of the better assembled for any of these films . Nigel Green and Elke Sommer make a wonderful pair as the distinguished master criminal and the sexy killer ( roles very similar to the ones they played in 1966's Deadlier Than the Male ) . But Sharon Tate really shines as the ditsy Freya Carlson . It's incredibly sad to think that this would be Tate's last role before her brutal murder . She's a joy and a real pleasure to watch .
A Guilty Pleasure	- A young girl seemingly commits suicide for no reason . Her sister Elizabeth ( Pamela Franklin ) , feeling that something was terribly wrong , takes an assumed name and enrolls at the all-girls ' school her sister attended . In short order , two more girls commit suicide . With the help of her friend Roberta ( Kate Jackson ) she is determined to get at the bottom of what's going on . - Most people I know do not care for this movie as much as I do . Oh , I certainly can see the problems with the movie , but I tend to overlook them . There are a few creepy scenes and I always get hooked by the story ( what little story there is ) . It's kind of like a poor man's Suspiria . Most of the real plot points , however , can be seen a mile away . For example , do you really have to stretch your imagination to guess what might be going on at a 300 year old school in Salem , MA where eight of the former students were accused of being witches ? I know it's a toughy , but just try to guess . Still , this doesn't take away from the fun I always have with Satan's School for Girls . Also , it's a real blast to see future Charlie's Angels Kate Jackson and Cheryl Ladd before they became famous . - For me , though , it may be more of a nostalgia thing than actually enjoying a good movie . I can remember seeing this when it originally aired in 1973 . I was 9 years old when it aired that September . Satan's School for Girls scared me so bad I couldn't sleep . I really wish they still made TV movies like they did in the 70s .
" But if you'd have shot me , you'd be moppin ' up my blood now . "	A Bucket of Blood is a nice little Corman horror film . It plays better than many of his other non-Poe , non-Price films . It's the story of a " backwards " busboy in a beatnik dive trying to fit in by becoming an artist . His creations are the talk of the joint . But just how is the seemingly talentless busboy able to create such realistic images of death ? Dick Miller plays the busboy in one of the few feature roles I remember seeing him in . The mix of emotions he imbibes into his character is a highlight of the film . At one moment he's confused , the next a raving lunatic . Corman kept the screenplay simple and it works . I've seen too many low budget directors try to creative effects , etc . that their budgets just do not allow . Corman doesn't do this . This one is definitely recommended to fans of the 50s quickie horror films .
Gritty	- Across 110th Street is definitely a product of its time . Although it's lumped in with the Blaxplotation movies of its day , it's really doesn't belong with those films . While films like Foxy Brown , Cleopatra Jones , and Superfly featured larger than life characters that border on being comic book characters , Across 110th Street seeks to give a more accurate portrait of what was happening in the inner-cities in the early 1970s . Sure , the events have been fictionalized , but the gritty truth is just under the surface . These aren't pretty pictures with pretty Hollywood actors . These are people with little hope for the future . They're almost forced to take chances with their lives and lives of their loved ones to make a better future for themselves . It's ugly and totally fascinating at the same time . Across 110th Street is movie not to be missed .
A very nice heist film	The plot of Seven Thieves is similar in many respects to the dozens of other heist movies made in the 50s and 60s . Edward G . Robinson plays the kindly , but discredited professor who has put together a plan to rob a Monte Carlo casino much as he would put together an experiment to mix two chemicals . He assembles his team and they get to work planning and rehearsing their roles for the big heist . It will require timing , precision , and a good head if something should go wrong . If one member fails to perform , it will mean certain disaster for the rest . But can these seven really just walk out of a casino with $4 million in French francs ? Seven Thieves is a nice , enjoyable heist film . It's certainly not as good as it could have been , but it is entertaining with a few tense moments along the way . The film has an incredible look that far exceeds its budget . The cinematography and lighting are solid . The set decoration is a real standout . The locations and sets fit the film perfectly . Combine all of these elements and you've got one very nice looking movie . In short , Seven Thieves looks stunning . And speaking of stunning , there's Joan Collins . While everyone in the film gives a good performance , none of her male co-stars can hope to compete with her . She steals every scene in which she appears . And what a knockout ! Those dance numbers are a highlight for me . I don't know why it took me so long to discover Ms . Collins , but I'm a fan now . But , as is almost always the case , the movie isn't perfect . As I said , Seven Thieves is not as good as it could have been . Even though there were a number of things that bothered me , I'll limit this to two key weaknesses I saw in the film . First , there's a twist near the end of Seven Thieves involving Rod Steiger's character that is completely unnecessary . Its only purpose seems to have been to create some overly artificial sentimentality . The movie didn't need it . Second , and most importantly , I have a big problem is Rod Steiger himself . Don't misunderstand ? he gives a solid ( and surprisingly understated ) performance , but he's terribly miscast in Seven Thieves . He just doesn't look the part he's asked to play here . And he seems so terribly serious throughout . The role seems to have called for a different sort of actor with a more natural sense of humor . In the end , the good outweighed the negative and I really enjoyed watching Seven Thieves . And I've come full-circle on Joan Collins . I can't wait to discover more of her early work . For what it's worth , I'll rate this one a .
Nice entry in the series	Charlie Chan arrives in Egypt and , as expected , a murder soon takes place . The murder in Charlie Chan in Egypt is among the most clever than I've seen in a Chan film . And , Chan's method of discovering how the murder was committed is equally clever . The mystery here is fairly straight forward without a lot of red herrings . The sets in Charlie Chan in Egypt are among the best of the entire series . The Pharaoh's tomb is very impressive . Two notes on the cast - first , look for Rita Hayworth ( under her real name ) playing a servant girl . She doesn't add much to the story , but it's interesting none the less . Second , There is a lot of criticism of the Stepin Fetchit character . While I understand and can see the racist stereotype , that is not as much of a problem with me as the character in general . He seems out of place . I find nothing he does to be funny or enjoyable . It's only annoying to me .
Other than a poorly timed flashback , not much to complain about	While on holiday with his friend , Captain Hastings , renowned detective Hercule Poirot is pressed into service to help solve a murder . A very wealthy man's body has been discovered in a sand bunker at a golf course with a knife in his back . His wife is found bound and gagged with a story of two Chilean kidnappers that took her husband in the middle of the night . With no other witnesses , the police quite naturally believe the woman's story . But to Poirot , these events seem oddly familiar and quite suspicious . Poirot must look back into the past to stop a killer from murdering again in the future . As with Hickory Dickory Dock ( which I wrote about yesterday ) , Murder on the Links is a good episode , just not a great one . There are a number of changes from Agatha Christie's original work ? most I didn't really care for . I suppose , however , one has to expect that certain creative licenses will be taken to adapt Christie's books to the screen . And other than one significant issue I have with an early flashback ( which I will get to in a moment ) , most of the mystery elements from the book are here and most work satisfactorily . The acting is nice . I've run out of positives to say about David Suchet . He , quite simply , IS Poirot . Hugh Fraser gives another wonderfully understated performance as Poirot's Dr . Watson , Captain Hastings . The supporting cast is strong , but none of the actors really stand out above the others . Another big plus for Murder on the Links is the attention to detail taken in the sets and the setting . I'm no expert , but the movie looks like it's straight out of the 1930s . Sure , there are one or two discrepancies here and there , but overall , the movie looks incredible . The train station and the hotel are both amazing . My biggest complaint with Murder on the Links comes from a flashback at the very beginning of the movie . Certain key elements of the mystery are revealed way to early in the script . You find out things within the first 5 minutes that would have been best left until near the end . Otherwise , I don't have any other significant issues with this installment of the Poirot series . A seems about right to me .
" I don't like the smell of you - an underground smell , the sick sweetness of decay . "	The Pearl of Death is about average for the Basil Rathbone Sherlock Holmes films I've seen so far . It's not as good as something like The Scarlet Claw , but I thought it was better than some of the others I've seen . Rathbone and Nigel Bruce give their usual solid performances . However , I found that a little bit too much of the focus was on Bruce . That's not always a bad thing , but here he really didn't have much to do . Watching him paste clippings in a book for several minutes isn't the most entertaining thing in the world . My only complaint with the supporting cast is I would have liked more Evelyn Ankers . Other than that , they're fine . The story is good and it's nice to see Holmes fail on occasion as he does in the beginning of The Pearl of Death . In fact it's an incredible change of pace to see Holmes make such a gargantuan mistake that ends up costing several people their lives .
" My only interest in your head is how easy it'll crack open . "	Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall only made a handful of movies together . Three of these movies ? The Big Sleep , To Have and Have Not , and Key Largo ? are in that special class of films that I call great . Dark Passage , on the other hand , is merely a good movie . It's not great by any stretch of the imagination ? just good . The story involves a man wrongly imprisoned for the murder of his wife and the woman who wants to help him prove his innocence after he escapes from jail . As you might expect , Bogart and Bacall have a very natural on screen chemistry . There's nothing fake here . The scenes in Dark Passage that feature both of them are some of the real highlights of the movie . Unfortunately , their on screen time together is limited by the decision not to show Bogart for the first third of the movie . The whole concept of telling the story from the first person perspective until Bogart's character has plastic surgery is , at first , a novel idea that presents the opportunity for several unusual and innovative scenes . But I've always felt this goes on far too long . What starts as " novel " turns into " tiresome " before we finally get to see Bogart's mug . Beyond Bogart and Bacall , there's quite a bit to enjoy in Dark Passage . The cinematography is nice , the San Francisco locations are interesting , and the dialogue is snappy . The supporting cast is more than adequate with Agnes Moorhead being the standout . Although her role is limited , she steals scene after scene from Bogart and Bacall ? something that doesn't appear to have been an easy thing to do . I suppose the biggest weakness I see in Dark Passage is the implausibility of certain plot elements . For example , when Bogart's character escapes from prison , he just happens to end up on the road that Bacall's character just happens to be driving on . She just happens to notice an abandoned car on the side road and just happens to recognize Bogart when she pulls her car over . Too many coincidences for my liking .
" Weird , man . Way out . I mean , spooks , hobgoblins , black magic . All that sort of stuff . "	In 1872 , Dracula was finally put to rest by Professor Van Helsing . One hundred years later , a group of young people thinks it might be good for a few laughs to perform a Black Mass . Unknown to them , a member of their group is a decedent of one of Dracula's disciples who has been waiting for this opportunity to bring Dracula back from the dead . Alive in modern day London , Dracula now seeks revenge against the Van Helsing family and plans to get that revenge by making Jessica Van Helsing one of his kind . Take a look around the internet and you'll notice that on almost every list of favorite Hammer vampire films , Dracula A . D . 1972 is at or near the bottom . I don't get it . I actually had a bit of fun with this one . The scenes of the Black Mass were sufficiently creepy , much of the hip 70s music and vibe were infectious , Stephanie Beacham made a great heroine as Jessica Van Helsing , Christopher Neame was perfectly cast as Dracula's disciple Johnny Alucard , and the final showdown between Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing is one of the better match-ups they had in these roles . I enjoyed it so much that I have no problem placing Dracula A . D . 1972 among my three favorite of Hammer's Dracula films . It just goes to prove that while recommendations on the internet can be useful , taking a chance on a movie with a less than stellar reputation can sometimes payoff .
A sequel in name only	The Mummy's Hand may be known as a sequel to Universal's classic The Mummy , but it's a sequel in name only . And in my opinion , it was a very wise decision to drop the story line and characters of The Mummy and create a new mythos with Kharis . Without Boris Karloff's involvement , carrying I'm-ho-tep / Ardath Bey into a sequel would have been sacrilege ( not to mention totally ridiculous as I'm-ho-tep / Ardath Bey dies in the first movie ) . The Mummy's Hand takes a completely different approach than The Mummy . Gone is much of the atmosphere and horror and in its place are humor and adventure . It's not necessarily a bad thing , just different . Some of Wallace Ford's humor actually hits its mark and still brings at least a smile to my face . Another big difference between the original and the sequel is the mummy's " purpose " and the way the mummy is presented . In The Mummy , I'm-ho-tep / Ardath Bey is his own man ( so to speak ) with a singular , driving reason for being . In contrast , Kharis is a pawn for a master . He does not think and act for himself . The Mummy's Hand also differs from The Mummy in the amount of screen time given to the traditional images of a heavily wrapped , shuffling mummy . The Mummy only gave the actual bandaged mummy a few minutes ( if not seconds ) of screen time . On the other hand , Kharis ' bandaged visage is a fixture in the final 30 minutes of The Mummy's Hand . Getting away from the comparisons with the original for a moment , The Mummy's Hand is a nice little film that provides plenty of excitement during its relatively short runtime . The movie never bogs down or gets too slow ? there's always something going on . The mummy makeup is well done with the blacked-out eyes being the highlight of the special effects for me . It's such a creepy look . The acting is okay , but nothing great . Cecil Kellaway steals every scene in which he appears as the financial backer of the expedition to find the mummy . He's quite funny without appearing to try very hard . And I cannot say enough positive about George Zucco . Zucco is outstanding as the mummy's master , Professor Andoheb , High Priest of Karnak . Overall , while I will never think of The Mummy's Hand as highly as I do of its predecessor , it's a solid little movie and definitely worth a watch for fans of classic horror .
" Hail Diane - Princess of Darkness "	After her mother's untimely and violent death , Diane Shaw ( Belinda Montgomery ) meets a woman named Lilith Malone ( Shelley Winters ) who claims to be one of her mother's old friends . Lilith invites Diane to stay with her for a while . At first things seem almost ideal , but a series of strange events soon puts a different spin on things . Diane decides to leave Lilith's house , but can't seem to escape her control . Is Lilith who and what she claims to be ? Or is she the devil in disguise ? I just love watching Shelley Winters in a movie like this . Although she's in control most of the time , there's at least one scene where Winters loses it that's too much fun . I don't think her turn in The Devil's Daughter is anywhere near her best , but she always a joy . The rest of the cast is good . Jonathan Frid , Abe Vigoda , Diane Ladd , and Joseph Cotton are all good in their respective roles . I also love these 1970s made-for-TV movies . As I wrote in a comment to another Movie of the Week , young people today would be surprised at how much we enjoyed watching these movies . And if it was horror or horror related , it was something we really looked forward to . Movies like Satan's School for Girls , Gargoyles , and The Night Stalker were the highlights of the television schedule . The Devil's Daughter is another fine example of made-for-TV horror . It's not the best of the bunch , but it is effectively creepy in spots . A few of the scenes , like the party Diane attends where she discovers her titular birthright , are eerily reminiscent of Rosemary's Baby . Overall , it's an enjoyable little film ? not great by any stretch of the imagination ? just enjoyable . I would rate it even higher if the screenplay weren't so predictable . I defy anyone who has seen more than a handful of horror to find many surprises in the plot . But even as predictable as the film's climax may be , it's still a trip to watch unfold .
" Death is a black camel that kneels unbidden at every gate . "	On her way to Hawaii to make a movie , actress Shelah Fane meets and falls in love with a very wealthy man . She intends to marry him but something from her past is troubling her . After she is talked out of going through with the wedding by her psychic Tarneverro ( Bela Lugosi ) , Shelah Fane is found dead in her ocean front bungalow . Unfortunately for the murderer , Charlie Chan ( Warner Oland ) is on the case . I am a very unabashed Charlie Chan fan . So finally having the opportunity to watch the oldest known surviving Chan film ( okay , I realize there are older films with the Chan character , but I do not consider them part of the official series ) was a real treat . And if nothing else , The Black Camel is wonderful from a historical perspective . It's a fascinating look into the early developments of the Chan character . It's also a chance to see a very early example of sound used in a movie . And on the basis of these facts alone , the movie deserves to be seen and enjoyed . But the movie is more than just a historical curiosity . It's an enjoyable murder mystery . It's by no means perfect , but I was nonetheless entertained throughout . The cast is surprisingly strong . In later films , Oland would play Chan more confidently , but here it's interesting to watch him get his feet wet with the character . Lugosi always excelled at playing these foreign mystic type roles and does so here . Also on hand are a very young Robert Taylor , Dwight Frye , and C . Henry Gordon who appeared in a number of Chan films . Overall , it's a nice cast . The plot in The Black Camel is fairly interesting and director Hamilton MacFadden keeps things moving at a good pace . It's not the most compelling Chan mystery , but I did enjoy playing along . I must confess , however , that the ending does get a bit muddled as to the how's and why's of everything . As The Black Camel was released in 1931 , there are a number of shortcomings in the movie common with many of the other early talkies . The movie suffers from the " stagey " feeling I sometimes notice . Also , a soundtrack would have gone a long way in creating even more interest in the film . But these weaknesses are easily forgivable . Overall , Chan fans should rejoice that The Black Camel is finally available on a legit DVD release . I know it's made me very happy .
" Go and remove that FILTH at once ! "	The story : A young woman named Pat Carroll ( Stefanie Powers ) pays a courtesy call on Mrs . Trefoile ( Tallulah Bankhead ) , the mother of Pat's dead fianc . Pat plans to stay one night and be on her way . But Mrs . Trefoile has other ideas . She sees it as her mission to " cleanse " Pat and keep her pure for the day Pat will join her son in the afterlife . To accomplish her mission , Mrs . Trefoile locks Pat in an upper room of her crumbling mansion and preaches to her with a bible in one hand and a gun in the other . Tallulah ! That's all you really need to know about Die ! Die ! My Darling ! Tallulah Bankhead's performance is so over-the-top , so wonderfully demented , so full of campy entertainment that she dominates every aspect of this movie . Stefanie Powers is good , but she and the rest of the cast are completely overshadowed by Tallulah . I just can't imagine anyone else ( and that includes the likes of Bette Davis or Joan Crawford who were also part of the aging actress playing a crazed nut in a horror movie ) in the role of Mrs . Trefoile ? she's that good . I'll go so far as to say that Tallulah's performance in Die ! Die ! My Darling ! is one of my two or three favorite pieces of acting from any horror movie I've seen . Amazing !
Much better the second time around	I saw Fulci's Zombi 2 a number of years ago and didn't really care for it . I suppose that at the time I didn't quite understand Italian horror and its excesses . Having re-watched it last night at the insistence of an internet friend , I've done a 180 and completely changed my opinion . While I don't think it's one of the greatest horror movies ever made or even the best thing Fulci did , Zombi 2 accomplishes what it's intended to do ? create a sense of real horror in the viewer . Zombi 2 has some of the most undeniable atmosphere I've seen . The atmosphere hangs on everything like the humidity of the movie's setting . There is a real sense of dread running throughout the movie that only grows with each passing frame . It's the kind of movie that you can feel deep down in your gut , twisting your insides with unrelenting horror . This is what a good horror movie is supposed to do ? keep you on the edge of your seat , drawing you into the film , and making you want to look away at the same time . Very nicely done , Mr . Fulci ! So what affected me this time that didn't the first time I watched Zombi 2 ? I could give several answers , but I'll limit this to two key areas where this movie really excels . First , the special effects , as low-budget as they are , work almost flawlessly . I've always thought that for the make-up in something like Zombi 2 , cheap effects generally work better than state-of-the-art CGI type effects . There's just something about seeing actual , real , physical hunks of flesh being ripped off of a victim or a zombie decomposing in front of your eyes . It has weight and substance ? something lacking in modern day over-bloated special effects . The second area where Zombi 2 really works is the score . Every note and every sound fits perfectly with the on-screen action . The music enhances the film's mood to perfection . Feelings of horror and terror on the part of the viewer are enhanced by the score . It's easily one of the most effective I've seen recently .
An ape with wings ?	As far as the story is concerned , " Screaming Wings " is one of the best episodes I've seen so far . In this episode , Urko has acquired an operational , vintage , WWII airplane . Jeff , Bill , and Judy realize that with an airplane , the humanoids do not stand a chance . They've got to steal Urko's plane and do so before his big unveiling . This is a really interesting episode . It includes lots of action ( that the animation is unfortunately unable to keep up with ) , some suspense , and a nice bit of comedy at the end . " Screaming Wings " is also a very PC episode in that Judy finally gets the chance to shine . My only complaint ( beside the ever worsening animation ) is how readily Urko is to accept the plane and his willingness to use it . What I mean is that the plane obviously came from an advanced civilization that existed prior to the apes . Such a notion in the ape world would be considered heresy . I don't care what military advantage the plane might have given the apes ? they would have destroyed it for going against their beliefs .
The rating for The Space Children is as puzzling to me as any I've run across	I've seen a lot of weird things on IMDb , but the rating for The Space Children is as puzzling to me as any I've run across . 2 . 1 ? ! ? ! I couldn't disagree any more . 2 . 1 is getting close to Manos territory . The Space Children may not be the best movie I've ever seen , but it doesn't deserve a 2 . 1 . Why the low rating ? I blame MST3K . I enjoy the show , but as I've argued any number of times , some of the movies that they lampooned didn't deserve it . Take a look at the reviews on IMDb . You can split them into two wildly divergent groups ? those users who appear to only know The Space Children because of MST3K and those who have seen it on its own . The comments from the MST3K crowd always seem to mention Uncle Fester ( Jackie Coogan ) in a bathing suit as if it's one of the most important moments in the film . In contrast , many of the comments from non-MST3K viewers reminisce about seeing The Space Children during their childhood . Maybe it's not just an MST3K thing but an overall generational thing as well . Whatever , I tend to side with those who enjoy the movie for what it is . And what is it ? The Space Children is a nice little cautionary 50s sci-fi film that speaks to the dangers of nuclear proliferation . Jack Arnold , one of the best genre directors of the 50s , does his usual workmanlike job with the movie . It's not flashy , but it certainly looks good . The Space Children obviously was made on a limited budget . As a result , the special effects are also limited and Arnold focuses more on the people . A lot of what happens is implied . But that's not necessarily a weakness . Too often , low-budget sci-fi films from this period look ridiculous because of the desire for elaborate special effects ( i . e . monster and aliens ) that outstripped the funding it would require . The acting , while not outstanding , is solid . Even the kids , who can be annoying at times in this kind of movie , come off looking pretty good . The cast will be familiar to many who grew up watching television in the 60s . Overall I've got no big complaints with The Space Children . Not a bad way to spend just over an hour .
Honestly , I wasn't expecting to enjoy it this much	Sergio ( Richard Johnson ) responds to a " Help Wanted " ad for a librarian that seems to have been written just for him . When he arrives at the rambling villa , he meets an old woman who has been following him . At first , he writes her off as a nutty old broad and wants nothing to do with her or her job . But then he meets the old woman's daughter , Aura ( Rosanna Schiaffino ) , and decides the job might have a few more perks than he at first imagined . But is Aura for real and to what lengths will he go to get her . The Witch is a very slow moving , but incredibly intriguing film . The movie takes its time in building the suspense and ultimate horror . And while many of the plot points and twists along the way are surely obvious to most anyone , the fun is watching these plot points and twists unfold . I generally don't put much emphasis on things like this , but the relationship Sergio and Aura is as erotic as I've seen . The passion is all but palatable . And when Aura disappears , it's easy to feel Sergio's pain . The final scenes present a more than satisfying conclusion to the film . Although most viewers will have guessed that the old woman and Aura are really one and the same , the whole notion and the way it's presented in The Witch makes for a nice ending . The acting in The Witch is easily its highpoint . Richard Johnson is outstanding as the love-stricken librarian slowly going insane . As for Rosanna Schiaffino , I don't know where these Italian producers found these incredible women . It's not a stretch of the imagination to believe Schiaffino could force any man to fall for her . Finally , Gian Maria Volonte is tremendous as Aura's former lover . I've only seen Volonte in his crazed , over-the-top roles in Spaghetti Western roles , so it was a nice to see him in a more subdued , yet just as crazed , role . In the end , if you're a fan of Italian horror , The Witch is definitely worth seeking out .
Worth a look	- In the future , murder is legal ? as long as you follow the rules . Killers and victims compete against one another for cash prizes . Once you have survived being either a killer or victim ten times , you win $1 million . The trouble arises when the pair fall in love . - Marcello Mastroianni and Ursila Andress star as a killer and victim pitted against one another . I've never thought much of Andress as an actress and this movie does nothing to change that opinion . - The most memorable scene is the first kill of the movie . An unknown killer chases Andress into some sort of nightclub / restaurant . When he enters , he doesn't recognize her because she is performing in a costume with a different hair color . As she dances in front of the killer , she lets loose with the machine gun bikini top . As Austin Powers would say , Machine Gun Jomblies .
" When I'm broke , I press my pants . "	In the world of the film noir , His Kind of Woman is something completely different from what I've become accustomed to . Some would argue that it's not even noir , but some sort of crime / adventure / comedy amalgamation . To me , it's definitely noir . . . with a twist . His Kind of Woman features three distinct acts . The first is the hard-boiled , loner with issues , dark noir you might expect . We meet Robert Mitchum , see him drink milk ( that's right ? milk ) at a shady looking bar , and watch as he gets his brains beat in after returning home . End of Act 1 . Things start to lighten up as soon as soon as Jane Russell enters the picture . Not really a comedy , the 2nd act instead reminds me of some sort of perverse Ten Little Indians where a diverse group of people seem to have been summoned together for reasons unknown . And it's quite the collection of characters ? Mitchum as the tough as nails gambler , Russell the wannabe gold-digger , Vincent Price as the self-congratulatory actor , Jim Backus the gambler looking to take advantage of a young woman , and the assorted hoods , federal agents , and innocents . Act 3 is something different altogether . It features a bizarre contrast between Mitchum taking the beating of a lifetime and Price hamming it up complete with a cape and lines from Shakespeare . Watching Price take charge of a Mexican police force is absolutely hysterical . Even odder is the fact that the movie's leading lady spends most of this time locked in a closet . This unusual mix of film styles and genres may put off some , but the whole thing works for me .
" Feline , not canine . "	The Spider Woman is another fun and enjoyable outing for Sherlock Holmes and his sidekick Dr . Watson . In this one , Holmes investigates a series of murders that the police have labeled suicides . He quickly determines the connection the men have with one another and surmises the murders are being committed by an unknown woman that he calls a Female Moriarty . But she's ready for Holmes and has a number of tricks up her sleeve . Can Holmes escape her multitude of traps and bring this feminine menace to justice ? It's always a joy to watch Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce do their thing . They seemed to work off of each other so effortlessly and do so in The Spider Woman . Gale Sondergaard is excellent as the film's title character . She proves to be quite the match for Holmes . The verbal sparring match the pair has in a couple of scenes as each line and look has a double and deep meaning is perfect . The dialogue in these scenes is as well written as any I've yet run across in a Sherlock Holmes film . Bruce gets a chance to shine as well in a couple of scenes in The Spider Woman . Watching Watson pull on the beard of a postman while calling him names because he thinks its Holmes in disguise is very funny and very well done . But the best may be the scene where Watson very nearly kills Holmes with a rifle at a carnival game . It's a moment that stands out to me as a highlight of the entire series . Overall , The Spider Woman is a nice entry in the Sherlock Holmes ' series . I'm glad I finally had the chance to check it out .
Culp and Falk are great together	- When the owner of a football team is found dead in his pool , it looks like an accident . That is until Columbo starts poking around . He quickly latches on to the man who runs the team , Paul Hanlon ( Robert Culp ) , as the primary suspect . But how could Hanlon have committed the murder ? He was at the ballgame at the time it was committed . - The best thing about this The Most Crucial Game is the interaction between Robert Culp and Peter Falk . Culp is great as the suspect who grows more weary of Columbo's continual antics . There are a couple of scenes where Culp looks like he's really ready to blow a fuse . In contract , Falk's Columbo is calm , cool , and collected . Great stuff . - The actual murder is also a thing of genius . Using a block of ice to bash someone in the head while in a swimming pool is a masterful idea . The intended victim is dead and there is no murder weapon . - The weakest point of The Most Crucial Game is unfortunately the ending . It's rather poorly handled . It's almost as if the writers couldn't come up with a good way to end it . The solution is fine , it's just that the revelation of the solution seems very awkward .
So much more than Brooke Shields ' first movie	- A little girl is waiting in line to receive her first communion . Suddenly , she is grabbed from behind and murdered . All of the evidence seems to point toward the girl's sister , Alice . Next , Alice's Aunt is attacked in the stairwell of her apartment building . Again , the suspicion falls on Alice . Alice's parents have little choice - they commit her to a psychiatric hospital . Will this stop the killings ? - Alice , Sweet Alice is an American style giallo . The identity of the killer is hidden behind a yellow raincoat and mask . In this kind of movie , I like to play along and try to guess who the killer is . When I'm wrong ( which is the usual case ) , at least the killer turns out to be someone I had suspected at some point during the movie . When the killer is finally revealed in Alice , Sweet Alice , I must say that it was a total shock to me . The only problem with the revelation of the killer is that it comes a little too early . The suspense that the director has worked at building is dampened severely once we know who the killer is . - Paula E . Shepherd , in her first ever movie role , plays Alice . Seldom do you see someone with so little experience play a role so flawlessly . She is so deliciously evil as the crazed Alice . It's a shame she didn't make more of these kind of movies . - Unfortunately , Alice , Sweet Alice is best known as the first movie in which Brooke Shields appeared . It's a shame because the movie is so much more than that .
A whole lot of fun and my new favorite Naschy film	Finally ! I've been searching and searching for a Paul Naschy film that appeals to me . And I'm so happy to have discovered one . After sitting through some less than stellar offerings like Vengeance of the Zombies and Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf , I've finally found a winner . I won't go so far as to proclaim it as one of the best horror movies I've ever seen , but Frankenstein's Bloody Terror is a whole lot of fun and easily the best Naschy film I've so far run across . To begin with , Frankenstein's Bloody Terror has absolutely nothing to do with either the good doctor or his creation . It seems that an American distributor was promised a Frankenstein movie , but was given a werewolf film instead . Undaunted , the distributor decided to stick with the Frankenstein name he probably had already worked into advertising . Thus Frankenstein's Bloody Terror becomes a werewolf / vampire slugfest . Frankenstein's Bloody Terror is something of a historical movie for horror fans . It marks the first time Naschy would play Waldemar Daninsky and his cursed alter-ego that Naschy turned into something of a cottage industry . In this one , the residents of a small village blame a series of deaths on wolves . Daninsky joins a hunting party and is bitten , not by a wolf , but by a werewolf before he is able to subdue the creature . It's not long before Daninsky goes through a strange and painful metamorphosis that turns him into a snarling beast himself . A friend , looking to help Daninsky , turns to a doctor who has written extensively on the subject . But it turns out that this is no ordinary " mad " doctor . It seems the doctor and his wife are in reality blood sucking vampires . Before you know it , they've got Daninsky chained to a wall while they prey on his friends . Can Daninsky free himself and save those dear to him ? And if he does save his friends from the vampires , who's going to save them from him ? As I said in my opening , Frankenstein's Bloody Terror is a lot of fun . It's hard not to have a good time with the over-the-top storyline and action . The movie actually gives you two werewolves for the price of one . Their battle is a blast and a real highlight of the movie for me . This monster free-for-all is reminiscent of some of Universal's monster mashes from the 40s , only a little more graphic in its presentation . The film has a marvelous Hammer-esquire look to it with vivid colors and period sets . The use of colored gels is a nice touch to the lighting in many scenes . I really liked Naschy's werewolf make-up . It's a little more " wild " than it would be in latter Daninsky films . The supporting cast is good with Rosanna Yanni as a gypsy woman being the most well known . If you're looking for a sophisticated sort of horror movie with a deep , philosophical meaning that sticks with you long after it ends , Frankenstein's Bloody Terror is probably not the movie you're looking for . But if you're just looking to be entertained and have a good time , it's hard to go wrong with Frankenstein's Bloody Terror . Now that I've found a Naschy film I enjoy , I'm even more excited to discover the rest of his work .
" My perfect body . . . in the poisonous clutches of The Lover Of Death ! "	- Seeking locations to use for photographs for a series of horror books , a group stumbles on what they believe to be a deserted castle . The castle happens to have been the former home of The Crimson Executioner ? a centuries old murderer who was himself put to death in his own castle , but not before putting a curse on anyone who enters his castle . Of course , the castle isn't deserted , but instead is the home of a retired actor seeking solitude . He allows the group to spend one night and get as many photos as they can . His one request - don't go into the dungeon . Naturally , our group of photographers and models immediately make a beeline for the lower levels of the castle and discover an array of torture devices . The devices , it seems , will make good props for their photos . But something goes wrong and one of the male models is killed by falling spikes . Was it an accident or is there a murderer in the castle ? It's not long before other members of the group begin to disappear . Has The Crimson Executioner come back to make good on his threat ? - I honestly don't know when I've had this much fun watching a movie . In general , I hate the term " so bad it's good " . But in this case , I think it applies like nowhere else . Bloody Pit of Horror has most of the trappings that are present in movies I look for ? a big creepy castle , a dungeon , torture devices , scantily clad women , and a bizarre madman bent on killing everyone . What the movie lacks , however , is effective atmosphere and believability . But , if you don't take things too seriously , it's a nice little ride . - The madman is played by the one time husband of Jayne Mansfield , Mickey Hargitay . Hargitay is one of those Mr . Universe types . While he may not be much of an actor , he is wonderful as The Crimson Executioner . There have been killers in other movies who enjoy their " work " , but none can match the enthusiasm of The Crimson Executioner . Toward the end of the movie , he traps everyone who is still alive in his torture chamber . Watching him literally run and jump from one torture device to the next is like watching a kid on Christmas morning . He actually has an orgasmic look on his face as he puts one of his victims on the rack . And his " costume " is just too much . He wears red tights , a red hood , a black leather belt , and a black mask that covers his eyes . - Another thing to keep an eye ( or ear ) on is the dialogue . The Crimson Executioner has some of the " best " lines I've ever heard . He goes on and on about how perfect his body is . And , how he must kill the people who have come into his castle to preserve the purity of his body . My favorite of these monologues takes place in front of a mirror . As The Crimson Executioner applies a liberal coating of oil to his chest he says , " Mankind is made up of inferior creatures , spiritually and physically deformed , who would have corrupted the harmony of my perfect body . " You just don't hear lines like that in just any old movie - it takes something special like Bloody Pit of Horror - There are so many other points of the movie I would like to write about , but they really must be seen to be believed . For example , The Crimson Executioner has a group of henchmen that dress in matching outfits . It's as if they're appearing on the 1960s Batman television program . Another example , the reaction of the crew after one of their co-workers is killed . Do they immediately leave the castle like normal people would ? No - they decide to finish their work in the castle for extra money and call the police in the morning . Yet another example , the room with the giant spider web , mechanical spider , and arrows that shoot from the wall is simply sublime . I could go on for days .
Not like any teacher I ever had	I can't believe how much fun I had watching The Teacher . They don't make ' em like this anymore . Having recently graduated from high school , 18 year-old Sean ( Jay North ) has one last summer at home before he heads to college . He discovers quite the novel way to spend his time ? he begins having an affair with his 28 year-old blond knock-out of a teacher , Diane Marshall ( Angel Tompkins ) . Things would be great for the couple if it weren't for a crazed Vietnam veteran named Ralph ( Anthony James ) who not only has the hots for Diane , but also blames Sean for his brother's death . Sean's had enough and decides to confront Ralph ? whatever the consequences . The Teacher is 1970s sleazy , grimy , soft-core film-making at its best . Writer / director Howard Avedis handles the plot with the casual style you would expect in the free-love 70s when 18 year-olds were treated like adults . The acting is surprisingly strong . Jay North and Angel Tompkins give much better performances than I would have expected . Tompkins is a real revelation to me and I look forward to discovering more of her work . Veteran character actor Anthony James literally steals every scene in which he appears . Avedis mixes in just enough sex , sleaze , and thrills to keep the whole thing interesting throughout . Finally , I've read complaints on the internet about the films ending . Well , I loved it . It really caught me off guard . Sure , it's as melodramatic and , ultimately , cheesy as they come - but that's what works for me . I wouldn't want The Teacher to have ended any other way .
Not a bad example of what I'm going to call a lesser SW	Sartana blows into town just after a local prospector , Joe Benson , has been murdered . Suddenly , there seems to be no shortage of buyers for the old man's land that most describe as nothing more than a pile of worthless sand . The two men who seem to want the land the most are the local crooked banker and the Chinese gambling parlor owner . But why ? With Sartan's help , Benson's niece and heir plays the two potential buyers against each other looking to get the most for the land . Will she succeed ? The only thing that's certain is that Sartana's going to do whatever he cam to make sure he comes out ahead . Certainly not what I would call a top of the line Spaghetti Western , Have a Good Funeral , My Friend . . . Sartana Will Pay ( let's shorten that to Have a Good Funeral for the rest of this comment ) is still an enjoyable enough installment in the Sartana series . Gianni Garko is back as Sartana . He's excellent in the role and provides the character with just the right amount of mystery to throw doubt on his motivations . Even among the super human feats of other SW heroes , Sartana's abilities with a gun , a deck of cards , or being in the right place at the right time are unmatched . The supporting cast features a number of familiar faces ? Helga Line and Franco Ressel being chief among them . But I was most impressed with Daniela Giordano and George Wang - the latter seemingly enjoying himself as much as anyone . Giuliano Carnimeo's direction is more workmanlike than artistic , though he does provide a visual flourish or two as Have a Good Funeral progresses . The plot has enough twists and turns to keep things interesting . And even thought the man behind the killings is easy to spot for anyone who's seen enough of these movies , it's still fun to watch Sartana figure things out . Finally , Bruno Nicolai's score is definitely a high point of the film , even if it is eerily reminiscent of some of his other work . Overall , not a bad example of what I'm going to call a lesser SW . Trust me , you could do a whole lot worse .
" If you do not leave this house in the next minute , I will kill you ! "	I'm very impressed with Homicidal . William Castle accomplishes more with the obviously small budget he had to work with in Homicidal that a lot of filmmakers could have with ten-times the money . Homicidal is Castle's rather obvious attempt to cash-in on the success of Psycho , released the year before . And , he's mostly successful . The surprising thing is that Castle is actually able to outdo Hitchcock in some areas . Take the opening as an example . I can honestly say that I enjoyed the first 15 minutes of Homicidal more than anything in Psycho . This may be surprising to some and downright blasphemous to others , but I'm just being honest . It's a quirky beginning with some very unexpected violence . The ending of the film is almost as good . Castle is actually able to build some nice tension in the film's finale . You know there's a killer in the house and you know who it is , but you also know what they're capable of and you're not sure when the killer will strike . Anyone who has seen more than three movies will have guessed the twist before it actually reveals itself , but that hardly matters . It's how the twist is pulled-off that's important . I couldn't do the film justice without saying hats off to Jean Arliss ( it's actually Joan Marshall ) for her work in Homicidal . She's completely over-the-top in her madness but never veers too far into camp . It's an excellent performance .
A weak Martino is still a good movie	- Torso may not be the best giallo that Sergio Martino ever made , but I'll argue that it has some of the most intense moments found in any of his films . The last 30 minutes or so are as edge-of-your-seat , tension filled as you'll see . The movie kicks into high gear when Jane ( Suzy Kendall ) wakes-up only to find all of her friends slaughtered . But the nightmare doesn't end there . The killer is still in the house , taking his own sweet time to dismember the bodies . Jane hides just inches away from the killer . This is incredible stuff . - It's too bad the rest of the movie isn't as good as the finale . Sure , there are some nice scenes - the girl being stalked though the swamp - but these moments can't compare with Jane's plight at the end . The first two-thirds of the movie are reasonably entertaining , just not the best you'll see from Martino .
Bava and Edwige : A Winning Combination	- Plot : ( from IMDb ) George Stark is a wealthy industrialist who invites five business friends of his to his remote Mediterranean island for a weekend of relaxation and business when he introduces them to Professor Farrell , a brilliant chemist who gives investment ideas to the group . But against Farrell's wishes , the group goes behind each other's back to obtain information on Farrell's chemistry ideas and soon the guests and residents start turning up dead one by one as Stark and Farrell must rally the group together to determine the identity of the killer ( or killers ) despite nobody trusting anyone . - Most people I know would list Five Dolls for an August Moon as among their least favorite film that Mario Bava made . Bava himself considered it his worst ( I guess Bava never had the misfortune of watching his movie Dr . Goldfoot and the Girl Bombs ) . I , however , do not agree . It has a funky , late 60s / early 70s feel to it that I just love . Everything about the movie is the absolute height of fashion from that period . The clothes , the people , the house , the music , the attitudes , etc . can best be described as " groovy " . - Those who like a lot of gore with their killings may be disappointed by all of the off-screen murders . The aftermath of a couple , however , are fairly gruesome . But those with a morbid sense of humor will get a kick out of watching the bodies pile-up in the freezer . Just imagine the sight of five or six bodies wrapped in plastic being placed on meat hooks one at a time in a freezer while accompanied by some less than appropriate music . I just love it . Another plus for Five Dolls for an August Moon is the presence of Edwige Fenech . Similar to what I stated when writing about The Case of the Bloody Iris , Edwige makes any movie a better movie . - While this movie may not be for everyone , if you're a fan of Bava , Edwige , or funky 70s movies , you might find something here to enjoy .
How do you take your Coffy ?	- Pam Grier is the undisputed queen of the 70s Blaxplotation films . In Coffy , she's a woman who wants to avenge her sisters overdose on some bad dope . Posing as a prostitute , she infiltrates the drug gang and starts kicking butt . Coffy is a little more serious in tone that some of the Grier's other films like Foxy Brown and , because of that , I don't enjoy it as much . Don't get me wrong - it's over-the-top , just not over-the-top enough . The highlight of the movie has to be the fight scene between Grier and some of the other " ladies " . It's a food-fight free-for-all with salad and punch flying everywhere . Sid Haig is also on hand to play one of the baddies . Good stuff .
A very satisfying film	Dr . Campbell is a sick man . Just before he dies , he gives a bottle of tablets to Dr . Paul Beecher ( Paul Beal ) . Quite by accident , Paul takes one of the pills thinking it's his migraine medication . The pills were part of Dr . Campbell's work on mind regression to a more primitive state and were made from the blood of the vampire bat . Paul immediately becomes addicted to the pills and begins taking one each night . Coinciding with Paul addiction , people in town begin dying mystery deaths . Each has strange bite marks on their necks . Paul begins to suspect himself , but surely Paul's suspicions can't be true . Are the pills turning him into some kind of vampire ? While I don't think it's quite as good as his later film The Return of Dracula , Paul Landres ' The Vampire is still a solid little horror film that takes much of the existing vampire mythology and stands it on its head . For example , the creature in The Vampire isn't the suave , cape-wearing , seducer that we've all become familiar with over the years . Here , the creature is a primitive being that seeks blood for survival . It is more bat-like in appearance and action . I'm not saying that one interpretation is better than the other , I just appreciate the difference . There's a lot to like about The Vampire . I love the way the film introduces an element of horror into an otherwise safe and comfortable Leave It to Beaver type setting . The contrast is interesting . And I for one appreciate the make-up effects . I realize they were done " on the cheap " , but I found them very eerie . Landres direction is solid . He keeps things interesting without a lapse during the movies runtime . But the area I find the most enjoyable in The Vampire is the acting . Everyone involved gives a performance far better than you would expect from a film of this type . As others have noted , Paul Beal gives real outstanding first-rate performance . Overall , The Vampire is a very satisfying film . I look forward to revisiting it for years to come .
A worthy remake	I've been a fan of the original The Hills Have Eyes since I first saw it during a midnight showing while in college . I had my doubts about the remake , but as I enjoyed Aja's High Tension more than I probably should have , I at least felt the film was in good hands . I still enjoy the 1977 version more , but my faith in Aja as an up and coming player in horror was not misplaced . The film is very faithful to the plot Craven used in 1977 - a family traveling cross country finds themselves stranded in the desert and under attack from a mutant family living in the nearby hills . There are a few significant changes ( the crater full of abandoned vehicles and the nuclear test city ) probably due more than anything to a much larger budget , but these changes actually add even more interest and variety to the script . There's a lot here to enjoy . The acting is great and definitely an improvement over the first film . I especially enjoyed Dan Byrd and Aaron Stanford's performances over the same characters from 1977 . The new film is much more graphic than the first film . Aja doesn't skimp when it comes to showing the blood and gore . Aja has done his best to keep the brutality and savagery from the first film in his remake . And , for the most part , he has succeeded . One complaint I've already read on the internet is the movie is too slow . I completely disagree with that statement . I enjoyed the pacing throughout the film . The Hills Have Eyes may start off slow , but it builds to finale full of violence . But there are a few areas where I had problems with the film . One thing that bothered me was the treatment of the mutant family . They never felt like real characters as there was virtually no character development within the mutant family . They are just there . I was also bothered by some technical aspects involving camera work and editing . The movies features what I consider to be way too many shots filmed with a hand-held camera and edited in a rapid , MTV style . Maybe I'm just getting old , but there were several moments during the film where I wanted to scream at Aja , " Be still and let me see what's going on " . It was too much for me . Also , I thought the exposition was handled rather clumsily . The preaching like exposition given by the immobile mutant felt forced . Finally , and I realize many will disagree , I enjoy the low-budget look of the original . The look helped to give the movie a feeling that anything could happen . In contrast , Aja's film is much more polished looking . I won't go so far as to call it over-produced , but the look of the movie doesn't add as much atmosphere as the lower budget look . In the end , while I did have problems with certain aspects of the film , overall The Hills Have Eyes is a solid horror film . Fans of the original should be able to find something here to enjoy that doesn't trample all over their memories of the first film .
A man and his pet dinosaur	Dr . Benton Quest is deep in the jungle in search of a rare metal that might prove beneficial to the space program when he runs into a hysterical native who will only repeat the word , " Turu " . The Quest Gang accompanies the frightened man and discover a mountain full of the metal they seek guarded by a crazed man in a wheelchair and his giant , flying dinosaur . Overall , Turu the Terrible is a fairly enjoyable episode . Turu actually poses a real threat to the Quests . In one scene , the giant pterodactyl-like dinosaur gets hold of Dr . Quest and almost takes him into its lair . In another scene , the boat the Quests are using sustains heavy damage after an attack . The ending is something of a let-down , however . as we never discover who the old man is or anything else about him . There are also a couple of moments that make me laugh every time I see them . The first is the sight of Race carrying that bazooka while flying with his jet pack . He carries it like it weighs no more than a loaf of bread . And I hope he never intended to fire the thing while flying . The kick while floating in mid-air would knock him clear out of the jungle . The second thing I get a chuckle out of is the image of the wheelchair-bound old man leading his pet dinosaur to its cage . Yeah , right .
Very entertaining beginning to the Falcon series	The Gay Falcon , the first movie in the Falcon series , finds the Falcon ( George Sanders ) ready to give up both women and detective work at the request of his fianc . This promise , however , doesn't last long as a pretty woman with a story of stolen jewelry soon walks into his life . In no time at all , the Falcon is up to his elbows in murder and hiding out from the police . The only way to clear his name is to find the real killer . This may have been George Sanders first time out in the role of the Falcon , but he wears the role with the familiarity of a favorite old sweater . I would argue , however , that his Saint series ( which ended just prior to the start of the Falcon series ) was so similar to the Falcon that it was hardly a stretch for Sanders . Regardless , Sanders makes everything seem so effortless and natural . He is joined by an especially strong cast . Gladys Jenkins , Edward Brophy , and Arthur Shields should be familiar to any fan of classic B-fare . Oddly though , all are upstaged by the strong performance of Nina Vale who surprisingly only appeared in two other films . I can't believe she didn't do more . She's quite good and imminently watchable . As for the movie , none of the Falcon movies are particularly deep affairs and The Gay Falcon is no different . It's light , breezy entertainment . The 1940s style of comedy / mystery films has always appealed to me and The Gay Falcon is a nice example . The comedy elements hit their mark and are , at their worst , amusing . Nothing to make you fall in the floor with laughter , just good , light-hearted fun . The mystery elements in the movie also work and are sufficiently convoluted to make it interesting throughout . And it helps that the final solution to the mystery at least makes sense and is ultimately satisfying . Director Irving Reis keeps things moving at an entertaining pace with no time for a wasted scene in the movie's relative short 67 minute runtime . Overall , it's a solid effort .
Predictable , but Beautiful	- Koma starts with a bang - an unknown girl awakens in a tub full of ice . Written on the wall above her head , she reads the words " Call the police or you'll die " . As she steps from the tub , there is an obvious pain in her side . When she examines the area with her hand , she discovers that she is bleeding from a 9 inch gash . What's not so obvious is that one of her kidneys has been stolen . - Unfortunately , the movie has trouble maintaining the momentum of the fantastic start . Koma quickly becomes an all too familiar thriller . Plot points and twists become so obvious they slap you in the face . It's too easy to see where the story is headed . - Don't misunderstand , I enjoyed the movie quite a bit . Like several of the other recent Asian films I've seen , Koma is very well made . The cinematography , set design , art direction , and most every other technical aspect is near flawless . And , while much of the story is predictable , I still found a lot of entertainment and I never found myself getting bored . Instead , I was looking forward to what was coming next . But Koma's biggest asset is the cast . The two female leads are exceptional . Both looked and played their parts to perfection . So , I wasn't at all surprised to read that Karena Lam received a Hong Kong Film Award nomination for her work in Koma . I'm just surprised she didn't win . - Finally , Koma taught me a lesson that I've passed on to my wife - If you're going to get into an Axe vs . Scalpel fight , wear sensible shoes .
A Nice Ride	- The basic premise of Cannonball has been done several times - a diverse group of drivers compete in a cross-country race where anything goes . Sound familiar ? Hal Nedham ripped the guts out of Cannonball for his Cannonball Run made five years later . The difference , though , is that while Cannonball is often funny with some great action , Cannonball Run is often too over-the-top and unwatchable . It's too bad that Bartel's movie isn't as well known as Nedham's . While it will never be confused with Citizen Kane , Cannonball is a thrill-a-minute , cheese-filled good time . - Bartel's direction is one of the highlights of the movie . You would think that a 90 + minute movie of watching cars race might get boring . It's not . Bartel keeps things moving and there's never a dull moment . Bartel does a great job of mixing race action , comedy , fight scenes , and a little drama to create a well-balanced , enjoyable movie . - As far as acting goes , David Carradine naturally stands out . He's a car driving , butt kicking machine . Carradine is able to add a little authenticity to the movie by doing a lot of his own driving . There are a couple of spinouts where you can actually see that it's Carradine sitting behind the wheel . - My biggest complaint with Cannonball involves the spectacular pile-up at the end of the movie . It gets off to a good start with cars plowing into each other followed by explosion after explosion . The problem is that it goes on for so long that it started to have a morbid feel to it . It bothered me that , as a viewer , I could only assume that there were people supposedly driving those cars that were bursting into flames and I didn't see any survivors . I can only assume that everyone was burned to a crisp . Sure it's a little picky , but it bothered me .
" When they met . . . it was murder ! "	If you've read some of my other user comments , you'll quickly discover that Hart to Hart isn't the kind of thing I usually go for . But , surprisingly , the show works for me . A loving relationship , plenty of money , a wonderful house , nice cars , and a life filled with adventure and mystery ? this is what has always drawn me to Hart to Hart . At the heart of Hart to Hart is its two leads ? Robert Wagner and Stefanie Powers as Johnathan and Jennifer Hart . Has there ever been a more perfect television couple ? It's easy to see that they were longtime friends in real life before the show started . They seem so natural together . Both are also accomplished actors and are capable of making even the most ridiculous of situations believable . And Lionel Stander as the butler , chauffeur , handyman , cook , and general do everything guy , Max , is also a real asset . Like Wagner and Powers , he came to the series with a long resume . It's a solid cast . Looking back at some of the episodes , they may seem incredibly corny to those more accustomed to modern TV . Two people just don't find themselves in these kinds of predicaments week after week . One week you're running from drug smugglers , the next week your house is completely emptied by thieves , and the next you're recovering a priceless antique for a Buddhist temple . I could live a lifetime and never have one episode worth of the adventure the Harts experienced . And , you know what ? ? it's this implausibility that really makes the show work for me . I enjoy it because it is unrealistic and fanciful . Life is tough enough without having reality rear its ugly head disguised as entertainment on television . I love to turn on something like Hart to Hart ( or Charlie's Angels or Wonder Woman or Banacek or whatever show you can name form this period ) and be entertained , and , even for a brief moment , forget about the real problems we all face . I don't find today's reality-based television dramas entertaining ? they're depressing to me .
" We are never going into the woods again ! "	A group of six young people find themselves stranded in the mountains of West Virginia . When four members of the group leave to find either help or a phone they stumble upon a cabin that at first appears to be deserted . But what they find in the cabin proves that it is actually inhabited and not the place they want to be when the owners return home . Just as they are making their exit , a truck pulls to the front of the house and three inbred mountain men enter the house carrying the dead , butchered bodies of their friends with them . What Works : - Inbred Hillbillies . Movies with backwoods murderous inbred hillbillies have always fascinated me . Some of my favorite movies ( The Hills Have Eyes , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , The Final Terror , etc . ) feature this kind of character . These characters are frightening because you know they're based in reality . There really are people out there who look and , to a lesser extent , act like this . As a bonus , the make-up used on Three Finger , Saw-Tooth , and One-Eye is excellent . It's another argument in favor of traditional quality latex make-up . - No Jokes . Other than a few bits of comedy that fit within the framework of the plot , Wrong Turn is played straight . Most movies made today with this many horror clichs would turn into one big self-referential jokefest . I'm glad Schmidt avoided going down this road . There is no attempt to go out of the way to create comedy or fill the movie with inappropriate one-liners that only serve to ruin mood and atmosphere . - Scenes of Violence . I found many of the scenes of violence particularly well done . These inbred hillbillies are brutal and savage . They care not for human life . Their methods of killing are primitive but effective . One of my favorite scenes involves a bow , an arrow , and human eye . Nice ! What Doesn't Work : - It's Not West Virginia . My wife is from West Virginia and I've been there any number of times . I could tell almost immediately that the film wasn't actually made in West Virginia . I wasn't surprised to discover that the actual location was Ontario , Canada . If you're going to film a movie that is set in West Virginia , why not film it in West Virginia ? This just bugged me throughout the entire movie . - Why doesn't Eliza die ? With the exception of Eliza Dushku's character , every other victim the inbreeds run across is immediately slaughtered . So why did they ( or better yet , why does the script ) treat Eliza differently ? Why is she spared long enough to be rescued ? Obviously I know the answer , but it's an inconsistency in Wrong Turn that I didn't appreciate . Wrong Turn is a nice throwback to the 70s movies I grew up with . It's vicious , raw , brutal , and a lot of fun . In short , it's my kind of horror movie . Just thinking about the movie should make my family's annual October camping trip to West Virginia a more interesting .
Sabato's good , but he's no Milian	Salvatore Cangemi ( Antonio Sabato ) is the head of an Italian crime family and the biggest pimp in Milan . When a French mobster wants to use Cangemi's girls to traffic his drugs , Cangemi refuses . The Frenchman doesn't take this lightly and moves in on the Milan territory by recruiting some of Cangemi's girls behind his back . It's not long before the two men and their entire organizations are involved in an all out gang war for control of Milan . Because Gang War in Milan was directed by Umberto Lenzi , it's hard not to make comparisons with Lenzi's Almost Human . The problem is that if you've seen Almost Human , Gang War in Milan all but pales in comparison . Almost Human is , at least to me , something of a masterpiece of the genre . Lenzi got it right with the over-the-top , uber-violence . The level of action and violence in Gang War in Milan doesn't come close to that found in Almost Human . Furthermore , if you compare Antonio Sabato in Gang War in Milan with Tomas Milian in Almost Human , Milian easily comes out on top . Sabato is adequate in his role as the leader of the gang , but does not have the screen presence or magnetic personality of Milian . Even as Milian is committing some of the most heinous crimes imaginable , it's hard to dislike the man . Based on what I've written so far , it almost sounds like I don't care for Gang War in Milan ? and that's not the case . Gang War in Milan is a reasonably entertaining example of the Italian crime drama . It's far from being the worst film of this type I've seen . The story is compelling , the film looks good , and overall the acting is very nice . The different plots and schemes the French and Italian gangs carry out against each other are quite ingenious . I was especially fond of the French gang dressing like cops and arresting and holding hostage all of the prostitutes . Good stuff . Also , there are some nice plot twists toward the end of the film that I never saw coming that make for a very satisfying conclusion . And , as a real big plus , Gang War in Milan features Marissa Mell . I realize that I'm probably not being fair to Gang War in Milan because of my preference for Almost Human . If I had never seen that movie , I'm almost positive that my opinion of Gang War in Milan would be different .
Well worth the $2 . 99 I paid for it	Before his company will pay out , an insurance investigator ( Dennis O'Keefe ) arrives in a small town to look into an apparent suicide . But he immediately begins to suspect something's not quite right . No gun , no powder marks , no bullet , no coroner's report , and no sheriff's report seem to lead to no suicide . Was it suicide ? or was it something even more sinister ? It may not be the noir I was expecting , but Cover-Up is a nice little 40s style mystery . The plot kept me going up to the end . It's full of red herrings and I could have never guessed the outcome . Other than the It's a Wonderful Life style ending , I've got nothing to complain about . The cast is more than capable with Dennis O'Keefe , William Bendix , and Barbara Britton giving nice performances . I'm not all that familiar with Britton , but it's easy to see why she was a Revlon Girl for more than a decade . The cast also features Doro Merande who steals every scene in which she appears . I picked up the DVD on the budget Geneon label . If you don't mind a lack of extras ( and that includes the absence of a menu ) , it's not a bad deal for the money . The cover art is misleading . I have no idea what movie it was taken from , but it most certainly wasn't Cover-Up .
It's like a work of art come to life .	The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is , for me , a tale of two movies . On one hand , there's no denying the film's historical significance or amazing " look " . Instead of going into detail on the film's historical significance , I think that simply stating the fact that The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is a German horror film from 1920 pretty much sums it up . As for the " look " of the film , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is a beautiful nightmare . The twisted images are something to behold . It's like a work of art come to life . The sight of Conrad Veidt dressed in black , looking like a shadow that has taken on human characteristics , slinking down a hall on the way to his next victim is an image that stays with you . The set design is brilliant . The skewed shapes of ordinary objects like windows and doors and the use of paint to represent light and shadows is stunning . Filmmakers today could spend literally millions trying to create the " look " found in The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari and never achieve anything nearly as memorable . But , as I said , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is the tale of two movies . Once you get past the film's place in history and the stylized look , you're left with the plot . And this is where I have problems with the movie . As I've said any number of times , I ultimately watch movies for entertainment . It may seem shallow to some , but if I'm not entertained , I can't in good conscious rate a film highly just because of technical or some other achievement . As a vehicle for entertainment , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari let me down . I was never drawn into or felt engaged by the story . The plot is so overly simplistic that I found much of the goings on dull . Don't misunderstand . My problems with the film have nothing to do with it being a silent movie . It may sound clich , but some of my favorite movies ( The Unknown being at the top of the list ) are silent . It's unfortunate that the plot of The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is in no way as memorable as the " look " of the film .
One of A & C's better films	- Abbott and Costello ( A & C ) get mixed up with a gangster and become his sole heirs upon his death . The estate consists of an old roadside inn that may or may not be the hiding place for the gangster's money . But , there are a lot of other people who want to get their hands on that money - and some of them may be ghosts . - I have seen some people who claim that this is the best movie A & C made . While I don't necessarily agree with that , it's a solid effort . The mix of A & C , an old dark house , ghosts , gangsters , and a good supporting cast are a sure fire winner . - The supporting cast is stronger her than in many of the movies A & C made . On hand are Richard Carlson , Evelyn Ankers , and Marc Lawrence . But Joan Davis comes out looking the best . She's an actress who I've never really cared for , but in Hold That Ghost she makes the perfect companion for A & C . One of my favorite bits is the dance scene with her and Costello . Funny stuff .
A stylish Italian thriller full of blackmail and perversity	The Forbidden Photos of a Lady Above Suspicion ( let's shorten that to Forbidden Photos for the rest of this write-up ) is a stylish Italian thriller full of blackmail and perversity . Forbidden Photos would easily be among the best Gialli I've seen if it weren't for the lack of actual murders and other on-screen mayhem . To be so titillating , Forbidden Photos is in reality restrained , something you don't normally see in this genre . To be so restrained , it's amazing how the story held my attention throughout . And in the end , the convoluted plot and mystery all fit together quite nicely and it all makes sense . The cast is solid with good performances from Dagmar Lassander and Simon Andreu . But , as expected , Susan Scott steals every scene in which she appears . She never looked better or was she more mysterious than in Forbidden Photos . Finally , Forbidden Photos features an interesting score from Ennio Morricone . I went to bed last night with the main theme playing in my head . Other than the minimal extras , Blue Underground's new DVD is very nice . You just don't expect something so obscure ( I don't believe that Forbidden Photos was ever released in the U . S . in any form until now ) to look this good . From what my untrained eyes could see , the transfer looked flawless . Nice job !
Twisted and Fun	A group of young motorcycle thugs , getting their kicks by terrorizing their community ( what else would they do ) , discover that if someone commits suicide with the unwavering belief that they will come back , they will arise from the dead . And the coolest part is that once you're dead , you can't be killed again . But will it work and will they really be invincible ? IMDb lists Psychomania as a horror movie . And if you go into it thinking you're going to see a lot of creepy images and a bucket of gore , you would be mistaken and most probably disappointed . While there are certainly elements of horror to be found in Psychomania , it's really underrated black comedy that's much better than its 4 . 8 IMDb rating would indicate . Some of the set-pieces and moments in the film are so twisted and outrageous in their presentation that I actually found myself laughing out loud a few times . The variety of ways the gang members select to kill themselves are a hoot . My favorite is the guy who throws himself in the river . The acting is at least adequate and most of it's played straight which helps punctuate the absurdity of the situations . The only real " name " in the cast is an aging George Sanders who gives an incredibly witty performance . The biggest downside I see to Psychomania is the lack of direction the gang seems to have . You are immortal and no one can hurt you , but the best you can come up with is riding your motorcycles through a grocery store to terrorize old ladies . Surely there's something more sinister or , at least , profitable that you could be doing .
Will Opie get the girl ?	Hoover Niebold ( Ron Howard ) steals a race car to impress the girl of his dreams , Darlene ( Christopher Norris ) . It seems that Darlene has a thing for fast cars and the guys who drive them . Hoover sets off with Darlene , but the law is in hot pursuit . And in Hoover's case , the law comes in the form of his father , Sheriff Niebold ( Warren Kemmerling ) . Can Hoover evade his father and all of his friends , find enough gas , and not wreck his car all in the name of love ? I hadn't seen Eat My Dust since its initial release way back in 1976 . Back then , my brother and I somehow convinced my dad to take us to see the movie . He slept through the whole thing while we had a great time with all the car crashes and comedy bits thrown in . So did it hold up 32 years later ? You betcha ! I had a great time re-watching it tonight . Eat My Dust combines just the right amount of over-the-top car chase scenes , surprisingly effective comedy elements ( Dave Madden , aka Reuben Kincaid , is hysterical as Big Bubba Jones ) , an enjoyable mandolin-infused soundtrack , an appealing cast , snappy direction and cinematography , and some of the best looking hot pants and go-go boots I believe I've seen into one enjoyable package . I realize that Eat My Dust probably couldn't stand the light of a real critical appraisal , but I'm not a real critic . I watch movies for enjoyment and I enjoyed Eat My Dust . One thing that really surprised me was how much I got out of the plot . The relationship between Hoover and Darlene was actually very well done . I admit it , there were moments that tugged at my heart . Sounds silly for a Roger Corman produced car chase movie , doesn't it ? But you just really want to see a guy like Hoover get the girl . I don't use words like " sweet " very often to describe a movie , but that's what I thought about Hoover's feelings for Darlene . It made the ending that much more effective .
One of the better 80s slashers	- A " Dear John " letter is the impetus for a returning WWII G . I . to brutally murder his former girlfriend during a Spring Dance . 35 years later , the local college decides to bring the dance back . Once again , someone dressed in army fatigues is stalking a murdering the young women at the dance . - I hadn't seen The Prowler since it's initial theatrical run some 25 years ago . At that time , I thought it was a very good slasher . For the most part , it's held up rather well . It is easily one of the better of the slasher films from the early 80s . The killings are especially brutal and feature something that's not seen as often in today's teen horror movies ? literally gallons of blood . Someone was working over-time mixing red dye with Karo syrup . - The story isn't much to write home about . Most of the plot revolves around people waiting around to be slaughtered . Most of the characters literally do nothing but stand around and act like easy prey . But in this kind of movie , a deep and meaningful plot is not what most people are after . It's the killings . And as I mentioned previously , that where The Prowler excels . - The Prowler does feature one camera technique that a lot of directors of 80s horror films used that drives me nuts . It's the fake POV shots that get under my skin . Personally , I like POV shots . When done correctly , as in Halloween , they're most effective . But when a director uses a POV shot to trick the audience into thinking something bad is about to happen , it's cheating as far as I'm concerned . Take the scene in The Prowler where the girl is waiting in the jeep at the cemetery . The camera slowly moves toward the jeep . The image moves slightly up and down as if it's shot through the eyes of a moving person . Suddenly , the shot is over and there's no killer ( or any other person for that matter ) . Why do a shot like that unless you're going for cheap scares . It's really annoying .
" If ya feel a wet snout in ya face , whatever you do , don't move . And don't kiss it back ' cause it ain't me . "	Has there ever been a movie that spawned more imitators than Jaws ? I've lost count at the number of Jaws " inspired " films I've seen over the years . Grizzly is not only one such movie but it happens to hold the distinction of being the first movie to hop on board the Jaws moneytrain . The comparisons with Jaws are almost endless . Characters , plot points , and set-pieces are almost identical . Here are a few examples : - Jaws ? An abnormally large , man-eating shark with above average intelligence terrorizes swimmers . - Grizzly ? An abnormally large , man-eating bear with above average intelligence terrorizes campers . - Jaws ? For the first of the movie , the shark is kept mainly off-screen with only a quick shot or two of a fin . - Grizzly ? For the first of the movie , the bear is kept mainly off-screen with only a quick shot or two of a paw . - Jaws ? The movie features scenes of frightened swimmers literally tripping over themselves getting out of the water to escape the shark . - Grizzly ? The movie features scenes of frightened campers literally tripping over themselves getting out of the woods to escape the bear . - Jaws - Police Chief Martin Brody argues endlessly with Mayor Larry Vaughn about the need to close the beaches . - Grizzly - Ranger Michael Kelly argues endlessly with National Park Supervisor Charley Kittridge about the need to close the campgrounds . - Jaws ? For whatever reason , the shark attacks and destroys a wooden pier . - Grizzly ? For whatever reason , the bear attacks and destroys a wooden fire tower . - Jaws ? Three men ( Police Chief Martin Brody , scientist Matt Hooper , and boat captain Quint ) set out for one final showdown with the shark . - Grizzly ? Three men ( Ranger Michael Kelly , naturalist Arthur Scott , and helicopter pilot Don Stober ) set out for one final showdown with the bear . - Jaws ? Bait is dragged behind the boat to attract the shark . - Grizzly ? Bait is dragged behind a horse to attract the bear . - Jaws ? In the end , the shark is " blowed-up real good " . - Grizzly ? In the end , the bear is " blowed-up real good " . By listing these comparisons , I don't mean to imply that Grizzly is a horrible movie or not entertaining . In fact , as far as Jaws rip-offs go , Grizzly is one of the better examples I've seen . For the most part , it's good , cheesy fun . If you're a fan of this kind of stuff , Grizzly is worth a watch . But beyond the cheese , there are some actual solid elements of the movie that should be mentioned . The cinematography , settings , and Andrew Prine's performance are very unexpectedly solid and highlights of the movie for me . Not having seen the movie in 20 or so years , I was surprised by how much blood and gore are actually seen in Grizzly . And , I can really appreciate the difficulties faced by the cast and crew of using a real , half-trained grizzly . That took some guts . The new 30th Anniversary 2-disc DVD set is a great , surprising treat for fans . It's loaded with a nice transfer , commentary , a couple of " making of " features , and other goodies . It's some good stuff . But my favorite part of the bonus material is an interview with one of the writers when he talks about how original his ideas were for Grizzly . Uhm ? Yeah ? Sure ? Whatever Dude !
70s Sleaze	- A mad killer wearing a ski mask commits a series of violent murders using the contents of his toolbox as weapons . After a teenage girl is kidnapped , the police seem to think her brother is responsible . Can he find his sister and save his own neck in the process ? - If I could use one word to describe The Toolbox Murders it would be " sleaze " . It's the kind of movie that you want to take a shower after watching . That's not to say I don't enjoy the movie , because I do . The film thrives on blood , nudity , torture , and a variety of inventive kill scenes . Although the nailgun scene may be the most famous , a claw hammer makes for a nasty weapon . - But the main reason to watch is Cameron Mitchell . Here's a little tip for those unfamiliar with Mitchell - if you're watching a horror movie from the 60s or 70s and Cameron Mitchell shows up , expect him to go nuts and start killing people . Mitchell plays a crazy nut-job as good as anyone I've ever seen . He's just a blast to watch . - The rest of the cast is an odd mix of actors . Aneta Corsaut was Helen Crump , Andy Taylor's girlfriend on " The Andy Griffith Show " . Wesley Eure was in one of my Saturday morning favorites , " Land of the Lost " . And Pamelyn Ferdin was the little girl in just about every television show made in the 60s and 70s . Odd cast , but it works for me .
Poor Mad Helen	- After their sons are sentenced to life in prison , Adelle ( Debbie Reynolds ) and Helen ( Shirley Winters ) begin receiving threatening phone calls because someone fells their sons got off easy . The pair decides to move to California to escape the publicity of the trial and to start a new life . They start a dance school that is soon very successful . One of the students has a rich unmarried father with whom Adelle quickly falls in love . In the meantime , Helen is busy raising rabbits and becoming a little too infatuated with an evangelist on the radio . It's only a mater of time before everything falls apart and the women enter a world of madness and murder . - I can't help but compare What's the Matter with Helen ? to Whoever Slew Auntie Roo ? , also starring Shelly Winters . Where that movie seemed almost restrained in its presentation of Auntie Roo's madness , there's nothing holding Helen back in this movie . It may take a good deal of the movie's running time , but once she snaps , Helen is one Bad Mad Mutha . You don't want to mess with her . Winters is so delightfully demented that it was impossible for me not to enjoy her performance . I'm not going to spoil the movie , but the things Helen is capable of are totally over-the-top . - As good as Winters is , Reynolds is totally ridiculous in her role as the gold-digging tap dancer . I got the impression that she thought she was in a movie that would get her nominated for some award . This ain't Citizen Kane ! Quit acting so serious . Hey , Debbie , don't you realize that you're main purpose is to be a victim of Winters ' insanity . - I just love these former - female - stars - in - the - twilight - of - their - career horror movies . What's the Matter with Helen ? is as fun as any .
Savage , wild , and fascinating	As a primer for the better known Cannibal Holocaust , Jungle Holocaust is definitely not a movie for all tastes . It's rough and raw presentation of savagery would put-off many a viewer . And because director Ruggero Deodato chose to use real aboriginals as his cannibals and real jungle locations , the movie has an authentic feel to it that serves to increase the unsettling feeling Jungle Holocaust produces . I've never run into a real cannibal , but this is what I would expect them to look like . They're dirty , vicious , and wild and ( other than one exception ) completely believable . The situations our hero Robert Harper ( Massimo Foschi ) faces seem real making the horror in Jungle Holocaust very effective . Beyond the gruesome on-screen action , the acting is a real highlight of Jungle Holocaust . Foschi has the most screen time and does the most with it . His slow disintegration into madness and to the savageness of the cannibals around him is fascinating to watch unfold . It's a terrific piece of acting . Me Me Lai has the second most screen time and while she's good in her non-speaking role , she's also the one exception to the believability factor in the movie I mentioned previously . I sincerely doubt that any stone-age , cannibal tribe in the history of the Earth contained a woman that looks as good as Me Me does in Jungle Holocaust . She looks too good to be believable and stands out like a soar thumb when compared with the other tribe members . Finally , a word of warning : Those who do not want to see real animals die on-screen had best be advised to stay away . If you are easily offended by this kind of stuff , don't ' watch the movie . While I personally find these scenes unconscionable and disgusting , I was able to get past them and appreciate and even enjoy the brutal nature of this fascinating film .
" We are students of Hippocrates , but some of us are hypocrites . "	From what I've read , this movie comes as close as any to featuring a reasonably realistic and true-to-life presentation of the Burke and Hare story . For those unfamiliar with the story , Burke and Hare were grave robbers in 19th Century Scotland . The bodies they stole were sold to a doctor to be used in anatomy classes . Burke and Hare discovered that murder was a much easier and a more profitable way of filling the doctor's demand for fresher bodies . The movie features two horror icons ? Peter Cushing and Donald Pleasence ? in performances that I consider to be among the best of their careers . The movie may be a little slow and " talky " for audiences used to the MTV style editing , but this only added to the atmosphere as far as I'm concerned . Burke and Hare's total disregard for human life effectively adds a " nastiness " to the movie that I often find missing from British movies from this period .
" I want to eat your brains . . . and gain your knowledge . "	My initial reaction ? err . . . it was alright , but I was hoping for better than this . I actually feel like I'm being generous giving Grindhouse a . My rating is based on my overall impression of not just the two movies , but with the total experience . Grindhouse gets off to a great start . I don't know how long it's been since I've had more fun with a movie than Planet Terror . Yeah , it's pretty far-fetched and there are plot holes big enough to drive a truck through , but its so much fun I couldn't have cared less . Rose McGowan with a gun for a leg ? how cool is that ! But , unfortunately , Tarantino's Death Proof is another story altogether . 90 % of the film's runtime consists of some of the lamest , unfunny , poorest written dialogue Tarantino has ever penned . Has he ever even heard two females having a conversation ? God , the girls in this movie couldn't die fast enough ! And I'm so tired of seeing Tarantino rip every older movie he's seen so his legions of fanboys can rave about how creative and original he is . Please , just stop it ! And all the stuff in Grindhouse designed to add to the experience like the aged film , the splices , the jump-cuts , and the missing reels got old after about 10 minutes . It came off as terribly gimmicky to me .
" Atlanta to Texarkana and back in twenty eight hours ? That ain't never been done before . "	- Back in 1977 , I was 13 years old . I suppose that I fit right into the movies target market . If I remember correctly , I saw it 4 times in the theater . Years later , I dismissed the movie as too sophomoric and beneath me . But as I grow older , I see Smokey and the Bandit for what it really is ? a nice piece of brainless fun . After all , this isn't rocket science , it's a car chase movie . - The movie works for me because it is so ridiculous . The whole idea of a Texas sheriff chasing a Trans Am all the way to Georgia is completely silly . But the car stunts , jokes , Jackie Gleason , Big & Little Enos , and even Jerry Reed's music make it a very fun watch . My biggest complaint is the way Burt Reynolds insists on mugging for the camera .
" Nothing like rain water from the Top-End . "	If the intent , as some claim , of the makers of Wolf Creek was to do something similar looking or in style to the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre , for the most part it was a success ( and much more successful than the TCM remake from a couple of years ago ) . Wolf Creek has that same sort of raw , brutal power found in TCM . The violence is quick and decisive . Both are very visceral experiences . The films ' structures even mirror each another . Both movies feature a long , slow build to the anticipated mayhem . And both are better off for having taken this approach . The films ' moments of horror are more effective because the directors do no play their hands too early . I admire Greg McLean for being so patient in the modern horror world of " all action all the time " . For the most part , the acting in Wolf Creek is exceptional . Cassandra Magrath and , to a lesser extent , Kestie Morassi play " frightened " about as good as anyone I've seen since Marilyn Burns in TCM . I could believe both characters and , as a result , the terror they faced was more effective . And what could I possibly add about John Jarratt that hasn't already been written ? His Mick Taylor is one of those horror icons that I won't soon forget . He is all the more frightening because of the way Jarratt and McLean decided to present him . His good-natured , friendly exterior is an effective cover for one of the most sadistic and twisted killers I've seen . It makes for the worst kind of killer ? one you feel you can trust . There were a couple of problems I had with Wolf Creek , however , that kept me from completely enjoying the film . First , the ending . How anticlimactic ! I can't believe that the film built and built to this moment . What a letdown ! I won't ruin it for anyone ? I'll just say that I was completely underwhelmed . Second , I had real problems with Nathan Phillips as Ben . As presented , he's a difficult character to have any good feelings for . He got on my nerves from the moment he first appeared on screen . It's not a good sign when you don't care at all if the male protagonist lives or dies . Overall , I found Wolf Creek a nice return to the look and style of the films of the past . Even though I had a couple of problems with the film , Wolf Creek is a solid in my book and that rating could improve on repeat viewings . It's well done Aussie fun !
An instance where the sequel is better than the original	Hercules Unchained picks up right where Hercules ( 1958 ) left off . Hercules and his new bride , Iole , are headed to Thebes . A fight for the throne between two brothers puts a kink in Hercules ' plans , so he decides to act as peacemaker . But before he can carry out his mission , he mistakenly drinks from the " waters of forgetfulness " and is taken prisoner by Queen Omphale . Unsure of his real identity , Hercules is at the Queen's mercy and is reduced to being her plaything . Meanwhile , Iole is caught between the warring brothers and faces death . Can Hercules come to his senses in time to save his wife and his beloved Thebes ? Hercules Unchained is one of those instances where I find the sequel superior to the original . First off , the movie is just more interesting . The original Hercules had a tendency to drag . While Hercules Unchained isn't a thrill-a-minute , there is certainly more action . Second , I think everyone involved from the actors to the director seemed more comfortable in their respective roles in the sequel . That's only natural . Finally , and probably most importantly , Mario Bava's influence is more pronounced and evident in Hercules Unchained . There are instances throughout the movie that show his touch . For example , when Hercules meets the old king in the cave , the use of colored gel lighting in the scene simply screams Bava . Take a look at that scene and compare it with what Bava would do in his on Hercules movie , Hercules in the Haunted World , and see if you don't agree . A lot of different muscle-bound actors would play the role of Hercules in these Italian productions , but none would do it any better that Steve Reeves . In this instance , the original is still the best . Others cast in the role may have been better actors and some may have been more gifted physically , but few could combine the two into a single package as effectively as Reeves . I realize that these Italian sword and sandal movies may not be for everyone , but I really get a kick out of most of them . For anyone new to these movies , Hercules Unchained would make an excellent jumping off point .
" He must think he's Sherlock Holmes "	The family of Henrietta Winslow gathers in her old rambling house for the reading of her will . Problem is , Henrietta's not dead . But this greedy bunch will soon see to that . Before you can say " Watch out Granny ! " , she's been murdered . And Henrietta won't be the only person murdered this night as greed takes hold of everyone involved . Based on what I've read over the years about the 1941 version of The Black Cat , I'm a little surprised at how much I enjoyed it now that I finally had the opportunity to see it . No , it's not the best thing that Universal put out , but it is an enjoyable little mystery / thriller with a great setting and a strong cast . On its face , The Black Cat would seem to be a movie tailor-made for me ? a creepy dark old house filled with hidden rooms and secret passages , a dark and stormy night , Basil Rathbone , multiple murders with multiple suspects , Bela Lugosi , and no escape because of a washed-out bridge . What's not to love about the set-up ? The Black Cat successfully mixes comedy with the chills ? something that can be difficult to successfully do . There's a scene with Lugosi doing his best impersonation of a cat-wrangler that had me laughing out loud . Or the scene where one character condescendingly remarks that Rathbone's character must think he's Sherlock Holmes ? good stuff ! I found the ending to be very satisfying . After a delightful series of red herrings , it's always a treat to discover the killer is the absolute last person you would have considered . And while I mentioned Rathbone and Lugosi , the entire cast is great . Even Broderick Crawford , seemingly terribly miscast as the films unlikely hero , is a lot fun . Overall , I'm very happy to have finally " discovered " The Black Cat . It's one I'm already looking forward to revisiting .
If nothing else , I would call House of Voices an ambitious film .	A young woman named Anna ( Virginie Ledoyan ) is hired to help clean an abandoned orphanage , Saint Ange , after a series of accidents forces its closure . Anna has been forced to leave her previous job after her employer raped her and left her pregnant ? something she desperately wants to hide . She's not completely alone at Saint Ange as the cook ( Dorina Lazar ) is still around to help Anna and to care for the one remaining orphan , a disturbed older girl named Judith ( Lou Doillon ) . Before long , Anna begins to experience some unusual things in the house including mysterious noises , voices , and footsteps . With Judith's help , Anna begins to investigate the giant house and its history . The cook claims to have noticed nothing and questions Anna's sanity . Is Anna mad or does the house have secrets to hide ? If nothing else , I would call House of Voices an ambitious film . I got the distinct impression that the director , Pascal Laugier , was attempting to bring back some of the style of the 1970s Euro-horror films to a modern audience . The film has much of the look and feel you would find in some of the best classic Italian horror films . Many of the camera shots are reminiscent of something you might find in an Argento or Fulci film . Laugier went so far as to cast Catriona MacColl , best known to me from her roles in three of Fulci's zombie films , as the headmistress of the orphanage . If Laugier was actually going for something akin to the films I've mentioned , then he succeeded . I noticed it straightaway . House of Voices is a very slow moving and very atmospheric film . Laugier takes his time telling his story and the movie benefits from it . If you're looking for a thrill-a-minute , stay away . But if you enjoy leisurely paced films where the horror is more subtle than in your face , you'll appreciate Laugier's efforts . As for atmospheric , there are moments in the film where the atmosphere is so thick you can all but cut it with a knife . There's a real sense of foreboding throughout the huge house . The feeling that Anna is in real danger is inescapable . It's one of the films real highlights . The acting in House of Voices is quite good . I was extremely impressed with Virginie Ledoyan . She brought real believability to her role . I could feel the fear and pain she was going through . I don't think I've seen her in anything before , but I'll keep an eye out for her in the future . The supporting cast is equally good and enjoyable . I've got no complaints as far as the acting is concerned . Unfortunately , there are some real problems with House of Voices that keep it from being a great film . Chief among them is the screenplay . It's so utterly confusing that it almost feels purposeful to make House of Voices seem deeper and full of hidden meaning that's really not there . I don't mind a film that makes you think , but there are too many loose ends and plot points that make no sense . Who killed the kittens ? What was in that box Anna found hidden in the wall ? What really happened in the orphanage years previous ? Was I right when I said Anna was raped by her previous employer ? I can make educated guesses , but there are too many of these nagging questions left unanswered at the films end . A script that actually explains a few of the major plot points would have made House of Voices a real winner .
" Well even fish smells good when you're starving to death . "	Blanche and George ( Barbara Harris and Bruce Dern ) are small time operators who use Blanche's supposed abilities as a medium to con trusting old souls out of a few dollars . Their latest mark has agreed to give them $10 , 000 if they can help her locate a long lost family member . Meanwhile , successful jewelry merchant Arthur ( William Devane ) and girlfriend Fran ( Karen Black ) have made something of a career of kidnapping wealthy individuals and ransoming them for diamonds . As luck would have it , the trail of the missing relative leads to Arthur . Not knowing what the pair of would-be detectives is up to and assuming the worst , Arthur quite naturally decides that he and Fran must put a stop to Blanche and George's snooping . I'm joining the chorus singing the praises of Family Plot . Like a lot of others , I think it gets a bad rap . Sure , it's not the best thing Hitchcock ever directed , but come on , it's still a very entertaining , funny movie . It may lack the nail-biting , gut-wrenching suspense of Notorious and the horrific elements and images of Psycho , but it was never meant to be like those two films . Besides , I don't want to see the same movie over and over anyway . What's wrong with a little diversity and a change of pace ? I've always thought Hitchcock did a great job with Family Plot . He manages to take two completely different plot lines and seamlessly and expertly merge them together . He mixes just the right amount of generally understated comedy with a thrilling conclusion . Ernest Lehman's screenplay is smart and filled with some terrifically dark humor that almost always hits the nail on the head . The film may run long for a comedy at 121 minutes , but I can't think of a wasted scene or moment that should have been cut out . I also like the way the audience is allowed to play along with the movie . The audience discovers plot points right along with the characters . There are no " cheats " . But as much as I enjoy the script and as talented as Hitchcock my have been , it's the cast that makes Family Plot really special . From Karen Black's cool entrance in the black trench coat and hat to William Devane's toothy and creepy smile to Bruce Dern's wild hair and constant fidgeting with his pipe to Barbara Harris ' hysterical and manipulative sance scenes , I really cannot pick a favorite . They are all equally fantastic . And , I cannot imagine Family Plot without even one of this quartet of actors . In the end , Family Plot is a neat little movie . It may not be Hitchcock's best or most suspenseful or most horrific or most dramatic , but it just might be amongst his most fun .
A different kind of movie from Toho	- Matango is an odd little movie . Coming from Toho , I expected rubber-suited monsters to dominate the action . But that's not the case . The creatures in Matango don't appear until the final 15 minutes of the movie . And when they do appear , they barely move at all . Not what I expected from the house that Godzilla built . - Instead of cartoon violence , Matango is a much darker movie than most of the other Toho movies I've seen . Instead of city-stomping monsters , Matango excels at atmosphere . The abandoned ship and the lush jungle island are wonderfully creepy places where anything could be lurking around the corner . - If you're so inclined , I suppose there are a lot of different messages that I you could read into the movie . There's the ease with which people can become uncivilized or the dangers of nuclear war or the effects of drugs on our society . I didn't let any of this get in my way of having a good time with the movie . - Finally , when the movie started , I thought I was watching the wrong DVD . The first 15 or so minutes play like an episode of Gilligan's Island . You've got a skipper , a first mate , a professor , a millionaire , a movie star type , and a girl next door . All of them are laughing and singing on board a yacht out for an afternoon cruise . And just like the ill-fated Minnow , the ship in Matango runs aground on a deserted island . Freaky !
" Always count your bullets , senoritas "	Sara Sandoval ( Salma Hayek ) and Maria Alvarez ( Penlope Cruz ) are two very different women . They may be from the same area of Mexico , but everything else about their upbringing couldn't be more different . Sara comes from a wealthy family and has just returned home after having completed her studies in Europe . Maria is the daughter of a dirt poor farmer and has received little in the way of a formal education . But these two women are brought together when an enforcer ( Dwight Yoakam ) representing a NY bank comes to town to buy up land for the railroad . His methods include killing Sara's father to take control of his bank and seriously wounding Maria's father to get his farm . How are these two women going to right the injustices and get revenge ? The pair come up with a plan ? why not rob banks ? If you're looking for a deep , meaningful movie that explores life's mysteries ? Bandidas is the wrong movie for you . I've seen the word " cute " used several times to describe Bandidas and that's better than any I can come up with . This is a light , fluffy , silly , popcorn movie from the word go . I mean , seriously , can you imagine a more unlikely pair of turn of the century , would-be bank robbers than Salma Hayek and Penlope Cruz ? But that doesn't make it any less enjoyable . For me , it's all about suspending reality and just having fun with it . It doesn't hurt that Hayek and Cruz are two of the most stunning actresses working today . But their appeal here goes far beyond their looks . They have a definite chemistry on-screen that's very natural . And the constant bickering between the two is often quite funny . Yoakam and Steve Zahn provide solid support . Yoakam's bad guy performance is especially well done . Overall , I don't have much to complain about . For me , Bandidas made for an entertaining way to spend 90 minutes . I don't want to get into my spiel about the importance of entertainment to me in rating a movie , but Bandidas is a good example . It's just a fun movie !
4 . 3 ? Come on , it's better than that .	Samantha's wedding day should be one of the happiest days of her life . But Samantha is convinced she has seen the man she help convict of brutally murdering her mother 15 years previous when she was 7 years old . No one seems to believe that a killer is stalking Samantha , but she sees the man everywhere . Soon enough , anyone close to Samantha who knows anything about her mother's murder turns up dead . Is the man she has seen the killer , or is it someone else ? I really don't understand the IMDb rating of 4 . 3 for Schizo . The movie is much better than that rating would indicate . I found it to be an entertaining little thriller in the Italian Giallo style . A few good kill scenes , a deranged looking stalker , and an incredible sance make this one above average for me . Director Pete Walker threw in just enough of the red herrings to keep me doubting the killer's identity throughout . Like Walker's other films , Schizo has a downbeat look to it that adds a lot of gloom to the proceedings . I don't think the sun ever shines in a Walker film .
" That bloody chicken wasn't killed , it died of old age . "	What a bizarre movie ! Scream and Scream Again is all over the place . It's a combination horror / sci-fi / mystery / espionage / thriller with sort of a James Bond twist . And it's a lot of fun . To be honest , at the beginning of the film , I was lost . There are about four different plot lines that don't seem to have anything to do with each other . ( 1 ) There is a runner who collapses . Every time we see him after the collapse , he's in a hospital losing his limbs one at a time . ( 2 ) There is a vampire killer on the prowl in London . He attacks young women and drains them of their blood . ( 3 ) There are scenes of some fascist regime in some unknown country . The leaders of the regime are being killed one at a time . Also , people are being tortured for no apparent reason . ( 4 ) There are discussions going on in the uppermost levels of the British government that appear to have nothing to do with anything else . But , by the end of the film , most everything fits together quite nicely as a story about creating a master race . Scream and Scream Again ' stars ' Vincent Price , Christopher Lee , and Peter Cushing . I say ' stars ' because Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing are barely in the movie . In fact , Cushing has all of about 5 minutes of screen time . Alfred Marks as Supt . Bellaver is actually the star . He's a no nonsense policeman investigating the string of murders in London . In the end though , Price takes over and is wonderful . His mad doctor routine is terrific to watch . There are some excellent moments in the film worth mentioning . The chase scene is one of the longest I've ever seen , ending with the killer losing a hand after being handcuffed to the front of a car . Another is the fight scene at the end between Vincent Price and leader of the fascists . There are also moments of tension as when the young doctor is snooping around Vincent Price's house . This is a movie that you have to be patient with . Trust me , it all makes sense in the end .
" There was no face . Just a horrible mush with the eyes sittin ' in it . "	Something strange is happening on a small island off the coast of Ireland . A dead body is a rarity in itself , but one with no bones ? that's not right . The local doctor realizes he needs help and goes to the mainland to find a couple of experts , Dr . Stanley ( Peter Cushing ) and Dr . West ( Edward Judd ) . In no time flat , it's discovered that the island is under attack from a strange creature created in a cancer lab . And now that the creature has started multiplying and the bodies have begun to pile up , can anything be done to save the Island of Terror ? Island of Terror isn't anywhere close to being a perfect movie , but it sure is a whole lot of fun . And " fun " is generally all I require to give a movie a good rating . While I readily admit that Island of Terror has its fair share of problems ( a dull-as-dishwater lead in Edward Judd , some admittedly weak special effects , Carole Gray being so under-utilized that you almost forget she's in the movie as she ends up being little more than " the woman " required by the script , and more padding than worn on Joan Crawford's shoulders ) , I still enjoy watching Peter Cushing do his thing . He's a pro and really shows it with a script that occasionally gives him little to work with . Besides , anything with Cushing is worth checking out at least once any way . Old Hammer colleague Terence Fisher is more than capable of keeping things on track . He does a masterful job with the pacing when by all rights the movie should grind to a halt . Another bonus is all the pseudo-scientific babble that I enjoy . Nothing like a lot of doctor mumbo-jumbo to spice things up . Finally , there's some excellent atmosphere in Island of Terror . I remember watching this one when I was much younger and being frightened beyond belief by the idea of the bone-sucking creatures ? especially those that jump out of trees . Overall , Island of Terror is a nice example of low-to-no budget British movie making from the mid-1960s . One moment in Island of Terror that always bothers me is the scene where Cushing's character is attacked . I know the creatures have thus far proved themselves impenetrable to everything that's been thrown at them , but why not give that tentacle one good whack with the axe . Instead , Dr . Stanley's arm is immediately sacrificed . It's always seemed like an odd moment to me .
Let's hear it for Hammer	I recently wrote a review of Hammer's Paranoiac and , for the most part , I feel like I could change the name and delete references to Oliver Reed and post it as an original review for Nightmare . Oh , sure , there are differences between the two when you start talking about specific plot points , but the general theme is the same . Like Paranoiac , Nightmare is the story of a young woman who is either going insane or being driven insane as part of a fiendish plot . The girl has visions of a woman roaming the halls of her house . When she follows the woman , she inevitably finds her lying on a bed with a knife stuck in her chest . If Nightmare excels at anything it's acting and atmosphere . The cast of non-Hammer regulars is wonderful . I've read that Jennie Linden was a last minute replacement to fill the role of the insane young woman . She's wonderfully believable in one of her first roles . I doubt that someone with considerable experience could have pulled it off so convincingly . As for atmosphere , I've always been of the belief that solid atmosphere is essential for an effective horror / thriller . And director Freddie Francis creates some very effective atmosphere . Everything from the sets to the cinematography to character reactions appears to have been designed to wring every last drop of atmosphere out of the script . I couldn't be happier with the recently released eight-movie Hammer Horror Series . While most fans will surely purchase the set for the better known Frankenstein , Dracula , and Werewolf movies , I hope that most are as pleasantly surprised by the lesser known B & W Hammer films as I am .
" The truth is , I am completely mad . "	I've always considered Hatchet for the Honeymoon one of the " weaker " Bava films . It doesn't have the artistry of Black Sunday or the flair of Blood and Black Lace . Even with these perceived flaws , a weak Bava is still an enjoyable experience . The basic story : Models and customers of a wedding gown design house are turning up dead on their wedding day . Each one viciously killed by a hatchet ( meat clever ) wielding maniac . It's not difficult figuring out who the killer is . Hatchet for the Honeymoon doesn't follow the normal rules of a horror / mystery . Think of it as a backwards Giallo . There are no clever red herrings , no suspicious characters , and no dead-end clues . Instead , the main character , John Harrington ( Stephen Forsyth ) , reveals early on that he's a crazed killer . A bit of dialogue uttered by John early in the movie give tremendous insight into his character ? " A woman should only live till her wedding day . She should love once and then die ' . " But in this case , our killer feels he has a justifiable ( albeit selfish ) reason to kill . Each time he murders a woman , a vision that has haunted him becomes clearer . He's obsessed with discovering the meaning of the vision . How many brides must die before John discovers the secret of his vision ? John also has a nagging wife whom he would like to divorce . But , it seems that she has the money and won't let him go . Instead , she would rather make his life miserable . Deciding he can't take anymore of his wife , John kills her . Still not wanting to leave John , the wife's ghost continues to torment John . In a bizarre twist , John ? the lunatic ? is being driven mad by his wife . Is it possible for a homicidal maniac to be driven crazy ? The performances are fairly standard for this kind of film . Stephen Forsyth is more than adequate for the role of the hunky ( did I just use that word ) killer . I've always felt that his wife , played by Laura Betti , is the only real weak point in the cast . She just doesn't come across very naturally . In scenes where she is tormenting John from the grave , she's appears to be nothing more than an actress playing a part . I never bought into her performance . While there are flashes of Bava's brilliance , much of Bava's trademark style seems muted . For example , while the room of mannequins makes a nice scene , it's not awash in color like scenes from Bava's Black Sabbath or Blood and Black Lace . Instead , it's a fairly dark room without any terribly unusual lighting . It's not that Bava's work here isn't impressive , because it is . There are scenes shot through peep holes and small windows that show other facets of Bava's creativity . I should also mention the score . The music , by Sante Maria Romitelli is a real asset to the movie . Much of it is a loving , soft , romantic score . This type of music mixed with the idea of burying a hatchet in someone may seem inappropriate , but it makes these scenes even more chilling . A perfect example of this is the music box tune John plays when killing the bride in the mannequin room . It's a very effective use of music .
Leslie Brooks is dynamite !	For most if its runtime , Blonde Ice is a very entertaining b-noir . Leslie Brooks is about as evil a woman as you'll see in one of these movies . She's beautiful , ambitious , and completely ruthless ? it's a deadly combination . She's perfectly capable of chewing-up and spitting-out anyone who gets in her way . And , she's not above committing a little murder if the need should arise . Brooks gives a dynamite performance as far as I'm concerned . The rest of the cast is adequate , but nothing spectacular . The weakest point in the film , unfortunately , comes in the final scene . It's almost as if the screenwriters had no idea how to end Blond Ice . What they came up with is so ridiculous and out of character that it really hurts the overall film . A word on the DVD - from what I've read , the VCI disc is the only way to go . The price is not much more than what you would pay for the Alpha DVD and the VCI disc has a much better transfer and a plethora of features .
" Give them nothing ! But take from them everything ! "	It seems there are only two or three movie releases each year that get me excited . 300 just happened to be one of those movies . Overall , while I enjoyed 300 , it wasn't quite the movie I had hoped for . Part of the reason could be that I had over-hyped it in my mind to the point where no movie could live up to that lofty of an expectation . However , with a rating of , it should be obvious that there was plenty here for me to enjoy . To begin , the " look " of the film is phenomenal . The stylized visuals perfectly suit 300's graphic novel origins . The action scenes are breathtaking . There is enough slicing and dicing to make any action fan happy . Finally , I found the acting surprisingly good . Gerard Butler may get most of the notice , but most everyone gave a convincing and solid performance . I was especially impressed with Lena Headey as Queen Gorgo . She just seemed so real and natural . But where 300 falters , in my opinion , is in its extremes . Director Zack Snyder walks a fine line between these extremes and , for the most part , does so successfully . However , moments when historical accuracy bubble to the surface tend to put a drag on the film . Conversely , scenes and images that take 300 into the realm of fantasy and take it too far from its historical roots become all but absurd . It may be a small complaint to some , but this keeps me from rating 300 any higher .
Baron Heinrich Von Freulich - What a name !	Engine trouble forces Race to set the Quest plane down on an unusual runway high in the Andean mountains . The runway belongs to the eccentric Baron Heinrich Von Freulich , a former WWI flying ace . He agrees to let Race borrow one of his vintage planes to get parts for the jet . However , Von Freulich has other plans . He intends to use Race as an opponent in one last dog fight . Shadow of the Condor is another very solid episode . Baron Heinrich Von Freulich makes for a wonderful foe for Team Quest . In fact , Von Freulich might just be the most interesting character to appear in Jonny Quest . From the moment he appears on screen , taking pot-shots at giant condors , you get a sense that this man is capable of most anything . Also , from the moment the Quest plane touches down , there's a sense of mystery and menace surrounding the castle high in the Andes that you usually don't find in a cartoon . And the ending - inspired and ironic are two words that come to mind . One thing I haven't mentioned yet in my comments on the Jonny Quest episodes is the subject of characters dying . In other cartoons , characters would get shot , burnt , and stabbed . They fell off buildings , got hit by cars , and had pianos fall on their heads . All that and they walk away as if nothing happened to them . That's not the case in Jonny Quest . Characters like Von Freulich crash a plane in the side of a mountain and they don't come back . I appreciate the realism . And I appreciate the fact that it taught me that there are consequences to actions . I don't ' think the character deaths in Jonny Quest scarred me as a kid and I've got no problem with my son watching them today . There's too much sheltering of children in the world today anyway .
After a few missteps , DreamWorks comes up with a winner	Having seen the abysmal products DreamWorks has put out recently ( Madagascar was bad and Shark Tale was unwatchable ) , I wasn't expecting much from Over the Hedge . I couldn't have been more wrong . Over the Hedge is an enjoyable story of a band of animals faced with the prospect of finding food as suburbia encroaches on their home . While there are a few slow spots , most of it is very well done . There are some segments that are genuinely laugh-out-loud funny , none more so than a 2 minute scene near the end featuring the spastic , hyper Hammy . The script is well written , taking pokes at rampant consumerism and the need to preserve the environment without ever feeling preachy . The animation in Over the Hedge is top notch and the voice work is exceptional with Wanda Sykes being the standout to me . In short , my wife and I had a great time with it and our three year old stayed entertained throughout . What more can you ask ?
It's too bad they only made two of these films .	Even though the comparisons with James Bond are inevitable , I don't think they are fair . I enjoy the Bond movies and however similar , the two Hugh Drummond films from the 60s have their own , unique style . They're played a little more for humor and lack some of the big budget special effects . But fans of the better known Bond films should find something to enjoy in either of the lesser known films Deadlier Than the Male or Some Girls Do . I can just about sum up what I like about Some Girls Do by using what I wrote for Deadlier Than the Male as a guide . However , if push comes to shove , I actually prefer Some Girls Do to the first film in the series . The 60s feel , Richard Johnson's Drummond , the villainous James Villers , scenes stealers like Ronnie Stevens and Robert Morley , terrific locations , and the implausible yet wonderful gadgets and traps , including a small army of female automatons , are all a delight . As with the first movie , my absolute favorite moments are those with the two female killers . Daliah Lavi and Beba Loncar make the movie worth checking out just to see them . Lavi , in particular , is one of those women that seem to have only existed in the 60s that I enjoy watching so much . It's too bad they only made two of these films . I would have liked to see this series continued .
A " new " episode for me	Race , Jonny , and Hadji are forced to land their plane in the middle of the jungle . Once on the ground , they discover an angry tribe of pygmies who seem to only want to see them dead . Wow ? I thought I had seen every episode of Jonny Quest . For whatever reason , I never watched A Small Matter of Pygmies as a kid and I must have skipped over it back when I first went through the DVD set . It's pretty cool to make this " discovery " . As for the episode , it's not bad at all . I enjoyed it much more than the previous two . The pygmies present a real threat to Jonny and the gang . There's a sense of danger about them as they trap Race , Jonny , and Hadji on top of the mountain and begin making their advance like a single , mindless killing machine . Even though I knew the guys would somehow escape , I got caught up in the story and found it worked for me . One thing that troubled me was the malfunctioning aircraft plot device . How many times do they use that in Jonny Quest ? To be as smart and resourceful as the Quest Team is , they're terrible when it comes to regular aircraft maintenance .
A solid way to start off the series	Over the years , I've seen everyone one of these Jonny Quest episodes at least a half-a-dozen times . When I was much younger , there wasn't much of anything on television as cool as Jonny Quest . It combined mysteries , monsters , and the unknown with some really groovy 60s music , and James Bond type gadgets . What boy wouldn't love this stuff ! Well , I'm not a kid anymore and it's not the 60s anymore , but I still enjoy watching Jonny Quest . Over the next few weeks , I'm going to give every episode of Jonny Quest another go round . I started this morning with the first episode , " The Mystery of the Lizard Men " . While I don't think the sight of the lizard men's hands reaching over the side of the boat affected me the way it did several decades ago , it's still a nice moment . Overall , it's a solid way to start off the series . Spooky ghost ships , the mysterious Sargasso Sea , and deadly lasers ? " The Mystery of the Lizard Men " packs a lot into its brief runtime . I don't rate this episode as highly as others because the main baddie doesn't really stand out and he's too easily defeated . Otherwise , it's an enjoyable episode . A seems about right .
Dr . X meets the Moon Killer	I just love these old , dark house style horror / mystery / thrillers from the 30s . In this one , Lionel Atwill plays Dr . Xavier , the head of a surgical research institute . A series of brutal killings committed by a gruesome figure , nicknamed the ' Moon Killer ' , points to someone within the institute . The police allow Dr . X the chance to perform an experiment to uncover the killer . Dr . X decides to move the experiment to an old , dark house in order to avoid the prying eyes of the press . The ' press ' is played by Lee Tracy in that 30s wise-cracking , fast-talking way that all newspaper men were portrayed . ( I was immediately reminded of Glenda Farrell from The Mystery of the Wax Museum , only in this case Lee Tracy is even more annoying . ) As the experiment begins , it soon become apparent that the police were right . Someone within the house is a killer , but who ? Any more of the story would be too much . Although the movie is not without flaws , I found Doctor X very enjoyable . The supporting cast includes Fay Wray as Dr . X's daughter . She does her best to prove she was the original ' scream queen ' . Also , the staff members / suspects are all wonderfully played in eccentric fashion . Other things I enjoyed and found to be above average were the set design and the makeup . The set design is impressive . The manor house has everything one comes to expect in this kind of movie . It only adds to the wonderful atmosphere . Also , I felt the makeup ( done by Max Factor ) was ahead of its time . I found it far more frightening than most movies from this period . The director , Michael Curtiz , does a wonderful job of building the tension in the final scenes . Very impressive . I really can't say enough about how well he pulled this together with the seemingly limited budget he was working with . ( BTW , Curtiz went on to direct such a variety of movies that it really boggles the mind . Included on his resume are the previously mention Mystery of the Wax Museum , The Walking Dead with Boris Karloff , Casablanca , and Elvis in King Creole . )
" It's clear as mud to me . "	A British secret agent is assigned the task of taking some secret documents to Washington , D . C . It's wartime in Europe and enemy agents would be only too happy to get their hands on these papers . When the British agent does make it off the train from New York , things look bleak . Enter Sherlock Holmes and his trusty , ever faithful sidekick , Dr . Watson . The British government entrusts locating the missing agent , the secret papers he carried , and , ultimately , the success of the Allied war effort to Holmes . I've never been much of a fan of the modern day , WWII set Sherlock Holmes films . I wholeheartedly prefer the Victorian Holmes thrillers like The Scarlet Claw and The Hound of the Baskervilles to something like The Voice of Terror . Too much flag waving , blindly chasing Nazis , and gun-play for my liking . I prefer the more sedate , cerebral Holmes who analyzes clues and outsmarts the baddies . And that's probably why I found Sherlock Holmes in Washington so appealing . The movie allows Holmes to use his intellect to solve the case . Holmes analyzes a sliver of wood having to do with the case and quickly comes up with the most amazing pronouncement regarding its origin . Pure Holmes ! In addition , Sherlock Holmes in Washington benefits from having some above average supporting players ( George Zucco and Henry Daniell ) and from having Roy William Neill in the director's chair . Altogether , it's a good show and a nice installment in the series .
Unexpected surprises throughout	It took a while to grow on me , but by the time I had finished with Young , Violent , Dangerous , I realized how much I enjoyed the film . I found myself caring about the characters and what would become of them . Young , Violent , Dangerous is the story of three young punks out getting some kicks by knocking over a gas station . Their crimes soon escalate ( bank robbery , murder , kidnapping , etc . ) to the point where they get the attention of the entire Milan police force . The film is filled with some unexpected violence as the young thugs show just how tough they are and how little they care about human life . Throw in a few decent car chases and you've got a nice little Poliziotteschi . The ending is another unexpected moment with a nice twist . While Tomas Milian gets top billing , he really does very little other than smoke cigarettes , talk on a police radio , lecture people , and stay about three steps behind the young criminals . Eleonora Giorgi and Stefano Patrizi are the real stars as the kidnap victim and head of the gang respectively in a couple of very nice performances . The low point of the film is the character played by Benjamin Lev , Joe . He's supposed to be the clown of the group ( Why do all gangs have one of these guys ? ) but he comes off as an utterly ridiculous , hyena-laughing moron who I grew to detest more and more as Young , Violent , Dangerous wore on .
Some very creepy moments	- The film's title refers to a Japanese myth involving the spirits of people who have died in " the grip of a powerful rage " . Anyone who comes into contact with these spirits will die . The plot of The Grudge is very simple . An American exchange student , Karen ( Sarah Michelle Gellar ) , living in Japan takes a job with a health care center . When one of the other workers doesn't show up , Karen is given her first solo assignment helping an older lady in her home . When Karen arrives , she immediately realizes that something is not quite right . What she doesn't realize is that this house is possessed by spirits who will kill anyone who sets foot inside . - Let me start by saying that I have not ( as of / 05 ) seen the original Japanese version . I plan to do so , hopefully , very soon . With that being said , I enjoyed The Grudge much more than I had expected . This is my first experience with Shimizu as a director , but I came away impressed . His has a nice ability to tell a story regardless of the language . The Grudge is one of the best examples of a non-linear story presentation that I can think of . As the movie progressed , it was a treat to watch Shimizu bring the pieces of the story together . - Another plus for The Grudge was Shimizu's decision ( probably based on budgetary concerns as much as anything ) to primarily use " real " effects and less CGI . The make-up on the Kayoka character , for example , created a far more unsettling image than the use of CGI could have . It was obvious that Kayoka was a real person , not just a computer image . The overuse or inappropriate use of CGI has ruined many modern horror movies . - There were , however , some areas where the movie could have been better . Gellar is one of the most unappealing leads in Hollywood . I've never understood what all the fuss is about . I always found her extremely annoying . - While the movie has many truly creepy ( some were downright scary ) scenes , the movie relies far too heavily on " jump moments " . You know what I mean - a character opens a door and a cat jumps out ( The Grudge actually features a cat jumping out of a closet ) . I've always thought that jump moments were a cheap way to illicit a response from the audience . A few jump moments can be good , but too many just becomes tiring . - Given that I wasn't expecting much , The Grudge was a lot of fun . I am looking forward to the sequel and to going back and discovering the original Japanese film - Ju-on : The Grudge .
Burning witches , Barbara Steele , creepy castles , and ghosts - What more could you ask for ?	A woman is burned for being a witch . Her daughter , Helen Karnstein ( Barbara Steele ) vows revenge , but is pushed off a cliff before she can carry it out . The younger sister , Elizabeth ( Halina Zalewska ) , grows up and is forced to marry the man who framed her mother . Then one stormy night , Helen rises from the grave . Elizabeth's husband immediately falls for Helen and together they plot to get rid of Elizabeth . Will Helen really help kill her sister , or is it part of a plot to finally get revenge for her mother's death ? If you're a fan of either Italian B & W ghost stories or Barbara Steele , there's a lot here to enjoy . There's just something about B & W that seems to work for me in a ghost story . B & W makes Gothic look ? well , more Gothic . Color never works as well for me with this kind of movie . The eerie passageways of the castle , the witch burning scene , and the dead corpses in the burial chamber are especially creepy in The Long Hair of Death . But my favorite scene , filmed in all its B & W glory , has to be Helen's appearance in the chapel after having been brought back from the dead . To quote Martha Stewart , " It's a good thing . " Barbara Steele made a boatload of horror films that I enjoy . In fact , she's in my all time favorite ? Black Sunday . I have no way of knowing if this is true , but she appears to be having more fun with her role in The Long Hair of Death than I've noticed in some of her other movies . Regardless , there's no denying how mesmerizing she is here . It's impossible not to focus on her in every scene in which she appears . I suppose I should give the usual warning to those more accustomed to the pace of modern horror . The Long Hair of Death is slow going . Those who require a killing or an explosion every five minutes should probably just skip it .
A particularly sadistic means of murder	If you were looking for a blueprint on the common elements of a Gaillo , The Black Belly of the Tarantula would be a good example . It contains just about every clich associated with the genre ? outrageous death scenes , a gloved killer , a convoluted plot , and beautiful women . 1 . Outrageous Death Scenes ? The killer's mode of murder is to paralyze his victims so they are conscious and aware of the butchering they are receiving . It's a particularly sadistic touch . 2 . A Gloved Killer ? What self-respecting Giallo doesn't feature a gloved killer ? They may not be black gloves , but they're gloves nonetheless . The killer is the Giallo standard issue ? trench coat , wide brimmed hat , the aforementioned gloves , and an uncanny ability to move silently and predict the victims every move . 3 . A Convoluted Plot ? The plot is all over the place . In the end , most of it makes sense , but it's nice to watch everything unfold before the final reveal . Maybe I'm just too easily taken in , but I would have never guessed the killer's true identity . 4 . Beautiful Women ? I don't ' believe there's any need to say more than The Black Belly of the Tarantula features three Bond girls ? Barbara Bach , Barbara Bouchet , and Claudine Auger . It's all here and done with a healthy dose of style ( however unoriginal much of it unfortunately might be ) . It's well done Italian fun !
A remarkable looking film	Much of The Fifth Cord is what I would call average for a Giallo . The death scenes aren't that original , the murder investigation is often muddled and confusing , and , other than Franco Nero , I've seen far better acting in other Gialli . As for the mystery elements , The Fifth Cord doesn't really play fair . It seems all but impossible for the average viewer to figure out " who done it " based on the clues presented . Finally , the score is one of the more non-memorable pieces from Ennio Morricone I've heard recently . But it's not all bad . In fact , when The Fifth Cord is good , it's very good . First , there's the look of the film . Director Luigi Bazzoni and Cinematographer Vittorio Storaro have successful made one of the best looking Gialli I've seen . Through a combination of brilliant framing , lighting , and location choices , almost every frame is like a work of art . There are some remarkable uses of light and shadows that are simply stunning . Second , the final scenes are as tense as any of the better known Gialli I've seen . It's real " on the edge of your seat " kind of stuff . Third , Franco Nero is a real professional and does a lot to bring life and realism to his role . I always enjoy his performances . Overall , The Fifth Cord may not be the best Giallo in the world , but for fans of the genre , there's enough here to enjoy to make the film worthwhile . Also , today's filmmakers could learn a thing or two about making a film really standout visually from watching what Bazzoni and Storaro did in The Fifth Cord .
" You know what a man would do right now if he were smart ? "	Needing money to finance a racing team , Larry ( Peter Fonda ) and Deke ( Adam Roarke ) decide to hold-up a grocery store . Things are going as planned until Larry's one-night-stand , Mary ( Susan George ) , turns up in the getaway car . The three must settle their differences if they are to evade the police and make their escape . What Works : - The Stunts . Dirty Mary Crazy Larry is such a simple movie . It's the kind of movie that's best enjoyed with your bran turned off . This isn't rocket science , it's a car chase movie . The chase scenes are expertly filmed with a minimum of cuts . We see everything exactly the way it happened . And , as the film was made in 1974 , we're seeing real people perform the dangerous action and not some computer generated idea of what the stunts should look like . - The Acting . Everyone in the movie is great . Fonda and George may get top billing , but Roarke really shines . Roarke's Deke is flawed character with a lot of heart . His scene with Mary toward the end of the movie is perfectly played and unexpectedly emotional . I'm amazed that Roarke didn't go on to bigger things . - The Ending . That ending took some real guts . The movie sucks you in and makes you really care about whether or not these characters are going to make their escape . And out of nowhere comes that ending . Wow ! What Doesn't Work : - The Dialogue . Some of the dialogue reminded me of a foreign movie that has been translated into English . Some of the lines just didn't seem natural . I don't remember grown adults actually talking like that in the 70s . - Susan George's Accent . For the most part , George does a good job of covering her English accent . But there are times when it slips through and is a bit distracting . I realize that Dirty Mary Crazy Larry isn't the type of movie to appeal to everyone , but I had a blast watching it . It's the kind of entertainment I enjoy . The Region 1 DVD is fantastic with a nice documentary featuring Fonda , George , and director John Hough . The fun they had making this movie really comes through . Fonda , in particular , acts like a schoolboy as he reminisces about the movie . They appeared to have as much fun making it as I did watching it .
Wonderful Performance by Karloff	Corridors of Blood ( 1962 ) is the story of a doctor trying to discover the secret of painless surgery . While less a horror film and more a study of the decline in an individual caused by drug addiction , it does have several creepy and frightening moments . Some of the surgery sequences are gruesome . And , any film with both Boris Karloff and Christopher Lee has got to have its share of horror moments . The basic story - Karloff plays the doctor . He experiments on himself with the gas he is developing to be used in surgery . He becomes addicted to the narcotics he is using . Soon , he is unable to function and is released from his position as a surgeon . He meets up with a couple of baddies played by Lee and Francis De Wolff who agree to help him get the drugs he needs . All Karloff has to do is sign some blank death certificates . Revealing anymore of the story would be too much . Karloff is terrific as the doctor . You can feel his anguish and pain as he realizes what the drugs have done to him . But , you can also see the underlying need he has for the gas . Lee is so incredibly ruthless . His character ( Resurrection Joe ) kills with no remorse or qualms . This is one character I would have liked to see more of in other films . Also present is an excellent supporting cast lead by De Wolff and Nigel Green . Corridors of Blood excels at atmosphere . Even with the small budget , the director ( Robert Day ) is able to portray the seediness and depravity of the Seven Dials area . Perfect ! Not a great film , Corridors of Blood is , however , good and very watchable . Karloff's performance alone is reason enough to see this film .
Fun	- Of the first four Hercules movies that preceded the television series , this is easily my favorite . Hercules must save a town from an opening to Hades . Along the way , he faces several temptations and a slew of monsters . But that's not his greatest challenge . Deianeira has been killed and Hercules must find her while he's in Hades and bring her back to the land of the living . - These Hercules movies aren't about great acting or deep plot lines . Don't watch them expecting Academy Award winning material . These movies are about having fun . And Hercules in the Underworld delivers fun . From Hercules ' battle with the giant Eryz the Boxer to his taking on zombies in the underworld , it's pure eye-candy filled entertainment . The special effects are quite good given the limited television budget . It's easy to see Sam Raimi's ( Executive Producer ) influence on the special effects . Many of creatures , etc . are used by Raimi in his Evil Dead movies . - Kevin Sorbo is the perfect television Hercules . He plays the character with tongue firmly in cheek . He's big enough to be believable and he's athletic enough to pull it off . The supporting cast is , for the most part , adequate enough in their roles . The exception is the most experienced actor of the bunch - Anthony Quinn . He just seems so out of place that I'm glad wasn't used in the regular series .
Excellent performance from Moriarty	- Jimmy Quinn ( Michael Moriarty ) is a small time crook who gets mixed up in a botched jewel heist . He escapes and makes his way to the top of the Chrysler Building . There , he discovers what appears to be a giant egg . Jimmy soon realizes that he's discovered the nesting spot of the giant serpent that's been terrorizing the city . Now , how to use that information to his advantage ? - I love this stuff ! Q has it all ? police drama , jewelry heist , murderous cult , Shaft , and blackmail . Oh yeah , I forgot , Q also has a giant , flying serpent that's been brought back to life by some whacked-out cult that skins people as a sacrifice to the serpent . When the serpent isn't out biting the heads off of construction workers or nude sunbathers , it finds time to make a home and lay an egg in , of all places , the Chrysler Building . While Q's plot may seem far-fetched ( How does a flying monster remain unseen for so long in New York ? Does no one ever look up ? ) , it's a lot of fun . It would be difficult to pack more cheese into a movie and still have it be coherent . - It's a shame that movies like Q don't receive more critical regard . Michael Moriarty is wonderful as the weak and slow-witted Jimmy Quinn . I'm serious when I say that Moriarty's work in Q should have gotten him an Academy Award nomination . He's that good . You might not like the character , but there should be no denying the brilliance of the performance . But then again , movies with flying clay monsters rarely get taken seriously . - The rest of the main cast is , for the most part , good . Any movie with both Richard Roundtree and David Carradine gets bonus points just for that casting decision . My only complaint is how underutilized Roundtree is . I would have loved to see him lay down some Shaft-style justice on the cult members . Carradine is solid and his scene with Moriarty in the diner is one of the real highlights of the movie . - If you're looking for a fun , 50s style monster movie , Q may be just right . Don't take it too seriously and you'll probably have a lot of fun .
" Why , David , I thought I'd never find you in ladies ' underwear . "	Jody ( Ann-Margaret ) is a teen on the run . She finds an empty house and decides to use it as a place to spend the night . After she's asleep , the house's owner , Senatorial candidate David Patton ( John Forsythe ) , returns home and makes his way to his bed . The next morning , Patton finds Jody in his house and , after hearing her sob story , agrees to help the girl out by buying her some clothes and a bus ticket . But when Patton comes home that night , he finds Jody has returned with a whole different attitude . If Patton doesn't do as she demands , she'll yell " Rape ! " How would it look if it were known that the future Senator spent the night in a house with a seventeen year-old runaway while his wife was out of town ? Patton is caught between rock and a hard place . I actually watched Kitten with a Whip a week or more ago and I've been trying to write something about it ever since . I've found it a difficult movie for me to get a grip on . Admittedly , it's got its fair share of problems ( actually it's got a whole bunch of problems ) but it's so bizarre , so surreal , and , ultimately , so oddly compelling that I can't help but give it a good rating . It's not even the movie I was expecting . Kitten with a Whip isn't nearly as lurid as either the title , plot description , or tagline ( " She's all out for kicks . . . and every inch of her spells excitement ! " ) seem to suggest . Remember , this is 1964 and made by Universal ? a relatively conservative time and a very conservative company . Yet the more I watched , the more I found myself being entertained in that trashy sort of way . The bluesy , smoky soundtrack was appealing . The overwrought melodrama grew on me . The ridiculous hipster dialogue started sounding less annoying . The plot's absence of logic began to matter less and less . And most surprising , I discovered that I actually began to care about the characters played by Ann-Margaret and John Forsythe . In the end , regardless of all its shortcomings , Kitten with a Whip is one entertaining experience . I actually have Mystery Science Theater 3000 to thank for bringing this movie to my attention . And though I enjoyed the movie , I found that the MST3K commentary actually took away from the experience . I would like to see the movie without the comedy . So , while I rate Kitten with a Whip a , I'll give the Episode # 615 a on my MST3K rating scale .
Solid , but not great	- The Bloodstained Butterfly has one of the most convoluted plots I've seen thus far in a giallo . The story is about a young girl who is murdered in a park . A man is apprehended , tried , and convicted of her murder . But the murders don't stop . Two deaths later and the man is released . So just who is the real killer ? - The tone of The Bloodstained Butterfly is much more serious in nature than many gialli . The more outlandish murder scenes you'll find in other gialli aren't here . While the movie has many of the traditional trappings of a giallo - a black-gloved killer , sex , and a boat load of suspects . What it doesn't have is the grisly on-screen murders one would expect . The first half is actually a bit like watching an episode of Law & Order - a police investigation followed by a trial . - The score is outstanding . The more of these films I watch , the more I appreciate the music and how it works within the movie . The Bloodstained Butterfly starts with ( and repeats throughout ) Tchaikovsky but soon mixes in original pieces from Gianni Ferrio . It works very nicely . - The only problem I see with The Bloodstained Butterfly is the movie's tendency to drag during the second half . I just wanted them to get on with it . But it wasn't enough of a problem to seriously hamper my enjoyment .
Fu Manchu's up to his old tricks	Fu Manchu's up to his old tricks ? he's trying to take over the world . This time he's kidnapped the daughters of several esteemed scientists to use as blackmail so their fathers will help him with his plans . He's constructing something akin to a laser that can destroy entire cities . As usual , Nayland Smith is hot on his trail . I believe I've seen all of the Christopher Lee Fu Manchu movies and this one , The Brides of Fu Manchu , is to me the best . What sets this Fu Manchu movie apart from the others , especially those made later on , is the lively direction , the competent editing , and a much more coherent story . I'm one of those who will often defend Jess Franco till I'm blue in the face , but I can't do that with his Fu Manchu movies . Compared to The Brides of Fu Manchu , Uncle Jess ' Fu Manchu movies are almost unwatchable . If you don't believe me just take a look at The Castle of Fu Manchu . It's God awful ! Getting back to this movie , another plus for The Brides of Fu Manchu is the seemingly always enjoyable Christopher Lee . Lee is solid and certainly had a knack for playing the baddie as good as anyone . He imbibes Fu Manchu with a real sense of evil . You get the feeling that he's a man capable of doing anything to anybody at anytime . The rest of the cast is good , but nothing to write home about . Although not terribly memorable , it was nice to see Carole Gray in another film . For someone new to the series , The Brides of Fu Manchu would seem to make a good place to start . It's not perfect , but it is entertaining . For what it's worth , I'll give it a .
" Well , one good thing : all drinks are on the airline for everyone . "	A flight bound for Minnesota is hijacked and diverted to Anchorage with Moscow as its ultimate destination . Between terrible weather and zero visibility over Alaska and the possibility of being shot down my Russian fighters , it's going to be a harrowing journey . And that doesn't even take into account the unknown , crazed hijacker with a bomb who is somewhere on the plane ! I'll be honest ? Skyjacked probably doesn't deserve the rating ( ) I've given it . But I had such a good time watching it that I couldn't bring myself to rate it any lower . The situations may be predictable to anyone who has seen more than a handful of 70s disaster-style movies , but that doesn't make it any less enjoyable . My only real complaint is that the movie never goes far enough in the way of over-the-top camp or cheesy clichs . Much of Skyjacked is played too straight forward for its own good . Old square-jawed Charlton Heston is the pilot . His Captain O'Hara is the same no-nonsense character who spits lines like nails and has the look on his face of someone who has been constipated for a couple of weeks that Heston always played . But boy is he good at it . I love watching the guy work ! The rest of the cast takes the notion of two-dimensional characters to new heights . There's Rosey Grier as the gregarious black musician , Jeanne Crain as the middle-aged woman in the midst of some mysterious crisis , Walter Pidgeon as the old Senator who knows more than his share of national secrets , Susan Dey as the hippie who couldn't possibly afford to sit in first class , Mariette Hartley as the pregnant woman on the verge of going into labor , and Claude Akins as the only man who could give Heston a run for his money in the no-nonsense department . Even James Brolin , who outstanding as the crazed hijacker , isn't fleshed-out beyond a couple of ridiculous , but quite funny , flashbacks . They may be a predictable bunch , but they make Skyjacked a lot of fun . One of my favorite parts of Skyjacked is the way director John Guillermin tries to make a mystery out of the hijacker's identity . First , I can't imagine anyone actually found it difficult to spot him . It's pretty obvious ? he's the one acting nuttier than a fruitcake . ( Not to mention that the new DVD gives away his identity on the back cover ? good going guys ! ) Second , I love the way Guillermin tries to throw suspicion on a number of characters . For example , the only clue to the hijacker's identity we have is a tube of red lipstick . There's no way you can miss it ? Guillermin zooms in on it about a dozen times . Then , a couple of scenes later , we see Jeanne Crain applying . . are you ready for this . . . red lipstick ! I had to laugh ! How in the world could anyone possibly imagine Jeanne Crain as a hijacker ? Too funny !
" If you wanna get rich , stay away from women . "	Nancy Drew and her lawyer father , Carson , set off for the country to help out an old family friend wrongly accused of murder . Conveniently for Nancy , her friend Ted Nickerson and his family are vacationing nearby . She quite naturally ropes Ted into helping her with her investigations . But this time , Nancy may have bitten off more than she can chew . From ghostly encounters to high flying danger , Nancy will have to be careful if she's to catch a killer . I'm kicking myself for not watching these Nancy Drew movies sooner . I only wish I had about a half-dozen more to go instead of just one . Of the three Nancy Drew movies I've seen so far , Nancy Drew ? Trouble Shooter is my favorite . While the plot may hardly matter ( the killer's identity is not much of a mystery - in fact , it's NO mystery ) , that doesn't mean the movie isn't entertaining . There's plenty of action in this well paced movie with Nancy facing and overcoming obstacle after obstacle . From burning barns to burning dinner , the set-pieces are all enjoyable . Bonita Granville is as delightful as ever in the title role . She has such an infectious nature that it's impossible not to be a fan of her performance . In this installment , I was really impressed with Frankie Thomas as Ted . With a nice sense of comic timing , he plays the put upon boyfriend to perfection . And I liked the fact that John Litel as Carson Drew is given a bigger part and a romantic interest . My only real complaint would be with the character Apollo Johnson played by Willie Best . I'm certainly no crusader for political correctness , but I still have difficulty watching the shuffling , " Yassuh ! " type characters played by black actors in the 30s .
" Oh , I beg your pardon . Was that your leg ? "	Suspicion could have been one of Alfred Hitchcock's best films . Up to the final few minutes of the film , it's wonderful . I even enjoyed ( or at least didn't mind ) the long-winded verbal exchanges that some viewers seem to dislike . I'm a fan of intelligent , well-written dialogue and that's what I found for most of Suspicion's runtime . Hitchcock masterfully uses these scenes to build doubt in the viewers mind . Cary Grant is perfectly cast as the playboy husband with more than a few secrets to hide . Could there really be a killer hiding behind that handsome , jovial , carefree exterior ? As for Joan Fontaine , I know I'm starting to sound like a broken record by praising performance after performance , but she is amazing . She plays the bookish , timid old-maid so believably . Her character is one who is easy to sympathize with and fret over as you begin to fear for her life . It's very nicely done . It's a shame that Hitchcock was saddled with this ending . It feels rushed , tacked-on , and sloppy . It successfully puts a damper on everything that comes before it . It's something of a cruel joke . I was reminded of the famous shower scene from the television show Dallas when we as viewers are told to forget about everything we had seen . It didn't happen . Doing a little reading since I finished watching Suspicion , I've read the description of the ending Hitchcock originally intended to shoot and use . And I'm in agreement with most everyone else ? the original ending would have been great . It's too bad the studio and Grant's people felt the need to have it changed .
" It'd be funny if life wasn't so sacred . "	To begin with , I'm going to skip the normal plot summary . Most people probably know it anyway - a scientist has a horrific accident and turns himself into half man , half fly . And please don't misunderstand what I'm writing ? I like and enjoy The Fly . My rating should be proof of that . But am I alone in thinking that The Fly may be a bit overrated ? Actually , the term " overrated " is probably the wrong word as I'm not talking about the movie's rating per se . What I mean , is there anyone who cares that is not familiar with the movie or some of the more iconic images from The Fly whether they've seen the movie or not ? Sure the movie is great once the creature makes an appearance , but for of the film , it's pure melodrama of the worst kind . Another question I have regarding The Fly , why is this seemingly one of Vincent Price's most beloved movies ? He's neither villain nor hero ? he's just there . So why all the acclaim for Vincent Price when it come to The Fly ? I don't get it . But what I do understand about The Fly is that regardless of my problems and questions , it's a fun movie that never fails to entertain . The acting is solid and the movie looks great . The Fly actually features some real atmosphere . And I find the unmasking scene second only to the one in The Phantom of the Opera ( 1925 ) as far as iconic scenes of this type go . Finally , I'm a huge fan of the special effects . Whether it's the fly's head on the human body or the human head on the fly's body , the special effects are a blast .
" How beautiful you are , Rose Red . "	Prof . Joyce Reardon teaches psychology and has a particular interest in the psychology of the occult . For her next research project , she intends to take a group of psychics to a local haunted house , Rose Red . The house is known as " dead cell " as it's been years since any reported supernatural activity occurred in Rose Red . It's Prof . Reardon's goal to use her team of psychics to bring the house back to life and gather physical data supporting her theories on the supernatural . But Rose Red is no ordinary haunted house . It's the granddaddy of haunted houses . Over the years , it's been responsible for the deaths or disappearances of dozens of people . What will happen if Prof . Reardon's team is successful in their mission ? And will anyone be left to tell their story ? Even for a writer as gifted and talented as Stephen King , coming up with original ideas for a haunted house film is difficult . It seems that every haunted house movie made since 1963 follows the pattern set out by The Haunting . Rose Red is no different ? a notorious house with a deadly history , a scientist looking to uncover its mysteries , a group of psychics , etc . So Rose Red gets no bonus points for an original story idea . But its execution is very nicely done . Because Rose Red was originally conceived as a miniseries , there's time to get to know a little something about the characters . It gives a little more substance to the danger they face . This extra time also allows for atmosphere ? something that I've argued is missing from a lot of modern horror . The special effects are also quite good . I was especially impressed with some of the lighting , miniature , and matte effects . And the acting is better than I would have expected . Julian Sands has always been a favorite of mine and he does not disappoint here . The only negative aspects of the film that immediately come to mind are the movie's finale and some ill-placed comedy . The ending of the movie is extremely muddled . I've seen Rose Red three times now and still have trouble deciding just what is behind the haunting ( vampire , ghost , or something else ) . And the comedy featuring Prof . Reardon's colleague Prof . Carl Miller is really out of place given the tone of most of the rest of the movie . Overall , if you're a fan of haunted house films like The Haunting or The Legend of Hell House , don't let Rose Red's 240 minute runtime put you off . It's about the best " traditional " haunted house movie I can think of from the last 20 years .
" Overall , it was a good , efficient butchery . "	There's not much need to go into detail on the plot . Simply put , The New York Ripper is the story of a mad killer with a penchant for slashing young woman and harassing the police with his duck-like voice . That's really all you need to know . The New York Ripper is Lucio Fulci's latter day ultra-violent take on the Giallo . When I say ultra-violent , I mean ULTRA-violent . If you're a fan of Fulci-style gore , there's surely something here for you . There's one scene where a girl's eye meets a razor that's particularly nasty and particularly difficult to watch . And , if you're a fan of Fulci-style sleaze , there's surely something here for you also . While I won't go as far as some reviewers and call it pornographic , there are a variety of sexual perversions on display . But it's not all blood and sex . Fulci actually manages to create a few scenes with real tension . There are moments where you know that killer is about to strike , but the anticipation Fulci builds in the audience is quite good . Unfortunately , there are problems I have with the film . I'll limit this to two examples . First , the resolution of the mystery is a real letdown . The killer's identity is far too easy to guess . Fulci telegraphs the answer form the opening moments of the film . Second , Gialli often ask the viewer to suspend reality to accept various plot points , but the final scenes in The New York Ripper cross the line into ridiculousness and really hurts the overall film . I'm certainly no expert , but I sincerely doubt that all the psychological babble made any real sense to anyone .
Low-budget film-making at its best	Wherever they go , the members of the motorcycle club known as The Scorpions seem to wind up the target of local law enforcement . They can't even drive their motorcycles down the road without drawing unwanted ( and unneeded ) attention of the local " pigs " . But things escalate during a Scorpions wedding in the middle of the field . A girl is raped in a nearby barn and the police and the girl's parents blame the bikers . A few of the local yahoos , including the real rapist and the girl's father , decide to take matters into their own hands . Regardless of the Scorpions ' guilt or innocence , the stage is set for a final showdown . Northville Cemetery Massacre proves that you don't need a big budget to be effective . On a budget of about $1 . 58 , Northville Cemetery Massacre is able to be an entertaining , thought provoking , and unique experience . This is low-budget film-making at its best . Northville Cemetery Massacre's got more atmosphere than a movie with 100 times the budget ( actually , I think the movie's low budget helped to contribute to this ) . I usually reserve the word " atmosphere " to describe horror movies , but it is more than appropriate here . The movie comes off as gritty , dirty , and very realistic . Most of the cast is made up of the members of a real biker gang from Detroit . These aren't actors . And while it does show negatively in some scenes , overall , the real bikers add a sense of realism you couldn't get from a bunch of Hollywood actors . They dress , talk , look , and act like bikers . The final showdown is very nicely done with action , gunplay , and blood galore . And I thought the special effects looked great . I wouldn't doubt that most all of that $1 . 58 budget I mentioned went into the final scenes . Finally , another highlight is the score by Mike Nesmith ( yeah , that Mike Nesmith ) . Most similarly budgeted films do not have music this good . If you're into low-budget 70s exploitation , Northville Cemetery Massacre is one you shouldn't miss .
A restrained Miike	In Takashi Miike's One Missed Call , there's really very little new ground covered . If I've seen one Asian film that revolves around a pale-skinned , long black-haired female ghost , I feel as if I've seen a dozen . Whether One Missed Call is derivative of other Asian horror films or whether it's the other way around , I don't know ( or really care ) . The similarities , though , are undeniable . But it hardly matters when it comes to enjoying the movie . Miike has put together an entertaining and at times frightening tale of a young girl seeking retribution for her death . It's far less bloody and over-the-top than most of Miike's other films , but for the most part , it works . Miike is much more restrained and relies on very subtle moments to create unease in the viewer . One of the best examples is the " ghost in the cupboard " scene . It's a simple moment without a lot of fanfare , but it's very effective in generating the desired response . Other highlights of the film include the death scene at the television studio and the search through the abandoned hospital . These moments help Miike's film standout from the crowded field of similarly themed J-horror films . Whether the plots of these J-horror ghost stories appeal to you or not , as usual , it's difficult to deny the level of artistry and technical brilliance that goes into these films . One Missed Call is no exception . Thanks to some interesting cinematography and lighting , the film has a " look " that helps create an atmosphere of dread . The special effects , both visual and sound , are well done . The acting is good . Both of the leads , Kou Shibasaki and Shin'ichi Tsutsumi , are more than adequate . And Miike's direction expertly creates the desired tension . Overall , it's the kind of well-made Asian horror film that I've come to expect . But One Missed Call isn't without its faults . Beyond the " been there , done that " aspects of the plot , the film's pacing could have been better . While the first and third acts are enjoyable , the middle portion of the One Missed Call tends to drag a bit . Some of the investigation scenes into what's behind the mystery put a halt to what is an otherwise well paced film . A little judicious editing might have helped the film flow better . One Missed Call also includes a number of plot points that are never adequately resolved . For example , why was the mother's dead body in the abandoned hospital ? And could the ending have been more confusing ? I admit that I'm completely at a loss to explain the films finale . That doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it , but don't ask me what it all meant . Maybe a second viewing is necessary to resolve some of these issues .
" From where I sat it looked as though you were conjugating some irregular verbs . "	A string of daring jewel robberies on the French Riviera leads the police to suspect one-time cat-burglar John Robie ( Cary Grant ) . Robie claims to be reformed but the police suspect otherwise . As the police seem so intent on following him instead of looking for the real crook , Robie decides to track down the thief himself . He soon meets and begins a romance with Frances Stevens ( Grace Kelly ) whose mother happens to have her own collection of valuable gems . But when Frances ' mother's jewels are stolen , she naturally suspects Robie . Robie must convince Frances of his innocence and , with her help , finally unmask the real cat-burglar . To Catch a Thief may not have Hitchcock's most suspenseful or intricate plot , but it's certainly one of Hitch's best looking films . Everything is simply beautiful . The French Riviera locations are amazing . Odd , craggy points that lead to the crystal blue ocean are filmed like works of art . It looks better than any travelogue you're likely to see . The old , unique , character-filled buildings make for stunning backdrops to the unfolding story . And , has there ever been a better looking on-screen couple than Grant and Kelly ? I doubt it . These two can make the most mundane of scenes look like a million dollars . As for the plot , it's not overly difficult to figure out who the real burglar is . The movie all but slaps you in the face with the answer . But the fun comes in watching Grant and Kelly get to the final conclusion . The final showdown between the police , Robie , and the cat-burglar is great . Other highlights for me included the swimming scene , the boat scene , and the picnic scene . Unfortunately , I've always felt there were few instances where To Catch a Thief drags a bit . There are a number of scenes where cars drive back and forth along twisting mountainous roads . And while the scenery is breathtaking , a bit more intrigue might have been a plus . Grant and Kelly's charm , however , is generally enough to offset these moments . Overall , it may not be Hitch's best , but I've always enjoyed revisiting To Catch a Thief .
Ju-on or The Grudge - Take Your Pick	- The plot ( and almost everything else ) of Ju-on is almost identical to that of the American remake , The Grudge . When one of the other social workers doesn't show-up for work , one of the newest workers goes to take his place . When the new social worker arrives at the house , she immediately realizes that something is not quite right . What she doesn't realize is that the house is possessed by spirits who will kill anyone they come into contact with . - Comparisons between the Japanese Ju-on and the American The Grudge are inevitable . Overall , I'm one of the seemingly few who enjoyed the American version more than the original Japanese version . Maybe it's just because I watched The Grudge first , but I really think it goes a little deeper than that . As I mentioned previously , the plots are almost identical so there's really no point in trying to pick a favorite . - Things I preferred about The Grudge - 1 . Make-up - I found the more stylized make-up very effective . 2 . Flow - As far as non-linear story's go , The Grudge is one of the best examples I've ever seen . - Things I preferred about Ju-on - 1 . Simplicity - The lack of a lot of extraneous details makes for a tighter movie . 2 . Cast - The fact that Sarah Michelle Gellar isn't in Ju-on is a big plus for me . - Overall , while I may have preferred the American remake , the two movies are actually very close in my mind as far as vehicles of entertainment go .
" Look , we've got four million dollars . We could put Donald Duck in the White House . "	- Four regular guys come up with a plan to rob a South American drug lord of $5 million . The money is locked inside a safe in a heavily guarded compound . Getting to the money proves to be fairly easy . But getting away is another story . In addition to the drug lord's men , the guys are chased by a rebel army who would like to get their hands on the money . - It's amazing how good this relatively unknown movie really is . I had never even heard of it until I found it in the $1 DVD bin at Wal Mart . The plot and cast ( James Coburn , Anthony Quinn , Ernest Borgnine , Cleavon Little , James Brolin , Lindsay Wagner ) looked good , so I decided to " risk " a whole dollar . The movie is definitely worth spending $1 to see . - The movie reminded me of Romancing the Stone - similar setting , similar South American bandits , etc . The biggest difference is that High Risk has a harder edge to it . I mean some of our " heroes " actually get shot and there's a real danger they won't make it through the movie . - I've read that High Risk was released the same weekend as a little , insignificant movie called Raiders of the Lost Arc . Too bad . It looks like High Risk got lost in the shuffle . It definitely deserves a wider audience .
A different type of Bava	- Four Times that Night is the story of what happened during Tina and John's first date . According to Tina , John tried to rape her and she barely escaped with her innocence intact . According to John , Tina was an insatiable wild woman he couldn't get away from . According to John's voyeuristic doorman , while John was in the bedroom having " homosexual sex " , Tina was having her own lesbian encounter . So , just what did happen ? - Mario Bava wasn't afraid to try different genres . He directed Gothic horrors ( Black Sunday ) , gialli ( Blood and Black Lace ) , sword & sandal movies ( Hercules in the Haunted World ) , westerns ( Roy Colt and Winchester Jack ) , spy movies ( Danger Diabolik ) , science fiction ( Planet of the Vampires ) , and so on . But Four Times that Night is his only " sex comedy " . Bava called it his " blue movie " . While it may have represented a departure for Bava , you can clearly see his trademark style all over the movie . Everything from the bright , rich colors to the camera zooms screams Bava . - While I enjoyed the movie , it's far from being my favorite thing that Bava ever made . It is interesting to see how different people's perceptions are given the same set of events . In the fourth segment of the film , we get to see what really happened . And , as is often the case , reality can't match the sensationalism that our imaginations can dream up . - Much of my enjoyment in the movie comes from the casting of John and Tina . Bret Halsey and Daniela Giordano are simply perfect in their roles . They are very believable even in the most absurd situations .
" Our survival hinges on one thing - finding someone who not only can fly this plane , but didn't have fish for dinner . "	It's like dj vu all over again . Until last night , I had never seen Zero Hour ! , but I feel as if I've seen it a dozen times . I knew that some of Airplane ! ( the sick girl and singing nun for example ) came from Airport , but I had no idea just how much was taken from Zero Hour ! Airplane ! is like some weird comedic remake or re-imaging of Zero Hour ! ? and they nailed it right down to the exclamation mark . And it's not just ideas or concepts that were taken from Zero Hour ! , entire sections of dialogue were lifted and used in Airplane ! I'm shocked to discover that lines like " I guess I picked the wrong week to give up smoking " weren't written especially for Airplane ! The dialogue is so similar that when little Joey visits the cockpit and the captain asks if he's ever been in cockpit before , I kept waiting for him to ask " Have you ever seen a grown man naked ? " as he does in Airplane ! Even some of the performances in Airplane ! are eerily reminiscent of Zero Hour ! Take Robert Stack in the role originally done by Sterling Hayden . Amazing stuff ! The funny thing to me about this example , however , is that Hayden is actually more intense in the role than Stack could have dreamed . Giving a rating to Zero Hour ! is difficult . Even if you've only seen Airplane ! once ( and I've probably seen it a couple of dozen times over the years ) , it's all but impossible to keep a straight face ( Who am I kidding ? It's impossible not to downright laugh out loud . ) when Johnny goes to make coffee or when Stryker straights sweating buckets behind the controls of the plane . It's impossible to take the melodrama of Zero Hour ! seriously . So I don't know how I would rate the movie had I never seen Airplane ! I would like to think I would have still enjoyed the experience and would have formed a similar opinion . But I have seen Airplane ! , so I have that built in bias . In the end , because the movie kept me entertained ( for whatever reason ) throughout it's brief 81 minute runtime , I'm rating Zero Hour ! a .
Nice SW Parody	- A group of bandits rob a train of the gold shipment it is carrying . In their escape , the bandits split up . The one thief who knows where the gold is hidden is killed before he is able to talk . Three men have a different part of the " clue " that will lead to the gold . Can the banker , the bandit , and the bounty hunter work together to locate the missing loot ? Or , will they kill each other first ? - The plot is an obvious take-off of Leone's The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly . Various scenes in the movie are also lifted from other films by Leone , Corbucci , and more . But , to me , it's done in a way that doesn't show disrespect to the original work . Instead , Any Gun Can Play lovingly parodies some of the biggest films in Spaghetti Western history . The opening scene of three men riding into town and the final face-off between the three main stars are a wonderful homage to the SWs that came before . - Castellari adds a lot of nice touches of his own - the reflection in the spilled wine , the Stranger's entrance with the vivid red background , and the playful way the gold is discovered in the end . Although highly unbelievable , many of the fight scenes are well staged and directed . Two fight scenes in particular ( the market fight and the bath house fight ) are very nicely done . He is also unafraid to try different things with his camera . Tight close-ups , overhead shots , and shots around corners are all common in Any Gun Can Play . - Another plus is the cast that Castellari had to work with . George Hilton is always good in these movies . Gilbert Roland is literally playing Gilbert Roland . And SW newcomer Edd Byrnes holds his own with the two SW veterans . The supporting cast features , among others , SW regular Gerard Herter . - Any Gun Can Play should not be taken too seriously . Nice touches of humor can be found throughout the movie . If this is possible with an SW , it's more of a " feel good " movie - very reminiscent of some of the Terence Hill / Bud Spencer films .
A " Small " War Movie	- Despite it's grand name , Halls of Montezuma is a small war film . What I mean is that the movie focuses more on a small group of men and their fears and problems than it does on a grand plan for Allied victory . It's a very personal movie . We get to see these men up-close and we begin to develop feelings for them . I wouldn't doubt that this is one of the first films to show a U . S . Lieutenant so battle scarred that he resorts to using pain killers just to function . Unlike other war films of this era , not all of these men are going to make it to the end . War is like that . It doesn't pick and chose people to live because we like them . So in that regard , it's also more realistic than some other war movies made in the 50s . - To succeed as a small , personal war movie as I've described , the cast has to be able to act . This cast does not disappoint . Richard Widmark , Jack Webb , and Karl Malden are all excellent in their respective roles . I was especially impressed with Webb who has an acting style that can grate on the nerves . He's more subdued here and it works . But as good as these three are , Jack Palance is the highlight of the movie for me . He was undoubtedly the most believable . I could really picture him doing the things in real life that were called for in the script . - I have no difficulty recommending Halls of Montezuma to fans of war films . It's a very welcome addition to my DVD collection .
The Quests in Thailand	Dr . Quest is in Thailand doing research with some plants that may prove beneficial to future spaceflights . While there , Race takes the opportunity to visit a giant Buddah deep in the jungle for some pictures . But when Race comes back , something's different . It takes Jonny and Hadji a while to figure it out , but there's definitely something odd going on . Race's old flame , Jade , shows up and quickly confirms the boys ' suspicions - that's not Race Bannon ! Double Danger is a good , solid episode . The whole idea of a double for Race may be a bit hokey ( even I realized how problematic it was as a kid back in the 60s ) , but it presents an unusual , " fun " situation . I've always found it funny that the highly trained double would blow his cover about five seconds after meeting up with the boys . What an idiot ! And calling the monkey " Bandit " is a little to obvious a mistake . Finally , the addition of a woman to the cast like Jade was a very nice , inspired decision . I only wish she could have appeared more often . A few episodes back , I wrote that it's kind of weird that the series was called Jonny Quest when Jonny so often had little to do in each episode . Double Danger is an exception to this comment . It's Jonny's ( and Hadji's ) detective work in this episode that saves the day .
" Terrible ? Is it terrible that I gave him life ? "	After surviving an accidental electrocution , Dan McCormick ( Lon Chaney , Jr . ) comes to the attention of a couple of scientists doing work with the effects of electricity on the human body . While Dr . Lawrence's intentions are very noble and above reproach , Dr . Rigas ( Lionel Atwill ) has other , more " sinister " applications in mind for their experiments . His idea is create , through repeated exposure to extreme levels of electricity , an army of supermen to do his bidding . And Dan McCormick represents the ideal test subject . Man Made Monster might be considered a " lesser " Universal horror film , but it's a good one . I haven't seen it in literally decades and I'm happy to report that it held up rather well . It's not as good as some of Universal's better known films , but it's a solid , entertaining effort . Director George Waggner ( who would go on to direct Chaney in The Wolf Man ) does a marvelous job of keeping things moving at a nice pace . None of the relatively short 59 minutes is wasted . Chaney , always good at playing the sympathetic figure , does so here as well as ever . Atwill has always been underrated in my eyes and he gives one of his most demented performances as Dr . Rigas in Man Made Monster . The special effects are " cool " for the lack of a better word . The glowing Chaney works . Overall , this is one that deserves a much wider audience , especially among horror fans . Even though it's a limited release , hopefully the new R1 DVD release will put Man Made Monster into the hands of more fans .
Might be the most original of the Hammer Dracula's	A young teacher on her way to an all-girls school in Transylvania becomes stranded and must accept the hospitality of the Baroness Meinster . Although the Baroness tells the girl that she lives alone , the young teacher discovers the Baroness ' son chained to a wall in another part of the castle . The naive teacher is smitten by the Baron and helps him to escape . What the girl doesn't realize is that she has unleashed one of Dracula's disciples . What Works : - Peter Cushing . I'm beginning to sound like a broken record when talking about some of these Hammer films . I should just simply make a blanket statement that Cushing is marvelous in almost everything he ever did . The Brides of Dracula is certainly no exception . While watching Cushing's performance , I was reminded of an interview I heard with Christopher Lee where he discussed Cushing's acting idiosyncrasies and the fact that Cushing was never at rest in any scene . Just watch the movements Cushing goes through to remove a pair of gloves . Most people don't go through that kind of movement to get completely undressed . The man was like one of those perpetual motion machines . - The Plot . Of all of Hammer's films with the word " Dracula " in the title , I've always felt that The Brides of Dracula might be the most original when it comes to plot . The whole notion of having to chain your son to the walls of a castle because you fear what he might do as a vampire if he were allowed to go free yet you bring him young women to feed upon is something you just don't see everyday in a horror movie . - The Look . The Brides of Dracula is Hammer at it's finest when it comes to the look of the movie . The rich , vibrant colors were never better displayed than in this movie . In addition , the Meinster Castle is among the best sets I've yet to discover in a Hammer film . Instead of looking cheap and ready to fall apart if touched , this one has a substantial look to it that makes it all the more believable . It's amazing what the people at Hammer were able to accomplish given the size of the budgets with which they worked . What Doesn't Work : - Yvonne Monlaur and David Peel . I doubt Hammer ever made a movie with two leads that I found as unappealing as Monlaur and Peel . Neither actor works for me and both only serve to distract me from what is an otherwise incredibly enjoyable film . - Chains ? I realize this is a minor plot point , but it has always bothered me . The film makes it clear that Baron Meinster has the ability to assume the form of a bat at will . How then does his mother keep him chained with a leg bracelet meant for a human leg ? Couldn't the Baron just turn into a bat and fly out of his shackle ? This is a film that all fans of Hammer should see . The film is absolutely beautiful and Cushing is as good as you would expect . If it weren't for what I consider some poor performances , I would easily rate The Brides of Dracula among my very favorite Hammer films .
A different sort of Stanwyck	I love the alternate title for Lady of Burlesque . Just imagine seeing The G-String Murders on a marquee in 1943 ! How incredible would that have been ? While the movie isn't as lurid as either title might suggest , it's a very enjoyable little film . Lady of Burlesque is the story of the murder of a dancer backstage at a burlesque show . Dixie Daisy ( Barbara Stanwyck ) is immediately the prime suspect , but there is no shortage of people who didn't care for the victim and wanted her out of the way . There was a time , actually quite recently , when I didn't think I cared much for Barbara Stanwyck . Growing up , I had seen her in the television show The Big Valley and as I didn't like it , I thought I didn't care for Barbara Stanwyck . I have completely changed that opinion . Stanwyck could play the tough-as-nails woman with the best of them . In many of her movies , she comes across as a woman who won't take anything from anybody . She plays a similar character in Lady of Burlesque . Sure , it's a little softer character and less of a man-eater than I'm accustomed to , but Dixie Daisy can hold her own . You're not going to push her around . And I give Stanwyck credit for attempting something different in Lady of Burlesque . Singing and dancing do not appear to have been her forte , but she gives it a try . Beyond Stanwyck , the two things I enjoyed most in Lady of Burlesque are the mystery elements of the story and the dialogue . I'm a sucker for a good 40s style mystery and this movie comes through . The backstage set with the various dark passageways , dressing rooms , and stairs provides a great set-up for a mystery . It's a fun one to play along with and the final reveal really caught me off guard . The pacing of the film is good with the character dialogue being the driving force . I was reminded on more than one of occasion of the Howard Hawks ' films I enjoy so much . The characters in Lady of Burlesque speak in that same snappy , witty manner I associate with Hawks . It's nicely done . The weakest part of Lady of Burlesque are the on-stage song and dance numbers . These scenes really drag things down . I have trouble believing anyone ever actually found this type of entertainment scandalous . To me , it's rather dull , unfunny , and not very entertaining .
" Women are the wave of the future , and sisterhood is stronger than anything ! "	- During a dogfight with a Nazi plane , Major Steve Trevor ( Lyle Waggoner ) is shot down over the Bermuda Triangle . He is rescued by the all-female inhabitants of the uncharted Paradise Island . Escorting Trevor back to the U . S . , Princess Diana ( Lynda Carter ) stays to do whatever she can as Wonder Woman to help the Allies defeat the Nazis . She is soon up to her bracelets in a Nazi plot to bomb the U . S . mainland . - The New Original Wonder Woman was the pilot movie for the television show . I'll admit upfront that this is hardly award winning material . But , that's not the point . It's a helluva lot of fun . It's a campy , cheese filled good time . Don't watch this movie expecting a tension filled WWII drama . Instead , the movie presents a whole cast of bumbling Nazi's for Wonder Woman to thwart . - One of the things that makes the movie work for me is the cast . For the most part , both Lynda Carter and Lyle Waggoner play their characters with a straight face . But there is a hint of playfulness that's infectious . When you consider that this was the first movie that Carter had ever starred in , it's amazing that she was able to pull-off the character of Wonder Woman . - The New Original Wonder Woman is definitely a product of its time . Television shows have become so serious that something as cheesy and fun as this just wouldn't fly next to shows like CSI and Law and Order . But , in the 70s , Wonder Woman and Lynda Carter were nothing short of cultural phenomenons . Everything about the show ( the costume , the bullets and bracelets trick , the golden lasso , the " spin " , etc . ) is ingrained into anyone who grew up with it .
If it weren't for those meddling kids . . . . . .	As much as I enjoy Murder Mansion , don't take my enthusiasm for the film as some kind of recommendation . Although I don't like the term , I am fully aware that Murder Mansion is a " guilty pleasure " of mine . I realize that it's not really a very good movie , but I love it just the same . So watch it at your own risk and don't blame me if you don't like it . You've been warned ! If you do decide to give Murder Mansion a try , here's what you can expect : an incoherent plot that makes no sense regardless of the number of times I watch it ; a beginning that seems to be leading nowhere ; most likely , a bad , chopped-up transfer ; silly dialogue ; and plot holes big enough to drive a truck through . You'll also find what I call one of the best Scooby Doo moments I've seen . All that's missing is the " If it weren't for those meddling kids " line .
" Crackers ! I'd rather have fresh panties in Teaneck , New Jersey . "	IMDb's short plot synopsis is written better than anything I can come up with ? " Three thieves rip off a shipment of used money being sent back to the US . As they are escaping the robbery ( after having taken a hostage ) , they wind up on an island in a hotel with an apparently crazed manager and a building full of demented residents . " If you're a fan of over-the-top , campy , Euro-heist films , Dog Eat Dog has got it all . Let's see ? mix the iconic Jayne Mansfield , genre favorite Cameron Mitchell , $1 , 000 , 000 in stolen cash , a mysterious killer , a ( supposedly ) deserted island , and a jazzy score and you've got Dog Eat Dog . It may not be what some critics and others would call a " good " movie , but if you like this sort of stuff , it's a winner . These are some of the most eccentric characters I've run across . Jayne Mansfield plays Darlene , the negligee wearing female member of the gang of thieves . She has an annoying habit of beginning each sentence with the expression " Crackers ! " I'm not sure why or what it means , but it's a hoot . She's also a complete nymphomaniac . Cameron Mitchell is the real tough guy of the group . He receives a head wound early on and refuses to wipe the blood and dirt off the side of his face for the entire movie ? even though the film takes place of a couple of days time . Then there's the crazy old woman who owns the only house on the island . A nuttier old coot I don't think I've seen . You could spend considerable time just trying to figure her out . And that's just for starters . You've also got the hyena laughing third robber , the bald German butler , the hotel manger out for himself , or the hotel manager's virginal sister . It's this bizarre cast of characters each out for themselves that makes Dog Eat Dog so much fun .
" Get out your card decks and backgammon boards , lucky Buck is back ! "	Buck Rogers in the 25th Century was the pilot movie that set-up the television series of the same name . I doubt there's anyone with even a passing interest in science fiction who doesn't know the basic plot : After having spent 500 years floating in space in a state of suspended animation , Buck Rogers is revived by aliens from Draconia . The Draconians are headed to Earth on a supposedly peaceful mission . Buck learns that things aren't as they appear and the Draconians have another , more sinister purpose for their visit . The Earthlings are quite naturally suspicious of Buck and his wild claims that the approaching Draconian envoy is really an attack force in disguise . Buck must adjust to his new surroundings , prove his loyalty to those left on Earth , and help defeat the Draconians . If you're looking for a deep , meaningful storyline , big budget special effects , or award caliber acting , Buck Rogers in the 25th Century probably isn't for you . But if you just go with it and take it about as seriously as the people who made it seem to be taking it , Buck Rogers in the 25th Century can be a fun , entertaining experience . The movie is fast paced and full of interesting eye candy . The plot , though predictable , provides enough interest to hold your attention throughout . The acting is serviceable at the worst . Gil Gerrard and Erin Gray make for very likable and watchable leads . And anything with the great Henry Silva can't be all bad . One thing I get a kick out of watching Buck Rogers in the 25th Century some 30 years after it was made is the " look " of the film . ( SARCASM WARNING ) It's amazing how much the 25th Century feels like the late 70s with the spandex pants , lip gloss , and electronic disco music . ( END SARCASM WARNING ) I guess my only complaint is that some of the comedy is misplaced and fails to hit its mark . The robot Twiki can be especially annoying .
Not quite as good as Don't Torture a Duckling	- A mentally unbalanced woman tells her therapist about a recent dream involving her neighbor . In the dream , Carol Hammond ( Florinda Bolkan ) violently murders her neighbor . A few days later , the neighbors body is found . Suspicion immediately falls on Carol - her fingerprints are on the knife , her scarf is on the body , and her fur coat is on the floor . Was it a dream or did Carol really commit murder ? - I cannot begin to express how long I've been waiting for this movie to be released . The street date was pushed back several times over the course of about two years . And , this my be the reason I didn't enjoy it as much as I had hoped . My expectations were ridiculously high . It would have been difficult for any movie to live up to the lofty expectations I had placed on A Lizard in a Woman's Skin . - Several things in the movie really worked for me . Chief among them is the ending . The last 20 or so minutes of the movie are a mystery lovers dream . Every single character comes under suspicion of having committed the murder . And there are plenty of suspects - Carol , her husband , her daughter , her father , the hippie , and anyone else who has more than 5 minutes of screen time . It wouldn't have surprised me had the police detective arrested himself . Just when you believe you've got it all figured out , the spotlight shifts to someone else . It's not until the very last moments of the movie that everything becomes clear . - Some things , however , did not work for me . The first third of the movie is incredibly slow . Other than the murder , nothing much happens . The time is spent on developing the idea that Carol is crazy . It's not very thrilling . - The new Region 1 DVD comes with two different versions of the movie . The cleaned-up widescreen transfer is actually the cut American version known as Schizoid . The second disc has the uncut version , only it's not as good of a print and it's foolscreen . The difference between the two versions appears to be about 5 or so minutes of added gore and nudity . So , beware before you buy . - While I enjoyed the movie , I didn't find it nearly as enjoyable as Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling . But , it's going to take more than this viewing to make me a real fan . My expectations got in the way this time .
" Small things sometimes tell large story . "	Gravelle ( Boris Karloff ) , a former opera singer who is accused of killing his wife and her lover , is an amnesia victim living in a sanitarium . A newspaper story on the opera sparks some memory in his brain and he escapes to get his revenge on those who did him wrong . A murder at the opera house appears to be the handiwork of Gravelle . But Charlie Chan ( Warner Oland ) is not so sure . Can Chan put a stop to the murders and find Gravelle before anyone else dies ? Charlie Chan at the Opera is a very nice installment in the Chan series . And by all rights it should considering it's probably the " biggest " Chan film that Fox made . The movie is entertaining from beginning to end with very few dull moments . Even the opera scenes , which have importance to the plot , don't put a drag on the movie like they could have . Oland is in fine form as Chan and never played the character any better . And it's an incredible joy for me to see two of my favorites , Oland and Karloff , on the screen at the same time . It's heady stuff ! The supporting cast is strong with William Demarest making the perfect foil for Oland . Also , the sets go a long way to making this one a winner . The backstage of an opera house has always been a good setting for a mystery . Until I did some reading recently on the internet , I honestly had no idea that so many people considered Charlie Chan at the Opera to be one of the best of the series . While it's got a lot going for it , I can't rank it quite that highly . My biggest problem ( and I'm sure I'll get killed for this ) with the movie is the plot . I find the mystery elements of Charlie Chan at the Opera to be lacking . The resolution to the mystery seems to rely as much on " dumb luck " ( for the lack of a better phrase ) and other strange circumstances than it does on actual detection . But this is really all so insignificant when your having this much fun with a movie !
" Quick , get her to a doctor . And send the clowns in . "	A plastic surgeon ( Dr . Rossiter ) , who has just butchered the face of a patient , is on the run . After having an accident and requiring plastic surgery himself , he and his assistants travel to France so the doctor may start anew with a new face and name . After a fatal accident to the owner of a circus , Dr . Rossiter takes over . He soon discovers that he can continue his plastic surgery experiments by operating on murderers , thieves , and prostitutes who all just happen to have some sort of facial deformity or scar . The patients , also with new identities , go to work for the doctor in his circus . The doctor keeps them in line and working through blackmail . As he knows their true identities , they are reluctant to leave . Soon , however , some of the patients become restless and try to ' escape ' the doctor . Dr . Rossiter , through a series of ' accidents ' , makes sure they don't , thereby keeping his secret . Any more of the story would be too much . Circus of Horrors is a very visually pleasing film . The film's makers appear to have been heavily influenced by the Hammer movies being produced at the time . The lavish colors , costumes , and sets are very Hammer-like . And , like many of the Hammer movies , this one must have been quite shocking for its time . As an example , a knife throwing scene turns particularly nasty . The movie also features some wonderful acting . Anton Diffring is especially sinister as the mad doctor . Donald Pleasence , in a small role , highlights an above average supporting cast . The only problem I have with the movie is its tendency to lose focus . Too often , circus scenes seem to go on a little too long and drag the movie down to a snail's pace .
Hadji's story and Jesse White	Through a flashback , " Calcutta Adventure " tells the story of how Hadji came to live with the Quest family . In this episode , Dr . Quest is in India lecturing at a local university . However , he has another , more dangerous purpose for being in India . He's looking for a secret nerve gas factory . When a young Indian named Hadji saves Dr . Quest's life , the Quests ask Hadji if he'll be their guide . The group heads for the mountains as the attempts on Dr . Quest's life continue . He's eventually taken prisoner in the secret nerve gas factory and , in exciting fashion , must be rescued by Race ? with some help from an enterprising man named Pasha Peddler . Overall , this is a solid episode . But then again , any episode that includes Hadji's back-story and how he came to live with the Quests is going to be worth watching . " Calcutta Adventure " features a lot of good action and creepy bad guys . The underground lair is also a nice touch . As for Pasha Peddler , he's easily one of the best ancillary characters in the first seven episodes . He's kind of like the Mr . Haney of India . It doesn't hurt that he was voiced by legendary character actor Jesse White . That voice is unmistakable ? regardless of how un-Indian it might sound .
Trashy Fun	- Wilma McClatchie ( Angie Dickinson ) wants more for her two daughters than depression era Texas can provide . With no money to speak of they set off for California to find their fortunes . Along the way , they rob a bank , pick up a bank robber , mug a preacher , steal the take from a racetrack , take on a penniless drifter from Kentucky , kidnap an heiress , and kill a few people . It's just an ordinary cross-county trip . - This is one of my favorite of the Roger Corman produced movies . I realize that it's basically trash , but what fun trash it is . Around every turn there's a robbery , a car chase , a gun fight , or someone having sex . These people are ruthless and will do whatever it takes to get the money they desire . Amid the violence , though , the movie is not without it's moments of comedy . The opening wedding service is simply sublime . I actually found myself laughing out loud . - The cast that Corman was able to assemble rivals that of the best movies from the 70s . Angie Dickinson , William Shatner , Tom Skerritt , and Dick Miller are wonderfully cast . But my personal favorite is Susan Sennett , playing one of the daughters . As far as I'm concerned , she steals every scene in which she appears . It's a shame she didn't make more movies .
Nice and Twisted	- Deranged is a Ed Gein type story - a man takes care of his elderly mother and knows nothing else . After her death , he discovers he can't get on without her so he decides to dig her up and bring her home . She's been in the ground for over a year so she needs some work . In a matter of time , the graverobber discovers that fresh , living tissue will work better on Mama than dead tissue . - I really enjoy it when I stumble across a film that I've somehow missed over the years . I finally picked-up the Motel Hell / Deranged disc from MGM . The reason was Motel Hell , not having heard much about Deranged . Discovering Deranged on the flip side of the disc was like finding money under a couch cushion - a very nice surprise . It's got most everything one could ask for in a horror movie - twisted characters , flowing blood , a familiar but compelling story , and dead bodies everywhere . But the thing that most impressed me was the acting . Roberts Blossom gives an outstanding performance as Ezra Cobb . There are actually moments when you forget you're watching an actor and really believe what the character is doing . Blossom did that for me . It was as if I was watching a real person . Mannerisms , facial expressions , voice , look , and actions seem absolutely real . - Even though the MGM disc is cut , I still found many of the scenes very violent . I thought the waitress ' death was brutal until I saw what Ezra had in store for the hardware clerk . It's not for the squeamish and not something you see in movies made today . It's raw and brutal . There's " real " violence without a happy ending . The movie is not , however , without a touch or two of comedy that work on some level . The best of these scenes is the contact with the spirit world scene . I actually laughed out loud . - If you can find the Motel Hell / Deranged MGM disc , I would highly recommend it .
I hope Argento finishes the trilogy	- As the second movie in Argento's Three Mother's trilogy , it's hard to watch Inferno without comparing it to Suspiria . And that's not really a fair comparison . Inferno has its moments of brilliance . The opening scenes as Rose ( Irene Miracle ) lowers herself into the flooded room are what horror movies are all about . It's easily one of my favorite moments from an Argento film , second only to the opening murder in Suspiria . The atmosphere , tension , and horror are overflowing . The first time I saw the movie , this scene had me literally squirming in my seat . - But Inferno also features what I feel are some of the worst moments to be found in an Argento film . Take the ending as an example . It's a real let down . The entire movie builds to the discovery of the second of the Three Mothers and it's over before it really gets started . Our hero ( Leigh McCloskey ) meets her , she transforms into Death , he runs away , and the building burns - end of movie . This evil creature whom we have waited to see the entire movie does nothing once we finally see her . - The look of Inferno is awesome . Inferno is like Suspiria on steroids . It's real eye-candy for the Argento fan . The use of colors , set direction , and lighting are about the best I've seen . - Keith Emerson's score is adequate . While it lacks some of the punch of a Goblin score , it suits the mood of the film nicely . Most of the acting is also adequate , with Daria Nicolodi's small role being my favorite . It's too bad she wasn't in more of the movie . While McCloskey and Miracle do nothing special , neither is a liability .
A " lesser " Lewton is still a solid movie	Tom Merriman ( Russell Wade ) is the new 3rd Officer on a ship headed down the coast of Mexico . Merriman meets and , at first , likes his new skipper , Captain Wade Stone ( Richard Dix ) . However , a series of unfortunately events has Merriman questioning his first impression of Captain Stone . Merriman believes the Captain is going mad and must report him to a company representative . But at what price ? Won't Merriman's life be in danger if her reports the Captain ? I suppose I would consider The Ghost Ship a " lesser " Lewton film . When compared with some of the Lewton classics like The Cat People , I Walked with a Zombie , and The Body Snatcher , it doesn't come out looking too good . On its own , The Ghost Ship is a slow moving story with a nice payoff in the end . Those desiring a quick , thrill-a-minute had best find another movie . This one takes its sweet time building to the conclusion . Like all Lewton films , given the budgetary constraints Lewton worked within , it's amazing how technically sound these movie are and how good they look . Lightening , cinematography , and sets are as good as any you'll find in a film from the 40s . Take the sets as an example . The outdoor locations of San Sebastian were obviously shot on a back lot and made for some other movie . But with the expert way these sets were shot , to me at least , makes them look authentic . Of note in the acting department is Richard Dix as the Captain . He has a way of speaking that , while at first off-putting , later becomes genuinely creepy . In addition to the voice , you can actually see the madness evident in Dix's eyes . The rest of the cast is solid at worst . Overall , while I'll never consider The Ghost Ship one of Lewton's best films , I enjoy it each time I get the opportunity for a revisit .
David Suchet may be the definitive Poirot	I believe that I've always loved Agatha Christie's books . When I was younger , I can remember reading and re-reading each one , especially those with Hercule Poirot , over and over . I've probably read most of her books at least 3 times . So it only seems natural that I would be a fan of and enjoy movies adapted from Christie's mysteries . The big-budget Hollywood films like Death on the Nile and Murder on the Orient Express are among my favorite films . But for whatever reason , over the years , I have passed on most chances to watch Poirot with David Suchet on television . I had caught the odd episode here and there , but they were not a priority . I've decided to change that and give them a try . It's odd that I would start my journey through the series with The ABC Murders . Of all the Poirot novels , it's one of my least favorite . Most of the problems I have with the novel are the same as those I have with the movie . The biggest issue I have is the story's structure , including the final reveal . For my money , we as viewers ( and readers ) discover far too early the identity of A . B . C . We know who the man is , what he looks like , and what he's doing . And , while the film does bring all the characters together for Poirot to make the big reveal as to the murder's identity , for lack of a better description , it lacks some of that good old English drawing room feel that I really enjoy . It's almost an afterthought without the power usual found in Christie's endings . Getting past my petty quibbles with the story's structure , the movie is very nicely done . As much as I enjoy Peter Ustinov and Albert Finney in the role of the Belgian detective , David Suchet may be the definitive Poirot . He seems closer in my mind to fitting Christie's description of Poirot than anyone else I've seen . He's quite remarkable in the role . The rest of the acting is just as good , with A . B . C . himself , Donald Sumpter , giving a wonderful performance . The film's pace is snappy and the direction is solid . Considering what I assume to be a modest budget , the 1930s sets and costuming are dead-on perfect . The film has a wonderful look to it . Overall , the positive far outweigh the preconceived negatives I had in my mind making The ABC Murders quite an enjoyable experience . I'm looking forward to visiting the other episodes in the series . If the other films in the series are this entertaining as The ABC Murders , I'm in for a real treat .
Now that was fun !	From what little I can find on the internet about Gorilla at Large , it seems that Anne Bancroft viewed the movie with disdain and wasn't at all proud of her appearance . Well , as far as I'm concerned , you can have your Academy Award for The Miracle Worker and you can have the incredibly dull The Graduate ? who needs them ? You can look down on Gorilla at Large , but I'd rather watch it any day over either The Miracle Worker or The Graduate . Why ? It's just more fun ! Call it cheesy , call it campy , call it whatever you want ? bottom line , Gorilla at Large is one entertaining movie . What's not to like ? A Technicolor 3-D ( though I saw it in 2-D ) murder mystery where a gorilla is one of the prime suspects ? how cool is that ? I mean any movie with a gorilla that is so obviously played by a guy in a suit and a director that has the cajones to have a character put on another gorilla suit is okay with me . Two gorillas for the price of one ? can't go wrong with that . In addition to the dismissive Anne Bancroft , Gorilla at Large has a very impressive cast . The resolute Raymond Burr , the cigar-chomping Lee J . Cobb , a baby-faced Lee Marvin , genre favorite Cameron Mitchell , and the most famous man in a gorilla suit , George Barrows , are all on hand for the fun . I realize that most of these actors were in the early stages of their careers , but what's the likelihood of getting two or even three " names " in a movie . Gorilla at Large has a known name or face at every turn . Amazing ! Overall , I had a great time watching Gorilla at Large . It's too bad Anne Bancroft never saw the fun in this movie .
" I may sound like a lunatic , but I'm not crazy ! "	Gillian Holroyd ( Kim Novak ) is a witch . Secretly , she's attracted to her quite normal neighbor Shep Henderson ( James Stewart ) . She casts a spell on Shep that forces him to dump his fianc and fall for her . Things are going along quite nicely until Gillian discovers she really cares for this mortal man . She decides to tell him her secret . But how will Shep react when he finds out that he was " tricked " into falling in love with Gillian ? As far as light-hearted 1950s comedies go , Bell Book and Candle is good , but nothing spectacular . It's an enjoyable enough watch and should appeal to almost anyone who sits down with it . Just don't go into the movie expecting the greatest thing since sliced bread . The movie's cute , funny at times , and touching in the end . Kim Novak and James Stewart do their best and have some real chemistry . Novak ( as others have pointed out ) looks quite incredible in an understated sort of way . The supporting cast with Jack Lemmon , Hermione Gingold , and Elsa Lanchester is often laugh-out-loud funny and steals a lot of the spotlight from Novak and Stewart . The biggest problem I see is that Bell Book and Candle can't quite decide what kind of movie it wants to be . Is it a screwball comedy ? Is it a romantic comedy ? Is it a supernatural comedy ? Had director Richard Quine stuck with just one approach , the movie might have been even better and more memorable .
I'll take the Daughter over the Daddy	To be honest , I've never been the biggest fan of the original Dracula . To me , Dracula never held the excitement of some of the other Universal classics . It always seemed too " stagey " for my liking . That's not the case with Dracula's Daughter . Gloria Holden is mesmerizing as Dracula's daughter , Countess Marya Zaleska . Her attitude , look , and performance are what one would expect from a vampire . She plays a vampire in a similar manner to the way Lon Chaney , Jr . played a wolf man - as a tormented soul , longing to be free from a curse . You can almost hear Larry Talbot asking to be released from his nightmare . The rest of the cast is also quite good . Edward Van Sloan is back as Von Helsing . Irving Pichel is especially creepy as the Countess ' henchman Sandor . Marguerite Churchill is a real cutey playing the female in trouble . The weakest cast member is the hero played by Otto Kruger . His character is too unsympathetic to be effective . The atmosphere is just right . From the fog shrouded London streets to the castle in Transylvania , the perfect horror atmosphere is achieved . The story is simple and straight forward . I would , perhaps , have preferred a few more twists along the way . I'll take Dracula's offspring ( either son or daughter ) any day to the original .
The film's good , but Nero gives an uncharacteristically bad performance	What do you do when you've been beaten , robbed , and kidnapped and you don't feel the police are doing enough to find those responsible for the crime ? If you're Carlo Antonelli ( Franco Nero ) you take matters into your own hands and go after the bad guys yourself . This is the basic premise of Enzo Castellari's Street Law . It's an action packed film with enough gun battles , car chases , and bloodshed to make the most ardent of fans happy . Some of the violence may seem a little far fetched , but that only adds to the fun . Castellari certainly has an eye for action sequences and films these scenes with some interesting camera work . The film does drag a bit during some of the more dialogue heavy scenes as Nero delivers another of his endless speeches railing against the police . The supporting cast is good with Giancarlo Prete giving a standout performance . The other name in the cast , Barbara Bach , is so underutilized that I forgot she was in the movie a couple of times . As hard as this may be to believe , Franco Nero is actually the weak link in Street Law . Some of his reaction shots are ridiculous . Nero's character gets the stuffing beat out of him several times in the film . During these beatings , Nero has a look of complete astonishment on his face as if he didn't realize these baddies were going to beat him up if he kept interfering with them . This is just one example , but Nero needlessly overacts in several other scenes throughout the film . I don't know if it was Nero's fault or if Castellari is to blame , but it hurts the film .
Nice mix of Giallo and Gothic horror	Lord Alan Cunningham has been a troubled man since the death of his wife . The only release he can find from his torment is by luring women that remind him of his dead wife to his castle and then brutally murdering them . That is until he meets Gladys . The two are quickly married and Lord Cunningham appears to be cured . But a series of strange events involving the possibility that his first wife has returned from the grave seems to send him over the edge . The Night Evelyn Came Out of the Grave is one part Giallo and one part Gothic horror . It's not the greatest example of either sub-genre you'll run across , but I was reasonably entertained throughout . There are plenty of twists and turns in the plot to keep you guessing up to the very end . While I've seen enough of these Gialli that I'm rarely surprised anymore , there's no way I could have predicted all the twists in the last act . The acting is about average for this kind of film , but it was nice to see Marina Malfatti with a large role as Gladys . Most of the rest of the cast will be familiar to fans of 70s Italian films . A word of warning about the DVD ? there are a bunch of El Cheapo DVD companies out there that offer The Night Evelyn Came Out of the Grave . One appears to be about as good as the other . The best that can be said about these DVDs is that they are watchable ( and I'm being generous ) . If this sounds like a movie that would be of interest , I've read that NoShame DVD has acquired the Region 1 rights . Based on their track record , it should be worth waiting for . I'll definitely upgrade once it's released . Edit ( ) : NoShame's new DVD of The Night Evelyn Came Out of the Grave is , in a word , stunning - especially when compared with what's been available until now in Region 1 . I have a new appreciation for the film and actually enjoyed it much more than I did just a couple of months ago . It's like watching a whole different movie .
" These psychologists , most of them are balmy themselves . "	A series of random , seemingly insignificant thefts at her sister's boarding house has Miss Lemon quite agitated . A ring , light bulbs , a rucksack , a lighter , a stethoscope , a shoe ? there seems to be no rhyme or reason to any of it . Miss Lemon asks her employer , the great Belgian detective Hercule Poirot , to look into the matter . But what Poirot sees is something far more sinister than Miss Lemon could have imagined . And Poirot's fears are confirmed when one of the students living in the boarding house if found murdered . It's up to Poirot to bring a killer to justice . Hickory Dickory Dock is a solid , but not spectacular , entry in the long running Poirot series . I appreciate how faithful the script is to Agatha Christie's original story . I realize that certain liberties had to be taken , but I appreciate the effort nonetheless . The major points of the mystery are all there ? the petty thefts , the boarding house , the students , the ripped rucksack , and , of course , Poirot's ability to see something sinister going on before it actually happens . With a few exceptions , the cast of students is almost as I pictured them . Damian Lewis and Jessica Lloyd standout among the group . As mush as I always enjoy David Suchet's Poirot , I get a real kick out of the episodes with Phillip Jackson's Inspector Japp and Pauline Moran's Miss Lemon . This episode is a real treat as Miss Lemon gets more screen time than usual . Finally , I enjoyed the use of the ever present mouse as an observer of the activities in the hostel . It's a fun little play on the Hickory Dickory Dock title . I realized while re-watching Hickory Dickory Dock just what a tremendous influence Agatha Christie's work was on the highly stylized Italian mystery films , or Gialli , of the 60s and 70s . Take the murder of Mrs . Nicoletis as an example . If you were to bump up the graphic nature of the scene , you would have something straight out of an early 70s Giallo . In fact , the entire plot of Hickory Dickory Dock could have been used in a Giallo . It's just convoluted and interesting enough to have worked .
The Bride of Hammer's Frankenstein	This entry in Hammer's Frankenstein series finds Baron Frankenstein ( Peter Cushing ) continuing his experiments with the help of Dr . Hertz and his servant , Hans . The Baron is working on capturing a soul and placing it in another body . When Hans is accused of killing his girlfriend's father and put to death , the Baron has the chance to put part of his theories to the test by capturing Hans ' soul . As chance would have it , Hans ' girlfriend , Christina , commits suicide providing Baron Frankenstein a body for Hans ' soul . While it seems the Baron has finally succeeded , his new creation , a combination of the wrongly accused Hans and grief-stricken Christina , is actually plotting and carrying out a series of revenge killings against those responsible for her father's death . The differences between Frankenstein Created Woman and the other entries in the series should be quite obvious to anyone familiar with Hammer . The most obvious is the Baron's creation . Unlike the other films where Baron Frankenstein succeeds in creating a monster , here he has created a being capable of moving undetected throughout society . She's a beautiful woman adept at using her charms to help her ensnare her would be victims . She's bright , cunning , and deadly . It's quite the lethal combination . Peter Cushing was never better . Cushing is such a pleasure to watch in most anything he did . He's a whirlwind of energy and never dull . In Frankenstein Created Woman , he's given more of an opportunity to show the human side of the Baron . He's allowed to actually be funny and show a sympathetic nature toward his creation . Yet he's completely focused and believable in the pursuit of his goals . Some of my favorite moments in the film involve the Baron's quips directed toward the rather addle minded Dr . Hertz . Thorley Walters couldn't be better as Dr . Hertz . He makes a perfect target for Frankenstein's barbs . The pair are a lot of fun to watch . Susan Denberg is more than adequate as the Baron's creation . It's a shame that she appears to have " burned out " so early in her career . She may not have been the greatest actress of all time , but I would have enjoyed the opportunity to see her in other films .
Nice Spaghetti Western	Nice Spaghetti Western . The story concerns four rival groups out to get a chest full of gold . While the plot is actually almost incomprehensible , it's fun to watch Sartana and others switch allegiances about every five minutes . But the story here is secondary to the action . The body count is very high with entire gangs being wiped out by the burst of a Gatling gun . Gianni Garko as Sartana and William Berger as Lasky are just fun to watch . It's not the best Spaghetti Western I've seen , but I'm glad to finally have a copy . While the movie prominently lists Klaus Kinski in the credits , his screen time totals about 10 minutes .
" The tender boughs of innocence burn first , and the wind rises , and then all goodness is in jeopardy . "	- This film is essentially a prequel to the television series Twin Peaks . The movie begins one year before the television show with two FBI agents investigating the death of a waitress , Teresa Banks . After a half-hour , the focus of the movie switches to events that take place in the week that leads up to the murder of Laura Palmer ( Sheryl Lee ) . The events during the last week of Laura's life are filled with drugs , alcohol , and sex , and her murder is extremely brutal and violent . At this point , the television series begins . And things lighten-up quite a bit . - The primary focus of the movie is the relationship between Laura Palmer and her father , Leland Palmer ( Ray Wise ) . While Lee is adequate in the role of Laura , Wise excels at giving life to Leland . His ability to express emotion ( fear , sadness , rage , etc . ) is amazing , if not a little over the top . Another actor / character worth mentioning is Frank Silva as Bob . His character and performance are among the most frightening I've ever seen . - As I said , Lynch has a lot of different things going on in the movie . Many are not really essential to the plot and could have , perhaps , been left out . For example , the first thirty minutes has almost nothing to do with what follows . Lynch could have shortened the movie to 90 minutes and made a tighter film that might have better appealed to an audience beyond the built-in television audience . In my mind , the " padding " contained in this movie is its greatest weakness . - While the original television series presented life in a quirky town that could never exist in reality , the movie takes the bizarre nature of the town and stretches it to the point of non-believability . Take the scene with David Bowie as an example . He is seen walking down the hall at an FBI office and entering the office of his superior . As he gets halfway to the desk , he disappears . No one seems overly surprised - they act as if it is a normal part of the day . - I was a huge fan of the television series during its initial run and was very excited when I first heard that Lynch was making this movie . While I enjoyed Twin Peaks : Fire Walk with Me , I doubt I would have liked it nearly as much if I hadn't seen the series before I went to the theater . I don't think a non-fan of the show would have a clue about what was happening on screen .
Excellent horror film with a weak ending	Mun ( Angelica Lee ) is a young woman who has been blind since she was two years old . A cornea replacement surgery offers hope of being able to see . But once Mun's vision is restored , she gets more than she bargained for . She is bombarded with images of places and people that don't quite seem right . Mun sees ghosts . But that's not the worst of it . When presented with a picture of herself , Mun realizes that the image in the picture is not the same woman she sees when she looks in the mirror . The first half or so of The Eye is an incredibly creepy little film . There are moments like the elevator scene or the first time we see what Mun sees in the mirror that had me sitting on the edge of my seat . It's all very nicely handled . But the film switches its narrative tone about half way through much to its detriment . The Eye goes from being a subtle , effective horror film to being a special effects extravaganza . The Pang Brothers appear to have the same problem ending a movie that a lot of Hollywood filmmakers seem to have ? if you can't come up with an ending , blow something up . Had the movie ended when Mun discovered the secret of her new eyes , it would have been a better movie and worthy of a higher rating . The acting in The Eye is as good as I've seen in a modern Asian horror film . I've only seen Angelica Lee in one other film ( Koma ) , but she's quickly become a real favorite of mine . The two roles I've seen her play are vastly different yet Lee handles each in a believable , very enjoyable way . While The Eye may not be the best Asian horror film I've seen , the first half makes it more than a worthwhile watch . I'm looking forward to getting a chance to see The Eye 2 .
Another good one from the other Sergio	Joe vows revenge against a band of outlaws who have been killing and scalping his Indian brethren for bounties . Joe meets up with some folks in a town being threatened by the same outlaws . Joe sees this as his chance to get even with the cutthroats and offers his assistance to the townspeople ? for a price . But can one seemingly ill-equipped Indian defeat a large group of outlaws armed to the teeth ? Navajo Joe is best known as the only Spaghetti Western Burt Reynolds made and that's too bad . Burt is okay ? he neither adds much nor takes much away . Regardless of whether Burt is in it or not , it's a solid , early Spaghetti Western from the second best known Sergio ? Sergio Corbucci . I've said it before , but if it weren't for Sergio Leone , Sergio Corbucci would probably be regarded as the best director to have worked in Spaghetti Westerns . Navajo Joe isn't anywhere close to being as good as some of his other films ( Django , The Great Silence , etc . ) , but it's enjoyable enough and offers one of the few examples where Indian characters play even a small role in a Euro-Western . Sure , there are plot holes and characters routinely take the most stupid course of action available to them , but it's all good fun . Ennio Morricone is , in my opinion , the greatest composer to ever work in films . His score for Navajo Joe is another winner . It may not be as well known as his work on Leone's Dollars Trilogy , but it's almost as good . Here , Morricone successfully combines Indian-style rhythms and chants with his traditional Spaghetti Western sound . I enjoyed it so much that I think I'll try to track down a copy .
" You've been taken to the cleaners , and you don't even know your pants are off . "	- Having grown tired of the rat race and cramped living conditions of New York City , Jim Blandings ( Cary Grant ) finds a property in the country for his wife and children . He's hoping to find the simple life . But , building a house proves to be anything but simple . As the headaches and the bills start piling up , so do the laughs . Will Mr . Blanding's ever get his dream house ? - What makes this movie so special is the three main actors - Grant , Myrna Loy , and Melvyn Douglas . Any of three are capable of carrying a movie on their own , so when you combine their talents , almost every scene is special . Grant has always been a favorite of mine in this type of role . He is so good at playing the put upon husband . Loy is a always a joy to watch . The Thin Man films she made with William Powell are near perfect . And Douglas has become a favorite of mine over the last two or three years . Douglas also appeared in The Old Dark House , a particular favorite of mine . - The movie is definitely a product of its time . I get a kick out of imagining a time when you could build a two-story , three bedroom , four bathroom house on $15 , 000 income a year . Throw in the fact that your two children attend private school and you have a live-in maid and it becomes almost fanciful . - However , for anyone who has bought or built a house , many of the situations and predicaments the Blanding's find themselves in are easily relatable to today . And that's where the comedy comes in . How many people have done some of the stupid things the couple does in this movie only to end up costing more money than expected ? - The biggest complaint I have about Mr . Blandings is the whole " wife in love with best friend " subplot . It's really not necessary to the plot and feels out-of-place and very uncomfortable as presented .
Mixes elements of fantasy in places I hadn't expected	Trying to come up with a pithy plot description for something like The Heroic Trio is all but impossible . The plot simply cannot be explained in a few short sentences . So I'll go with a very general plot description realizing I'm leaving a lot out ? An evil demon is kidnapping male babies in hopes of finding the next Emperor of China . He hopes to use that baby to help him take over the world . Three competing female super heroes must put aside their differences and work together to defeat the demon . The Heroic Trio is like a comic book come to life . It has an almost dreamlike feel to much of it mixing elements of fantasy in places I hadn't expected . In fact , I was shocked to discover it's probably more fantasy than martial arts . It's quite an unusual narrative style that , as a Westerner , I'm not overly familiar with . Fortunately , I was able to just go with it and enjoy it . It's not too difficult though as director Johnny To filled The Heroic Trio with some amazing images . The flying motorcycle at the train station , the first descent into the underworld , and Michelle Yeoh's dance with the demon are incredibly unique and memorable . Visually , the movie is stunning . All three of the lead actresses ? Michelle Yeoh , Anita Mui , and Maggie Cheung ? are perfect in their roles . At first I was tempted to single Yeoh out for praise , but realized that may have had more to do with my familiarity with her than anything else . All three are outstanding and deserve to be mentioned together . I'm far from a marital arts expert , but I found the fight scenes , though disappointingly too brief , flawlessly choreographed . Other than the finale , one of my favorites featured Maggie Cheung and an automatic weapon facing off against four hooded assassins . Cool stuff ! There are a few things that could have been different that would have made me enjoy The Heroic Trio even more . It seemed to me that the action and momentum of the movie was broken up far too often by scenes of schmaltzy sentimentality . And what was with the music ? I understand the music won some awards , but it's hardly what I would have picked . I suppose that my complaints could be due to my Western sensibilities more than anything . As it is , I found The Heroic Trio an interesting and entertaining experience .
" I have come to bring you Death . "	Posing as a foreign relative , Count Dracula moves to an idyllic 1950s American town to look for a fresh batch of victims . Other than the odd hours he tends to keep , the family he's moved in with doesn't suspect anything out of the ordinary . They explain away his eccentricities to either being tired or his European heritage . But a couple of unusual deaths in the small town catch the eye and attention of an investigator hot on Dracula's trail . Can he track down Dracula before anyone else dies ? I've got to agree with several of the other comments on IMDb ? The Return of Dracula is one spooky and fun little movie . It's also a real under-seen gem from the 50s that deserves a much wider audience . The movie's got a lot more atmosphere going for it than most of the other , cheaply made , b-type films of the period . Francis Lederer is suave and creepy enough to pull off the role of Bellac Gordal aka Dracula . There were at least two instances where I nearly jumped out of my skin as the camera panned to find Lederer . The score is another contributing factor to the eeriness of the movie . It hits all the right notes ( pun intended ) . But my favorite moment in The Return of Dracula has to be the staking scene . It may go by quickly , but it's awesome . I won't spoil for those who haven't seen it , so I'll just say that it's one of those unexpected moments that make discovering these oddball 50s movies such a blast .
Nice supernatural murder mystery	Shortly after popping Phone in the DVD player , my thoughts were , " Oh no . Not another Asian long-haired ghost story " . I thought it was going to be the same old thing . Since watching , I've read reviews on the internet that complain about the movie being " derivative " or " unoriginal " ( if you want to see derivative and unoriginal , check out Ju-rei ) . And while I agree to a certain extent , Phone has enough twists and turns in the plot to keep it from being just another " ghost with long hair " story . I see it as a murder mystery with supernatural elements . I'll admit that the mystery had me guessing up to the big reveal and the supernatural stuff had me jumping on more than one occasion . While it's certainly not the best Asian horror movie I've ever seen , I was reasonably entertained after a slow start . If the current crop of Asian horror has one thing in common , most all of the ones I've seen are technically brilliant . Phone is no exception . The house where most of the story takes place is visually stunning with a load of atmosphere ? a real feat in a modern setting . Sound , lighting , locations , special effects , etc . are all what I've come to expect when watching one of these movies . One area where Phone does not measure up to its Asian brethren is in the acting department . It's not that the performances are bad , but with one exception , no one really stands out . The performances are " workmanlike " at best . The exception is See-woo Eun who plays the little girl , Yeong-ju . And while most of her acting consists of a series of strange faces and growls at the camera , considering her apparent age , it's a solid and memorable performance . Given the subject matter and some of the things she was asked to do , I was impressed .
Tragic	Anna ( Edwige Fenech ) is a small town girl working as a cashier in a local coffee shop . When gangster Guido ( Corrado Pani ) blows into town and into her coffee shop , she is immediately smitten . Even though she knows little about him , Anna follows him to Milan . She is slowly introduced to a world that completely foreign . And before she knows what's happening , she does what Guido demands and joins his criminal organization as a call girl . But the birth of her son and a chance meeting with a nice doctor changes everything . Anna desperately wants to escape her former life and Guido , but at what price to her , her son , and the new man she loves ? Regardless of the silly American title and the way Secrets of a Call Girl was marketed , it's not really either an exploitation movie or a gangster movie . Sure , there are elements of both , but deep down this is a tragic love story . This is not the kind of movie that I usually go for , but something about Secrets of a Call Girl worked for me . Maybe it was just the charismatic presence of Fenech or the brutal character played by Pani , but I couldn't take my eyes off the television . In the end , Secrets of a Call Girl is an incredibly sad , moving film . If the ending doesn't affect you and all but bring a tear to your eye , you might need to seek help . The new DVD represents another bang-up job from NoShame Films . Although their catalog is still quite small , NoShame easily gets my vote for the best DVD production company of 2005 .
" We are a peaceful people . We are sick of weapons and war . "	I've been struggling to write a plot synopsis of World Without End and finally decided to take a look at what was posted on IMDb . The posted synopsis from D . A . Kellough is much better than anything I've been able to come up with ? " Four astronauts returning from mankind's first mission to Mars enter a time warp and crash on a 26th Century Earth devastated by atomic war . Our heroes meet with hideous mutant cavemen , giant spiders , love-struck beauties in short dresses , and jealous old geezers in sparkly skullcaps as they struggle to save humanity and build a new world . " That sums it all up rather nicely . At first glance , World Without End might seem like any number of the mass produced sci-fi clones that came out in the 50s . And in some ways , you'd be right . The poorly done rocket shots , the bizarre notion of having guns and hatchets on board a spacecraft , and the giant spider attacks are straight out of the 1950s Sci-Fi How To Guide . But for whatever reason , World Without End is more enjoyable than many of its brethren . The cast that features Hugh Marlowe and Rod Taylor is more than capable . The interesting script and the snappy direction of Edward Bernds help to create a nicely paced film with few dead spots . Even the more romantic , schmaltzy scenes don't drag the film down like in other sci-fi movies of the period . All of the " creatures " from Earth's future are adequately explained and ( mostly ) believable . And the film has a sense of fun about it that I enjoyed . I've got no problem recommending World Without End to fans of 50s sci-fi cinema . I said that things were adequately explained . Well , for the most part that's true . One thing that's not is the difference between the men and women of Earth's future . The men are pasty , old , bloodless ( that's what one of the characters from Earth's past call them ) beings without a spark for life . The women , in contrast , are young and beautiful creatures with a need to live and to be loved . Why the difference ? It's not really a weakness of the film , just something that nagged at me as I watched the movie .
" A winner is someone who doesn't knock me off my surfboard . "	In our house , we're trying to turn Friday night into Family Movie Night . For our first FMN , my son picked Surf's Up . Both he and my wife had seen the movie and thought I would enjoy it . I admit , I went into it expecting the absolute worst . But maybe the family knows a little about what will appeal to me , because I found Surf's Up to be fun little movie with a message worth taking to heart . Surf's Up tells the story of Cody Maverick , a young penguin living in Antarctica who dreams of being a champion surfer . He wants to be like his idol , Big Z , who mysteriously disappeared during a surfing contest 10 years ago . Cody gets his big chance one day when a talent scout comes to his home looking for surfers . Cody's off to take part in the Big Z Memorial Surf Off . But on the way , Cody meets a down and out beach bum who teaches him that life is about more than trophies . Overall , I quite enjoyed Surf's Up . The movie is told as a behind the scenes surfing documentary . I was worried that this might get " gimmicky " before the end , but it worked throughout . The animation was quite good . I appreciated the little touches like the illusion of a hand held camera or the water splashing on the lens during the surfing scenes . The actors behind the characters were all wonderful . The standout for me was James Woods as a Don King-wannabe sea otter named Reggie . Hysterical ! In fact , the whole movie is funny and well paced with few , if any , overly long dull moments . The accompanying soundtrack is rock solid . I may have to look into picking it up . Finally , with a lot of these family movies , the filmmakers seem intent on beating the viewer over the head with a message that I often find questionable at best . That's not the case with Surf's Up . A message that includes the notion that winning isn't everything and life's too short not to sit back and enjoy it with your family and friends is a message worth living .
" Take my advice stay out of it . Get laid have a baby or something . "	Friday Foster ( Pam Grier ) is a magazine photographer who is given the assignment of covering the airport arrival of the richest black man in America . But Friday gets more than she bargained for as this routine assignment turns into an assassination attempt . Because Friday was able to get some shots of the would be killers , her life is in danger . Soon , everywhere she goes , people end up dead . Friday's investigations lead her to corrupt government officials , a renowned preacher with an eye for more than the Bible , and something called The Black Widow . Friday Foster is literally a Who's Who of 70s black actors . In addition to the always delightful Pam Grier , the movie features Yaphet Kotto , Eartha Kitt , Scatman Crothers , Carl Weathers , Ted Lange , Godfrey Cambridge , Thalmus Rasulala ( what an awesome name ) , and more . While many members of this large cast have little more than cameo appearances , it was a fun to see them all together . I especially enjoyed seeing Kotto work with Grier . I wish the pair had made more films together . They have a good on screen chemistry . Plus , regardless of how silly the situation , Kotto brings an air of credibility to the proceedings . Unlike some of Grier's other films , Friday Foster has a decided lighthearted tone in comparison . That's not to say there aren't plenty of killings , but it never feels as depressing , downbeat , or serious as something like Coffy . It's a nice change of pace to see Grier laughing and joking with Kotto in many of the film's scenes . The action scenes are also good . One of my personal favorites is the rooftop chase with Kotto and Weathers . Very nice . I'm a fan of 70s Blaxplotation ( and Pam Grier in particular ) and Friday Foster is a welcome addition to my video library .
A solid effort	Mary Whitman seems to be a logical suspect in the murder of Jeanne Bentley . After all , she was found standing over the body . And Jeanne was the " other woman " and the reason Mary was getting a divorce . On the surface , there seems to be little doubt of Mary's guilt . But Charlie Chan sees it all quite differently . He sees a hotel full of suspects who wanted Jeanne out of the way . Can he find the real killer before Mary is convicted of a crime she didn't commit ? Sidney Toler's second outing as Charlie Chan is a solid effort and an improvement over his first . I'm not exactly sure how to put this , but Charlie Chan in Reno is just more interesting . The plot , suspects , and setting all appealed to me . The pacing is nice with very few dull moments . I particularly enjoyed Chan's visit to the ghost town . The supporting cast is strong with Phyllis Brooks and Ricardo Cortez being the standouts . And Iris Wong as the dead woman's maid and Jimmy Chan's love interest is a delight . But one thing I really enjoyed about Charlie Chan in Reno is the way the finale is handled . I've often complained about the " cheat " endings of Chan films ( and I should probably stop and just accept it as a given ) , but the ending here is played much straighter than some of the other entries in the series . If you're sharp enough , you actually have a chance to spot the killer before Chan's big reveal . Unfortunately , I am not that sharp .
Ahh , the Memories	I just finished watching " The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries " Season One DVD set . I must admit that I had a great time with the series . Sure , this stuff is pretty simplistic , but it's fun . The show is really pretty tame and the mysteries aren't very involved . It would probably be a good watch for the whole family . Highlights of the first season include - Richard Kiel in The Mystery of the Haunted House , Shaun Cassidy singing in a couple of the later Hardy Boys episodes , Jamie Lee Curtis and Robert Englund in The Mystery of the Fallen Angels , and the way a couple of the episodes , particularly The Mystery of the Whispering Walls and The Disappearing Floor , were put together . Good stuff ! I'm probably a little more biased in favor of " The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries " than some would be . In 1977 , I was 13 and fit perfectly into the shows demographic . Back then , I thought this stuff was better than sliced bread . Ahh , the memories .
One of the best of the 80s teen / slasher films	- The basic plot of April Fool's Day is similar to many of the teen horror / slasher movies of the 1980s . For the most part , the story of the first three quarters of the movie isn't really anything special . A group of eight friends travel to the island estate of Muffy St . John ( Deborah Foreman ) to spend the weekend . Soon , the inevitable happens - people start disappearing and bodies start piling up . Of course , there's no way off the island , the phone isn't working , and Muffy is acting very weird . But , just when you think you've got things figured out , the big ending comes out of nowhere . - About the ending ( and I'm not going to give it away ) - from what I've read , it seems to be a love it or hate it proposition . There's not much middle ground . You will either feel cheated and want to throw your remote at the television or you will love it and appreciate it as something different . Put me in the love it category . I think it is a nice change of pace from the normal horror movie from the period . There are a few ( very few ) clues as to what's coming up , but it takes a repeat viewing to pick them up . - Most of the 80s teen horror movies have interchangeable characters - there is a nerd , a jock , a slut , a good girl , etc . And even though the characters in April Fool's Day can be put in these categories , they are not as exaggerated as you find in most similar movies . The writers should be given credit for at least attempting to write somewhat " real " characters . By no means do we get in depth characterizations , but these characters are more like people I actually knew in the 80s . - As usual , I do have a couple problems with the movie . The biggest complaint I have is the idea that the whole scheme could be pulled off without anyone knowing or discovering what was going on . That notion requires an extra large leap in any sort of known logic . And , I have a problem making a jump that large . - By the way , what ever happened to Deborah Foreman ? After the 80s , she seems to have dropped off the planet .
" Murders and rapes in the city , people bomb planes , can the police stop ' em ? No ! But feed one little cow to a crocodile . . . "	- Some people may question my sanity for this one , but I'm a fan of Lake Placid . As a fluff-filled , popcorn movie , it's one of the more entertaining ones I've seen . If you're looking for a movie to answer the questions of life or provide you with something to think about for days after the movie ends , Lake Placid is not your film . But if you're looking for a movie to have fun with , I have no hesitation about recommending it . - Lake Placid is a mix of movie genres ? it's one part comedy , an almost equal part adventure , a dash horror , and a hint of romance . The comedy is good . The action is okay in that Saturday-afternoon-matine kind of way . The horror consists mainly of cheap , but very effective , jump scares . And what little romance the movie has , unfortunately , is nauseating . But Lake Placid works because it never takes itself too seriously , which is a good thing . Instead of playing it straight , it's played for laughs and most of them work . Some of the dialogue makes me laugh out loud regardless of how many times I've seen it . Betty White steals every scene in which she appears . She has that mild-mannered persona and could easily pass for anyone's grandmother . But when push comes to shove , she lets the foul language rip without a second thought . It's hysterical . I've never been much of a fan of David E . Kelley , but he hit a home run with this witty , intelligent script . - Two of the relationships in the movie bear mentioning . The first is Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda . This is one of those typical fish - out - of - water - falls - for - the - local - guy relationships that are very common in a lot of the romantic / comedies that I've seen . It's really nothing special and incredibly predictable . The second is Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson . This is where Lake Placid rises above your standard comedy . These two guys are a riot when on screen together . Their constant bickering is a real treat . It's great .
Not as bad as most say	- A group of scientist go back to the Black Lagoon to capture the Creature . From there he is taken to an aquarium in Florida for research . The Creature develops a sort of " crush " on one of the female scientists , escapes , and kidnaps her . Can the Creature be stopped ? - While it's the weakest of the series , I probably rate Revenge of the Creature higher than most other people who claim to be fans . It definitely didn't deserve the MST3K treatment . The love story and escape work for me . I especially enjoy the scenes of the Creature terrorizing the guests and workers at the aquarium . Good stuff . - One of the problems I have with the movie is understanding the actions of the so-called scientists . First , they head of to the Black Lagoon and proceed to dynamite the place to capture the Creature . They actually seem willing to kill every other living animal to get the Creature . Is that the way real scientists operate ? And while I understand the point of the experiments they perform on the Creature once in Florida , the scientists seem a little too anxious to administer the shock treatment to the Creature . It's just not very realistic , even by 1950s horror / sci-fi movie standards . - If you've never seen Revenge of the Creature , be on the look-out for an uncredited and VERY young Clint Eastwood in his first movie role .
" Woe be unto him who opens one of the seven gateways to Hell , because through that gateway , evil will invade the world . "	- Liza Merril ( Catriona MacColl ) takes possession of a hotel in Louisiana . She has plans to renovate the place . But a series of seemingly accidental deaths may put a stop to her plans . She's unaware that her hotel has a past . Many years ago , a warlock was lynched in the basement of the hotel . Before dying , he claimed that the hotel was one of the seven doorways to hell and that his death would lead to its opening . Is his prophecy coming true ? - I've never been the biggest fan of Lucio Fulci . Other than a couple of gialli , my experiences with his films have not left me with much of desire to see more ( For example , I thought House by the Cemetery was terrible and I walked out of the theater during City of the Living Dead ) . So , I had never been in a rush to see The Beyond . While it has problems , The Beyond is much more enjoyable than a lot of Fulci's other work . - Two things work for me in The Beyond - atmosphere and Catriona MacColl . When watching some of his other films , I came away with the impression that Fulci wasn't patient enough to allow atmosphere to build . He always seemed to be in a rush to get to the money shot . The hotel in this movie is filled with a good amount of atmosphere . There is a sense of dread hanging over the place . You can especially feel it when the characters venture into the basement . It's all but palatable . - As for MacColl , through her acting she's able to pull together the barest of story lines and create a character I could care about . It's difficult to enjoy a horror movie when you don't care about the characters . A little more insight into the MacColl's character would have been very welcome . - As I stated previously , the movie is not without problems . The biggest is the plot . It's all but non-existent . The actual why's and how's of the doorway to hell opening are never really explored . We only see some of the aftermath . We know that the doorway to hell is in the basement of the hotel , then why does half of the movie take place at a hospital ? Furthermore , the weak plot does not allow the characters to be fleshed out as much as I would have liked . I knew so little about most of the characters that I really didn't care what happened to them . The plot seems to matter little to Fulci as its main function is to string together a series of gristly set pieces . And that's always been my biggest complaint about Fulci - he throws tons of gore into his movies , not to advance the storyline , but for the sake of showing gore . Gore does not necessarily equal horror . I'll use the spider attack scene from The Beyond as an example . While I'll say that it certainly was gross and very nicely done , but it's not scary because it happens out of the blue to a character I know nothing about . Gore does not bother as long as it is presented within the context of the story . - Overall , my experience with The Beyond has made me rethink some of my thoughts of Fulci . I may need to see some of his other films that I've been putting off .
Borgnine the Goat	The plot of The Devil's Rain is very simple . It concerns the Preston family and a book their ancestors stole decades ago from a devil worshiper named Jonathan Corbis ( Ernest Borgnine ) . Corbis has spent centuries trying to locate the book and will stop at nothing to obtain it and use its power . What Works : - What a Cast ! The Devil's Rain is the Airport ( or at least The Love Boat ) of horror movies . Just take a look at the cast ? Ernest Borgnine , Tom Skerritt , Eddie Albert , Ida Lupino , William Shatner , Keenan Wynn , and , although very brief , John Travolta . I'm amazed that the producers could get all of these people to appear in what is essentially a low budget horror film . - Borgnine the Goat . This is where a lot of people seem to have problems with The Devil's Rain . They seem to find the sight of Borgnine with goat horns too funny to take seriously . I look at it just the opposite . I've always found it a disturbing , well-done visage . The whole idea that someone could literally transform into a demon is frightening to me . And the make-up is very nicely done . I've seen a lot of big budget films that didn't have special effects half as convincing as what's found here . - Melting Bodies . Another special effects moment that is a winner as far as I'm concerned . Sure , the bodies look like they are spewing forth melted orange and lime sherbet , but I still find it effective . I've seen any number of melting body scenes over the years , but the ones in The Devil's Rain are among my favorite . What Doesn't Work : - Did I Miss Something ? The movie gives no introduction as to what is taking place at the beginning of the movie . The viewer is literally dropped into a scene with people and actions that are a mystery . It's almost like the first half of the movie is missing . - Silly Story . If you try to think too hard about what's going on with the plot , it can make your head hurt . My suggestion is to just enjoy the cheese and forget about trying to make sense of it all . Don't over-analyze it , just go with the flow . In the end , I realize that The Devil's Rain really isn't that good of a movie , but it's just so much cheesy fun that I can't help but rate it as high as I do . It's a movie that could have only been made in the 70s . It seems to me that anyone with a half-baked idea and enough money could see their vision on the big screen . Many of today's horror movies are so glossy and over-produced that all the fun has been sucked out of them . And , for me , much of the appeal of horror movies is having fun .
" I saw a murder , and I'm going to prove it ! "	Sisters is a very well made low-budget thriller form Brian De Palma with a few very shocking moments and , unfortunately , a couple of serious flaws that keep me from rating it any higher . The basic premise of the psychological impact of being separated Siamese twins is , as far as I know , rather unique . De Palma handles this portion very well and in a believable manner . In lesser hands , Sisters might have disintegrated into the ridiculous psycho-babble I've heard once too often . As for shocking moments , the main murder in the film is rather unexpected and caught me off-guard in its viciousness . The low-budget special effects only add to the brutality of the images on screen . De Palma also creates a dream sequence near the end of the film that is beautiful and disturbing at the same time . The acting in Sisters is at least adequate with Margot Kidder giving a standout performance . The great Bernard Herrmann contributes a wonderful score . But , as I mentioned , there are a couple of moments that do not work at all . The first is the reporter who " witnesses " the murder . From her vantage point , all she sees is a hand writing something in what appears to be blood on a window . In addition , there's such glare on the window that there is no way she couldn't have seen a whole lot more . Yet she tells the police that she " witnessed " a murder and that the victim was a black man . What ? She never saw any of that . My second problem with the movie comes near the end and is part of the dream sequence I mentioned previously . Exposition is fine as long as it's interwoven into the action going on screen . Having characters stop and explain what's going on so the viewer knows what they're seeing can drag a movie to a standstill . And when this type of exposition occurs during the climax of a film , it's unforgivable . During the build-up to the climax are scenes of one character basically telling another what the audience is watching . Maybe I'm being picky , but it really bothered me and hurt the flow of the third act .
Criminally Underseen	- While plowing a field , a young man uncovers what he believes to be the devil . Soon , all the children and young people in the tiny village are performing pagan rituals in the woods . Very nice movie . - Blood on Satan's Claw is loaded with that key ingredient : ATMOSPHERE . Good acting by a cast of British horror regulars , although none are very well known . Linda Hayden is just so deliciously evil as the leader of the cult . It's too bad the movie didn't feature a " big " name actor . Blood on Satan's Claw would probably get the attention it deserves if it had . The ending was the only let down as far as I'm concerned . - With a decent DVD transfer , my overall enjoyment of the movie might actually increase . The copy I have is a very old VHS that I bought used at a video store .
Underrated Bava	While I prefer Bava's Black Sunday and Kill Baby . . . Kill , this is a good movie that I would highly recommend . Baron Blood combines the best elements of a good old-time ghost / haunted house story with a modern day slasher film . All of Bava's trademarks are here - imaginative lighting , wonderful sets , and dramatic locations . Combined , they create the perfect horror movie atmosphere . Unfortunately , another Bava trademark is here as well - a weak script . There are some plot holes big enough the drive the Baron's castle through . But with Bava's style and skill as a director , the plot problems seem very minor . The film concerns the evil Baron Otto von Kleist . After having been brought back to life , he continues the murderous ways of the past . There are some truly frightening moments in the film . ( I'm not talking just creepy , I mean downright scary . ) Examples would include the scenes involving the summoning of the Baron or Elke Sommer running from the Baron through the dark streets . Speaking of the chase scene , films like Halloween or Friday the 13th were obviously heavily influenced by this movie . One could easily envision either Michael or Jason chasing Elke through the foggy streets .
My favorite of the series	- It's been five quiet years since a group of councilors were murdered at Camp Crystal Lake . But when a new group of councilors arrives to open a nearby camp , the killing starts all over again . Who's behind the murders ? The original Camp Crystal Lake Killer is dead . Could it be her son who was believed to have died in the lake years earlier ? By the time someone figures out who the killer is , most everyone else is dead . - Friday the 13th Part 2 has always been my favorite installment in the series . I've always thought that Jason was more frightening before he found the hockey mask and became the unstoppable iconic killer zombie . This Jason is human and that makes him more real . And , to me , the horror factor is increased when the killer is based in reality . He's a primitive being ( not unsimilar to the inbred mountain men I recently wrote about in Wrong Turn ) capable of extreme brutality , out to avenge the death of his mother . - Most of the movie is about what you would expect - grisly murders , an absence of logic , woeful dialogue , and iffy acting . Friday the 13th Part 2 also features just about every horror clich that fans have come to expect in a teen slasher . When I saw this movie in 1981 , a lot of what we consider teen slasher clichs were still being developed . Back then , a lot of this was still fairly new and fresh . And whether I should or not , I still see the movie the way I did in 1981 .
" He's gone out again , I'm afraid . . . you're all alone again . . . with me . "	I've really got to disagree with most of the reviews I've read on House of Mortal Sin ( I prefer that title to The Confessional ) . Most reviewers seem to see it as one of Pete Walker's weaker films . I saw it as one of his best ? second only to House of Whipcord . It's an entertaining tale of one Priest's madness and the young girl who tries to reveal his secret . Instead of uncovering the truth , she's the one who is labeled " mad " for making such accusations against such a respected figure . She can't get anyone to believe her until it's too late . House of Mortal Sin includes some really suspenseful and tense moments . Viewing the picture , you learn early on just what the Priest is capable of . He's a holier-than-thou , above reproach figure who relishes his perversions and is quite at ease with viciously disposing of those who he feels stand in his way . It's really creepy watching the way he twists religion to meet his depraved desires . And to see the twinkle in his eye as he's trying to get the young girl to discuss her sex life is quite disturbing . Pete Walker was capable of getting more out of a group of relative unknown actors than most any director I've seen . As I've already alluded to , Anthony Sharp is outstanding as the demented Father Xavier Meldrum . Stephanie Beacham , Susan Penhaligon , and Norman Eshley all give terrific performances . And what can you really say about the genius of Shelia Keith . The woman was amazing . In the grand scheme of things , I'm a relative newcomer to Pete Walker's films . So my experiences with Keith are also relatively recent in nature . Still , having been aware of the woman for less than a year , I'm ready to put Keith on a list of my favorite actresses in horror movies alongside the likes of Barbara Steele and Edwige Fenech . Obviously , Keith is a different kind of actress with a vastly different style and look , but she's every bit their equal in the pleasure I derive from her work .
Good , just not great	- ( From IMDb ) Clive Barker's feature directing debut graphically depicts the tale of a man and wife who move into an old house and discover a hideous creature - the man's half-brother , who is also the woman's former lover - hiding upstairs . Having lost his earthly body to a trio of S & M demons , the Cenobites , he is brought back into existence by a drop of blood on the floor . He soon forces his former mistress to bring him his necessary human sacrifices to complete his body . . . but the Cenobites won't be happy about this . - I've always thought that Hellraiser is a good movie , but I am not as " in love " with it as a lot of horror fans . The special effects seem to be one of the major draws and , while I agree that they are very well done , I'm just not into a lot of gore effects . I will give the special effects people credit for some jaw dropping moments . If this movie were made today , CGI would replace ( and ruin ) a lot of what's seen . Hellraiser is one of the better examples of what can be done with " real " effects . - Pinhead and , to a lesser extent , the other Cenobites have become cultural icons . But , in Hellraiser , they are given so little screen time that they are really nothing more than minor supporting players . Watching the movie , you learn very little about the Cenobites and how they came to be ( it's not until the sequels that we learn anything about their origin ) . Had there never been all of the sequels , I contend that Pinhead and his buddys wouldn't be nearly as " famous " as they are . - I suppose my biggest problem with the movie is the characters . For me to completely enjoy a horror movie , there has to be someone I care about . None of these characters are worth empathy . I suppose the daughter could be a character I could care about , but she has so little screen time until she's under attack that I never felt as if I knew her .
" Take your filthy hands off my asp ! "	Reading through the various reviews on the internet , including those on IMDb , it's obvious that many consider the original The Pink Panther either among the best of the series or among the worst of the series . I'm one of those who considers it the very best . What does it have that the others lack ? The quick answer is style . The movie is filled with the best style the 60s has to offer . The Pink Panther is full of sophisticated people in luxurious locations partaking in lavish parties and holidays . These are the jet-setters with money to burn who understood the importance of carrying themselves properly and looking smart . Other areas where The Pink Panther excels in comparison with the sequels are plot , acting , and the handling of Inspector Clouseau . - Plot ? Unlike the sequels that follow , The Pink Panther has a fairly interesting heist plot at its core . The movie doesn't rely totally on slapstick . Take the first sequel , A Shot in the Dark , as an example . The plot in that movie is so thin as to be transparent . And , the further along you go in the series , the thinner the plots become . - Acting ? The Pink Panther has four leads that add their own wonderful elements to the film . Peter Sellers isn't asked to carry the film on his own . And , surprisingly , even though the movie features Sellers , David Niven , and Claudia Cardinale ( names that should be familiar to many movie fans ) , it's the more unknown Capucine who gives my favorite performance . She's brilliant in the role of Clouseau's wife . - Handling of Clouseau ? If you can't tell from what I've already written , I'm not the biggest fan in the world of the sequels to The Pink Panther that focus almost entirely on Clouseau . Sellers is good as Clouseau , but I can only take him in moderation . In The Pink Panther , Clouseau is not the primary focus . The decision to allow Sellers to play a more subdued Clouseau was a good one .
Nice beginning to the series	I have a 5 year-old son who just loves anything to do with animals . The other day we were out shopping and ran across Season 1 of Flipper . I remembered watching it as a child and enjoying the show , so I thought I might take a chance on it and buy it for my son . And at less than $15 , I really wasn't risking a whole lot . To my utter delight , my little boy just loves it . So far , my son's favorite episode is " 300 Feet Below " . The plot involves a man who radios for help after being attacked by a shark . Badly needed plasma is delivered to the boat by helicopter , but it's accidentally dropped into the ocean . When Ranger Porter Ricks dives in to get the plasma , he runs into the same shark . Fortunately , Flipper is on hand to battle the shark and save the day . For me , I was surprised at how much real tension and suspense I got out of this episode . I was also surprised to see actual blood in a family television show from 1964 . I didn't know you could do that back then . For my son , he talks almost every day about the Flipper vs . shark showdown and goes on to describe blow-by-blow how it all unfolded . He's hooked . And I'm thinking that's not a bad thing . With the state of television today , you could do a whole lot worse than Flipper .
Surprisingly Good	- A group of three unprofessionals attempt to rob the house of an elderly couple . It's an isolated place full of expensive items such as a large collection of clocks . The robbery goes all wrong and the old couple are each hit with a shotgun blast . One of the robbers notices that immediately following the couple's deaths , all of the clocks in the house have stopped . What none of them realizes is that the clocks begin to run backwards . Before the robbers realize what's happening , the clocks have turned back time and brought the couple back to life . - Almost every review I've read on the internet seems to trash this movie . I don't get it . Other than Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling and A Lizard in Woman's Skin , this is the best I've seen of his movies . The movie plays a bit like Twilight Zone meets Fulci . The story is original and innovative . Being Fulci , there is a certain amount of gore to be found ( for example , an endless stream of entrails pouring from the maids stomach after she's been stabbed with a sharpened stick ) , but it never goes over-the-top . I found more tension here than in most of Fulci's films . Most of his work seems to be based on how to gross-out an audience . Here , he lets the story take center stage . - A lot of the reviews I've read complain about the ending . I'll not give it away , I'll just say that it has a nice irony to me that I found satisfying . The three robbers are , after all , bad people . It's only fitting that they should not get away . - The House of Clocks was apparently an Italian made-for-TV movie . They certainly don't make TV movies like this in America .
John Alton's cinematography is stunning	Alexis ( Turhan Bey ) is a con man preying on people's desires to communicate with their dearly departed . His new target , Christine Faber ( Lynn Bari ) , is a wealthy woman who has lost her husband . But with Christine , the would-be spiritualist may have bitten off more than he can chew when to Alexis ' utter astonishment Christine's dead husband makes a return appearance from the grave . Alexis must go from huckster to hero if he's to save Christine and her sister Janet ( Cathy O'Donnel ) , whom he's developed a real fondness for , from this murderous man come back from the dead . What a ridiculous title for an masterfully filmed and very entertaining movie . In comparison with a lot of the other B-quickies of the 40s , The Amazing Mr . X features a very well crafted script that's an interesting blend of horror and film noir . The movie is well paced with several nice plot twists along the way . Just when you start to think you're watching a Gothic horror piece , the movie shifts gears and turns from a supernatural thriller to a crime thriller . And the character Alexis changes from a medium in communication with the dead to a phony con-man to the film's hero . It's all these twists that keep The Amazing Mr . X interesting throughout . All of the actors involved to an excellent job . I was particular impressed with Turhan Bey as Alexis and Cathy O'Donnell as the sister , Janet . Finally , as almost every comment on IMDb has noted , John Alton's cinematography is stunning . Films with ten times the budget don't look this good . It's an interesting mix of light , shadows , and creative camera angles . Alton certainly deserves all the praise he's received .
Big Time Spoiler Alert	Charlie Chan and # 1 son Lee get mixed up with a mysterious woman on board a ship bound for New York . Unbeknownst to Chan , the woman is the former girlfriend of a gangster with information that , if published , could blow the lid off the underworld . She hides a small package in Chan's luggage to make sure it gets to New York safely . Shortly after arriving in New York , the woman is murdered in an office at the Hottentot Club . Can Chan discover the woman's secret and find her killer ? Charlie Chan on Broadway is yet another very solid entry in the Chan series . Warner Oland and Keye Luke are as good and entertaining as ever . Plus , anytime I see the names Marc Lawrence or Leon Ames in the credits , I know I'm in for a good time . But the highlight of this one has to be the killer's identity . It completely caught me off guard . BIG TIME SPOILERS ? If you've seen enough of the Charlie Chan movies ( or any other detective type movies from the 30s and 40s ) , there are a few absolutes you can generally count on . One of them is that the Chan movies usually feature a young couple in love . While both may come under suspicion at some point in the movie , they are always exonerated by the end to continue their dreamy relationship . That's not the case in Charlie Chan on Broadway . One of the last people I expected ? the male half of the ideal couple ? is found to be the killer . It really threw me for a loop ! END OF BIG TIME SPOILERS Overall , I'm very pleased to have discovered a " new " Charlie Chan film . I look forward to revisiting it many times in the future .
With a name like The Washing Machine , I had no idea what to expect .	In this latter day Giallo , Police Inspector Alexander Stracev is called to the home of three sisters to investigate a crime . One of the sisters claims to have found the mutilated body of a pimp named Yuri in her washing machine . When Inspector Stracev arrives , he finds no body and no sign of there having ever been a body . But the more he investigates , the more enthralled he becomes by each of the three sisters as they take turns trying to seduce him , tempting him with information about what happened to Yuri and accusing each other of responsibility for Yuri's disappearance . Inspector Stracev is not sure what he's on to , but he can't get away from it . The sisters keep drawing him in deeper and deeper . With a name like The Washing Machine , I had no idea what to expect . What I found was an entertaining Euro-thriller that exceeded my somewhat guarded expectations . Director Ruggero Deodato ( better known for his cannibal films ) has created a very stylish ( as stylish as Budapest , circa 1993 , can be ) , quick moving and entertaining film that kept my interest from the opening scenes . The pacing is nice and I enjoyed the way Deodato allowed the plot to unfold in bits and pieces during several erotically charged moments . The mystery elements kept me guessing until the very end . There were questions I couldn't wait to be answered - Was there really a body in the washing machine ? Are the three sisters as completely mad as they seem ? Or , are these women using the Inspector as part of some sort of elaborate game ? It's all very nicely done .
" On your lips I've smelled the blood , that touches my tongue . "	Although the Korean name for Memento Mori would lead you to believe it is a sequel to Whispering Corridors , other than the setting , the two films have very little in common . Having seen the first film is not a requirement to see and enjoy this film . The story in Memento Mori involves a love affair between two students at an all-girl's school . One of the girl's , for various reasons , can't take it when the other girl " outs " their relationship and decides to break things off with tragic consequences . A third girl finds the diary the two girls wrote together and , through its pages , begins a horrifying journey to understand what happened to her classmates and how one of them could end up dead . Regardless of how Memento Mori has been marketed to American audiences , it's not a horror movie . Instead , it's a poignant look at young love and the consequences taken to the extreme of a relationship that doesn't work out . Sure , there are moments of terror to be found in the movie , but even in what should be the final chilling moments of the movie , the horror is never as front and center as the drama . It's not a movie for those who demand a new adrenaline rush every five minutes . Memento Mori moves slow and allows you to get to know the characters , their fears , their problems , and to really develop a sense of caring for them . I haven't rated the movie any higher because this type of film and this subject matter don't appeal to me on an entertainment level regardless of how well made the film is . As with the majority of the other Asian films I've seen recently , Memento Mori is technically very sound . The direction and cinematography are solid . The movie presents numerous uniquely filmed scenes that really standout . Although the special effects are used sparingly , they are very realistic when employed . The music is fitting for a movie like this . And the acting is rock solid . One question that has bothered me after having recently watched both Whispering Corridors and Memento Mori is : Do teachers in Korea really treat their students in the manner presented here , with physical and emotional abuse ? I'm not saying it's right or wrong , it's just now what I'm accustomed to seeing in teacher / student relationships .
" Pardon me , am I protruding ? "	Bob Hope is Larry Lawrence , a radio personality who thinks he has committed murder . He meets Mary Carter ( Paulette Goddard ) and she unknowingly helps him out of his jam . Mary is on her way to Cuba to visit the supposed haunted mansion she has inherited . But Mary has more problems than a few ghosts . It seems that someone is willing to commit murder to keep her from taking possession of her inheritance . Larry agrees that one good turn deserves another and decides to go to Cuba to help Mary . The Ghost Breakers is a very entertaining mix of comedy and horror . Unlike a lot of movies of this type , much of the comedy is actually quite funny and some of the horror is actually quite chilling . While much of the best comedic material is delivered by Larry's servant , Willie Best , Larry has one of the best lines I've heard recently . When told that " A zombie has no will of his own . You see them sometimes walking around blindly with dead eyes , following orders , not knowing what they do , not caring " , Larry's response " You mean like Democrats " had me laughing out loud . As for the horror , the haunted house set is one of the better examples I've seen in this kind of movie . It's the stuff of nightmares with its creepy corridors , secret passages , and ghostly activity . Add to that the " zombie " couple who guard the island and you've got some fairly effective horror elements . Hope and Goddard make a great team . They work together effortlessly and make a very natural , believable pair . Best does his " best " to rise above the standard 1940s servant role and shines in many scenes . The rest of the cast is more than adequate . Overall , The Ghost Breakers is one of the movies I've wanted to see for a long while and I'm glad I finally got the chance . My only complaint and the thing that keeps me from rating the movie any higher is that it's far too easy to spot the bad guys . Still , I had a lot of fun with this one .
" I hate to get married with one of my brothers smellin ' bad enough to gag a dog off a Gut Wagon . "	It's all but impossible to watch Ride the High Country and not be impressed with Randolph Scott and Joel McCrea . Scott and McCrea are two aging " cowboy " types who have been asked to guard a shipment of gold from the mine into town . While McCrea sees this as just another paying job , Scott sees it as an opportunity for a big score and to get what he feels he deserves . Scott and McCrea make a great pair . They bring dignity , honor , and class to their characters and to the whole film . They are naturals and appear very much at ease . I've never been much for older Westerns , but after watching this pair of fine actors , I realize I need to visit some of their earlier films . Compared with some of Peckinpah's other films , Ride the High Country is a simpler , more intimate work . Even though it's not as violent and sprawling as his better known The Wild Bunch , the two films share some common themes ( themes explored in some of Peckinpah's other films as well ) . Both films deal with the end of the Old West and how this change affects those who have known nothing else . The outlaws in The Wild Bunch face it head on - walking into a barrage of bullets . The lawmen in Ride the High Country face their uncertain future in a similar manner - walking into a barrage of bullets ( albeit , on a smaller scale ) . Be they outlaw or lawman , the end of the " cowboy " era represents such uncertainty that neither is quite prepared to face it . Where The Wild Bunch is wild , brash , and over-the-top , Ride the High Country is controlled and deliberate . In either case , the outcome is very nearly the same . It's a masterful job by Peckinpah of portraying the same notion in two completely different styles . In the end , Ride the High Country may never make it to the top of the list of my favorite Sam Peckinpah films , but it's a solid effort that I'm glad to have " discovered " .
Underseen	- Mainardi ( George Hilton ) would like to see his wife dead . By chance , he stumbles upon a killer as he is disposing of his latest victim . Mainardi hires the man to do away with his wife . The killer is able to gain access to the house and soon enough the wife is dead . He carries her body to his car and places it in the trunk . He goes back into the house to clean-up . But , when the killer returns to his car , he discovers it has been stolen by a joy riding couple . Unfortunately for the beach bound couple , they know nothing of the body in the trunk or the killer who is hot on their trail . - There is no mystery as to the killer's identity . We know who he is two minutes into the movie . Some may complain about the drawn out " chase " sequence , but it only adds to the tension . The time is taken to get to know the couple . So , when the killer finally catches up with them , these scenes are even more shocking because we actually know and care about the victims . I found these scenes of violence particularly disturbing . The long chase is necessary to build to this moment . - Unlike many of the films in the giallo subgenre , The Killer Must Kill Again actually has a plot that makes sense and is easy to follow . Cozzi abandons most of the tricks associated with this kind of movie . There are no characters introduced in the final moments of the movie or last minute flashbacks that make some gialli so frustrating . The straight forward style of story telling is a nice change of pace for fans of the subgenre . - The entire cast is wonderful . Antoine Saint-John makes a superb killer . He has one of the most menacing looks I've ever seen . George Hilton is his usual smarmy self . And the couple , particularly the innocent Cristina Galbo , are very believable as sympathetic pair of car thieves . - The new DVD from Mondo Macabro is a real treat . Image and sound are better than I expected for an almost unknown movie from 1975 . They've also loaded the disc with some very nice features , including extensive interview sessions will Cozzi and a commentary with Cozzi . I am very happy with this purchase .
Argento's First	- Sam ( Tony Musante ) is an American writer vacationing in Italy . One night as he walks past an art gallery , he sees two figures inside struggling . One is obviously a woman , the other is wearing a black raincoat , gloves , and hat . The dark figure escapes out a side door after the woman is stabbed . She is not dead and stumbles down the stairs toward the front door . Sam rushes to her rescue but becomes trapped between two glass doors . When the police arrive , they naturally assume Sam tried to kill woman and was trapped as he made his escape . The police also suspect Sam in a series of murders around the city . Sam decides that his best course of action is to assist the police in finding the killer . - Mario Bava may be credited with " inventing " the giallo , but Argento made the giallo his own beginning with this , his first film . His string of successes in the genre ( including The Bird with the Crystal Plumage , Deep Red , Tenebre , Opera , and the underrated Sleepless ) is second to none . In his first giallo , Argento employs many of the techniques that he has over the years become famous for - innovative camera work , nice use of color , and good set pieces . In addition , The Bird with the Crystal Plumage features what I consider to be one of the best scripts Argento has written . Almost everything , including the outcome , seems to be fairly logical and make sense . Argento builds the suspense very nicely throughout the movie . The first time I saw the movie , the killer's identity really caught me off guard . - One thing missing from The Bird with the Crystal Plumage that Argento uses extensively in his later films is blood . Compare the amount of on screen blood in this film with Tenebre . It's not even close . This , however , doesn't bother me . In fact , the lack of blood allows me to better concentrate on the plot as it unfolds . - The Bird with the Crystal Plumage may not be my favorite giallo , but it would make an excellent starting point for someone new to these films .
My first venture into the world of Dr . Mabuse	The 1 , 000 Eyes of Dr . Mabuse represents my first venture into the world of Dr . Mabuse . Pigeon-holing this movie into a single genre is difficult . It's one part traditional krimi , one part spy movie , and one part thriller . Combined , these elements create , at least for me , a one of a kind experience that I really can't compare with much of anything I've seen before . I refuse to give the normal plot synopsis . Any plot details or other information would ruin the many twists and surprises found in The 1 , 000 Eyes of Dr . Mabuse . Fortunately for me , I went into the movie completely blind , knowing very little of what to expect . I would suggest not even looking over the IMDb page as vital information is presented on Mabuse's identity . The acting is good from a cast that , even if I didn't know all of the names , I recognized from years of watching WWII movies . Actors like Gert Forbe , Werner Peters , and Peter van Eyck give sold performances . Fritz Lang's direction is as competent as ever . The 1 , 000 Eyes of Dr . Mabuse has style to burn . Considering the movie was made more than 45 years ago , it still feels remarkably fresh . The mystery of who Dr . Mabuse is and what his fiendish plan is all about are wonderfully compelling and really pull you into the movie . The jazzy score is impossible to get out of your mind and fits well within the film . In short , it's movie like this that keeps me excited about exploring " new " cinema . If all of my first time viewings could be this entertaining , I would be very happy indeed . If The 1 , 000 Eyes of Dr . Mabuse has one weakness , it's the slow pace of the second act . The pace grinds to a crawl as the police begin their investigation into the events taking place . While it's fairly interesting and Gert Forbe is a good enough actor , there's not enough action in this portion of the film when compared with what came before and what comes afterward . A little more pep in the middle third of the film would have made it a real winner with me . It's a minor issue I have with the film , but it's an issue nonetheless . As I wrote previously , The 1 , 000 Eyes of Dr . Mabuse is the first Mabuse movie I've seen . After my wonderful experience with the movie , it won't be the last .
Lived up to the hype	After watching a bunch of less than stellar Poliziotteschi in recent months , I am happy to report that this one lived up to just about every positive review I've read . With a cast that includes Maurizio Merli ( doing less " posing " than in some of his other films ) , Tomas Milian , John Saxon , and a bunch of other familiar faces , Umberto Lenzi's The Cynic , the Rat & the Fist gets off to a fast start and keeps going at a good pace through most of the film's runtime . Nice action , violence , direction , and a catchy score ( by Franco Micalizzi ) also add to the enjoyment . Of all the great moments in the film , the sparring scenes between Milian and Saxon are easily my favorites . My only real complaint comes at the films climax . It's over too quickly . There's a nice setup for the film's finale , but it's over before you know it . An ending that didn't feel so rushed would have made this one a real standout in the genre .
" You've had such rotten luck with your housekeepers Aunt Claire . "	Claire Marrable ( Geraldine Page ) is shocked to learn that her late husband has left her with nothing but debts . How is she to live in the style she's grown accustomed ? To solve her problem , she comes up with a fiendish plot . What if she were to hire a servant / companion with a small life savings , dupe her out of the money , and then kill her ? Well , that's exactly what Claire does . She disposes of the bodies under pine trees growing in her garden . All is going well for Claire until Alice Dimmock ( Ruth Gordon ) shows up at her door looking for a job . Claire doesn't realize it but the nosey Alice is no ordinary employee . Can Alice discover Claire's secret before another pine tree is planted ? What a wonderful movie ! In short , What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice ? is a deliciously twisted tale of greed and murder filled with plenty of suspense , real atmosphere , rock solid acting , witty writing , and some of the darkest humor put on film . It's a real winner from start to finish . And while I'm sure I could go on and on praising the film , it's the acting that sets it apart from similar movies . To call Geraldine Page's performance brilliant would be a gross understatement . The gleeful menace in her voice and on her face as she goes about psychologically torturing ( and killing ) those see sees as beneath her is amazing to watch . And if her presence wasn't enough , along comes Ruth Gordon . She's feisty , fun , and every bit the equal of Page in her role as the titular Aunt Alice . Watching these two spar when all the film's secrets have been revealed is one of those moments I won't soon forget . These are the screen moments that keep me searching out new movies . Nobody asked , but if I had to come up with one flaw , I suppose it would be the supporting cast . None of the other actors does anything to stand out . But how could they ? Compared with Page and Gordon . . . well , there's really no comparison . Finally , from the outside some 40 years after the movie was made , I'd bet the actors had a blast making What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice ? I can just imagine Page and Gordon having a good long laugh after shooting some of their scenes together . Then again , maybe it's just me . All I know is that I had a great time watching them work together . An seems about right to me .
If you get the chance , see it in 3D on an IMAX screen	This past weekend , the family and I went to the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga . While there , we caught Deep Sea 3D at the IMAX theater . My son has a copy of the movie on DVD , so I knew what to expect and knew the basic premise of the film . What I didn't expect were some truly amazing visuals . I was completely blown away by the images . There's a scene at the very beginning where the waves come rolling in toward the camera . The 3D effects actually made me jump . It looked like we were about to get soaked . The underwater scenes were just as cool with great colors , interesting and unusual animal life , and solid 3D visuals . Both Johnny Depp and Kate Winslet do an acceptable job with the narration . I've read where some complained that the script was geared toward smaller children . Well , I was with a small child so that didn't bother me . My only complaint with the experience is some of the added sound effects . The folly guys worked overtime and the end result is pretty bad . Scallops fleeing from a marauding sea star do not sound like school kids on the playground . Having watched Deep Sea 3D on an IMAX screen in 3D , I don't know that my son will be able to watch his DVD on a regular TV anymore . The IMAX 3D was that amazing .
A rock solid effort	This 1983 version of The Hound of the Baskervilles , Sherlock Holmes ' most famous mystery , is a rock solid effort . I enjoyed it immensely . And when you consider the fact that it's a made-for-TV film , it's even more amazing to me just how good it really is . I say amazing because I simply cannot imagine an American made-for-TV production equaling this British effort . Highlights for me include the acting ( including nice performances by Ian Richardson , Brian Blessed , and Denholm Elliot ) , the location shoots ( the authenticity of the movie is greatly enhanced by shooting on real mires and bogs ) , and a steady hand in the director's chair ( the pacing of the film is just one of the movie's outstanding features ) . In fact , I've got very little to complain about . Sure , Donald Churchill all but takes his Watson into Nigel Bruce territory , but it's a minor distraction . Some of my favorite set-pieces included the hound attack in the fog , Holmes ' gypsy impersonation , and the flashback sequence . Overall , this version of The Hound of the Baskervilles may not be my favorite and it may not be completely faithful to the source material , but it's a good show and well worth the effort to seek out for any fan of Sherlock Holmes . One final word on The Hound of the Baskervilles ( 1983 ) ? I've got one small complaint about the DVD I viewed ( R1 DVD from Image ) . Maybe it was just the copy I had or maybe it was the monitor I was watching it on , but several scenes were a bit too dark . A few times I had difficulty seeing what was going on . Like I said , maybe it was just me , but I thought I would put the warning out there just he same .
" Why didn't you learn the violin ? "	After 1985's A View to a Kill , it became apparent ( at least to me ) that the Bond series needed a change if it was going to be viable . Enter Timothy Dalton and The Living Daylights . What a breath of fresh air ! With Dalton , Bond was changed from a smarmy , one-line spewing 00 agent without the physical presence to any longer play the role into a more serious , mysterious , and athletic figure . Dalton's Bond may come out with a clever line here and there , but he's far form the ridiculous quip machine that Moore had become . And to top it off , The Living Daylights sees Bond returning somewhat to his roots and actually doing a little spy work . Imagine that ? Bond as a spy ! The Living Daylights isn't the perfect Bond film . Neither General Koskov ( Jeroen Krabbe ) nor Brad Whitaker ( Joe Don Baker ) make for very threatening Bond villains . They come off more as clowns than men to be feared . Also , even though I enjoy Maryam d'Abo's work in the movie , her Kara Milovy is a little too helpless as written . But any weaknesses I see in The Living Daylights are more than offset by the movie's strong points . Some of the various set-pieces are wonderful . I'm particularly fond of the clever method used to get Koskov into the west . And that final fight scene in the airplane is one of the best found in any of the Bond movies . The plot is interesting and just complicated enough to keep you guessing throughout The Living Daylights . Just when you think you've got things figured out , the plot throws another curve ball . Most of the acting is excellent . Even though it was Dalton's first time in the role , I think he nails it . John Rhys-Davis , in a much too small of a role , and Art Malik really standout and deliver a couple of nice performances . As should be evident , the positives easily outweigh the negatives as far as I'm concerned . I'm one of those who hate the fact that Dalton was only given the opportunity to play James Bond twice . I would have liked to see what he would have done with the role given more time in it .
Violent , trashy , exploitive , and a helluva lot of fun !	That sure was fun ! Ricco ( or The Mean Machine or whatever you want to call it ) may not be the best , most dramatic , or grittiest Euro-crime film I've run across , but it is one of the most entertaining I've ever seen . Ricco ( Christopher Mitchum ) is a young man out for revenge . He's just finished serving a two year prison sentence for attacking the man he holds responsible for killing his father and assuming control of his criminal organization . And now that he's been released , Ricco discovers that Don Vito ( Arthur Kennedy ) has also taken his girl . Let's get this out of the way up-front ? Ricco has its fair share of obvious weaknesses and problems . Chief among them is Mitchum . He may look a lot like his father , but that's where the comparison ends . I'm guessing he was going for introspective and brooding , but unfortunately Mitchum comes off as vacant and robotic . His fight scenes are often hysterical . Watching him go through his kung-fu moves , I can just imagine the director off-screen giving him step-by-step instructions . I've never seen someone move so unnaturally . But I've always said that I rate movies based on entertainment value and Ricco provides a good test of that statement . Looking past Mitchum's shortcomings , Ricco is wildly entertaining . It's a trashy good time . The movie has a feel to it that I found unique for this kind of movie . It never seems to be taking itself too seriously . I may be way off on this one , but to me it's as if the director , Tulio Demicheli , realized how absurd some of the situations were and just let everyone have fun with it . The plot is actually little more than the standard revenge theme , but it held my interest throughout . There's hardly ever a dull moment . Ricco has the violence I've come to expect from this kind of movie ? including one particularly nasty scene that makes something like the cut-off ear in Django look like child's play . The supporting cast is top notch . Arthur Kennedy makes for a wonderfully slimy villain , complete with a ridiculous looking mustache . Ricco's old flame is played by the insanely gorgeous Malisa Longo . And genre favorite Barbara Bouchet's surreal stripper routine in the middle of the road is another of the film's highlights . What more could you ask for ?
" Optimist only sees doughnut . Pessimist sees hole . "	Charlie Chan in Paris is another solid entry in the Charlie Chan series . In this one , Chan is hot on the heels of a gang of bond forgers . The criminals ' trail takes him from the night clubs of Paris to the cities famous sewers . And the sewers in Charlie Chan in Paris are as uninviting a place as Chan ever visited . There's a real sense of menace and danger in these scenes . Warner Oland is as good as ever . Ably assisting Chan is son Lee played by Keye Luke . He may not have been the only son to come to his father's aid in the series , but Luke was by far the best , least annoying of the bunch . Unlike later Charlie Chan films where the offspring are there for little more than comic relief , Lee actually helps his father and saves his life on more than one occasion . The rest of the cast is good , but nothing outstanding . The mystery elements of the story are enjoyable . The criminals ' identities will keep you guessing up to the very end . I suppose that this is as good a time as any to write about my feelings on the racial aspects and controversy surrounding the Charlie Chan films in recent years . Growing up , I'm not sure if I realized Warner Oland wasn't Asian or not , but it didn't matter . Through Chan , Oland taught honesty , self respect , and the importance of education . He taught this young fan of the importance of accepting all people , regardless of race , including Asians . I think these are good important lessons to learn regardless of Oland's ethnic origins . There's an unfortunate scene in Charlie Chan in Paris where one of the characters attempts to make a joke at Chan's expense by speaking to him in pigeon English . Chan quickly turns the table on him with class and grace and makes the would-be jokester the butt of his own joke . Good going Charlie !
" Turner's like a bulldog with eyes up his ass ! "	Truck Turner ( Issac Hayes ) is a former football star turned bounty hunter . His latest case puts him on the trail of a notoriously vicious pimp named Gator . Though it's not his original intention , Turner kills Gator during a gunfight . This is when all hell breaks loose in Turner's life . It seems that Gator's main woman , Dorinda ( Nichelle Nichols ) , isn't too happy about losing her man . She offers Gator's girls and the cash they can bring in to the pimp who can bring her the head of Truck Turner . Issac Hayes may be more of a singer than an actor , but as Truck Turner , he's incredible . Hayes is one cool cat ! Whether it's chasing baddies across a rooftop , pulling out that cannon of a gun he carries , or driving in a high speed chase , Hayes pulls it all off and is believable every step of the way . The film also manages to mix some very nice comedy into all the action . Gator's funeral scene is a scream and real highlight of the film . As you might expect , Hayes did the soundtrack . While the music may not be as memorable as what he did for Shaft , it's still nothing short of phenomenal . Hayes is joined by a very solid group of co-stars including wonderful performances by Yaphet Kotto ( as the mega-pimp Harvard Blue ) , Alan Weeks ( as Turner's partner Jerry ) , and Annazette Chase ( in the small but pivotal role of Turner's girlfriend ) . Kotto's always a favorite of mine , but I was just as impressed by the work of the " unknowns " . But the real stand-out in the cast is Nichelle Nichols . What a woman ! Who knew she had that kind of performance in her ? Watching her slapping around whores is a long way from Commander Uhuru on Star Trek .
Beautiful	- It would be easy to dismiss A Tale of Two Sisters as being like The Sixth Sense or The Others . But that would be a mistake . Yes , there are plot similarities , but A Tale of Two Sisters is immanently more re-watchable . Where the other two movies suffer after you know the twist , A Tale of Two Sisters screams out for repeat viewings . The twist here is more involving , for a lack of a better word . There's just so much here to get your mind around that it's all but impossible to do with one viewing . I'm already looking forward to watching it again . - A Tale of Two Sisters is a hauntingly beautiful film . During several scenes I realized I had a real sense of unease . The characters are so easy to sympathize with that it's hard not to have these feelings when one of them faces danger . The setting adds a lot to the movies atmosphere . The big house with its many dark rooms makes an ideal location for this type of movie . The cinematography is simply stunning . The music , although sparse , fits the film nicely . - Even though I've never seen any of the actors in this movie before ( and I doubt I ever will again ) , the performances are first rate . The two standouts are Su-jeong Lim and Jung-ah Yum . Lim , as the terrified daughter , is a character that I found it extremely easy to feel empathy for . It's amazing to watch her various transformations throughout the movie . And Yum plays the wicked stepmother role to perfection . She's an easy character to root against . - I haven't seen many Korean films ( in fact , this is probably the only one I've ever seen ) , but I'm looking forward to discovering more .
" You know how funny people can be about a spot of murder . "	I've lost count of the number of times I've seen Evil Under the Sun . The natural question may be " Why watch a mystery more than once when you already know whodunit ? " The simple answer ? entertainment . Evil Under the Sun never fails to provide me with almost two hours of entertainment . The movie is so much more than the mystery . Truth be known , Evil Under the Sun is one of the weakest of Agatha Christie's novels relying far too heavily on some absurd coincidences . So beyond the mystery , it's the location , the acting , and the character interactions that bring me back time and time again . - Location : The island scenery is simply breathtaking . The rocky cliffs set against the blue Mediterranean are beautiful . It's hard to believe that such places actually exist . The palace / hotel in which much of the film takes place is filmed in grand style . In short , Christopher Challis ' cinematography is stunning . - Acting : Evil Under the Sun features some wonderful actors having what appears to be a grand old time with their characters . Peter Unsitnov , James Mason , Diana Rigg , Roddy McDowell , and Jane Birkin are all truly wonderful in their performances . But for me , Maggie Smith makes Evil Under the Sun something special . Her catty Daphne Castle is a remarkably enjoyable character . - Character Interactions : Watching any of these fine actors working together is a real treat . But the best example of what makes Evil Under the Sun so much fun is watching Maggie Smith and Diana Rigg go at each other . One of my favorite moments has to be when Smith characters describes why Rigg's character went further as an actress than she did . She explains that not only could Rigg's character kick her legs higher , but also farther apart . It's a wonderfully funny moment .
" Here's your list of friends in the order they died . "	I finally got the chance to see what all the fuss is about . For the most part , Battle Royale lives up to the hype . The violence is as over-the-top as I had been led to believe . What I wasn't expecting , however , was such a well made , engrossing film that's full of some of the blackest humor I've seen in a while . For those uninitiated , Battle Royale is the story of one class of young teens in Japan that are chosen at random to participate in the government's new " game " designed to put order back into society . The class is taken to a deserted island and each member of the class is given a weapon . At the end of three days , the one class member left alive is the winner . If more than one person is alive , everyone dies . The plot may seem completely ridiculous and outlandish , but it works . It's difficult not to be drawn into the film from the very beginning . The action comes fast and furious as classmates kill each other in a variety of inventive ways . Friendships are put to the test , trust becomes something foreign , and love means nothing when it's kill or be killed . Director Kinji Fukasaku does a masterful job of making the characters seem real and sympathetic in Battle Royale ? even those with limited time on screen . The acting is good , the special effects are believable , and the cinematography and lighting are well done . Overall , Battle Royale is a nice combination of compelling story and technical know-how . Battle Royale could have been a near perfect film if it weren't for two faults that I can't look past . First , there are too many unnecessary love stories . While I understand the need to present the relationship between the two main characters , is it necessary to hear every teenager's deathbed confession of love ? Maybe this was part of Fukasaku's sense of humor , but it quickly became tiresome . Second , the ending is a let-down . I was expecting and hoping for an ending as gratuitous as the rest of the film . Instead , Battle Royale limps to a finale that's uncharacteristically bland given everything that came before . Regardless of these two criticisms , Battle Royale is a film that's well worth seeking out . It's a one of a kind experience and new favorite of mine .
A great example of the genre	The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh has just about everything a Giallo fan could ask for . All of the necessary ingredients are here : brutal murders , bizarre sex scenes , plot twists , interesting camera work , a nice score , and Edwige Fenech . - Brutal Murders : The killer uses a razor to slash his victims ' throats to ribbons resulting in plenty of blood flow . - Bizarre Sex : I don't ' know about you but beating the crap out of your partner prior to engaging in sex seems pretty bizarre to me . - Plot Twists : Just when you're sure you finally gotten a handle on the plot and solved the mystery , The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh gives you yet another twist to wrap your mind around . - Interesting Camera Work : The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh is a great looking film with unusual camera angle and lens choices . Visually , it's very pleasing . - A Nice Score : Even though composer Nora Orlandi's main theme is repeated throughout the film , I never get tired of hearing it . It's a hauntingly beautiful piece that helps set the mood of the film very well . - Edwige Fenech : The Queen of the Giallo . The plot involves a crazed killer with an eye for women is on the loose . Julie Wardh ( Edwige Fenech ) is very much afraid because of the direct threats she has received from the killer . She's also convinced the killer is an ex-boyfriend . When the real killer is himself killed , that should put an end to Julie's fears . But it doesn't . The threats against Julie's life continue . I readily admit that there are plot holes big enough to drive a truck through and lapses in logic the size of the Grand Canyon , but that hardly matters when you're having this much fun with a movie . Blemishes and all , The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh is a great example of the genre and one of the reasons I keep seeking out these hard to find Italian gems .
It's like Leone Meets the Three Stooges	- All that gunslinger Jack Beauregard ( Henry Fonda ) wants to do is retire while he's still alive . But Nobody ( Terence Hill ) wants to see Beauregard go out in blaze of glory . Nobody dogs him across the West insisting that if Beauregard will just face one more enemy , he's sure to go down in the annals of history . But Nobody's idea is for Beauregard to have it out with the 150 man strong Wild Bunch - all alone . - The shortest and most to the point description that I can come up with for this movie is " Sergio Leone Meets the Three Stooges " . On the one hand , you've got Henry Fonda in the traditional Western role ( albeit Spaghetti Western ) . On the other hand , you've got Terence Hill performing some of the best slapstick and pantomime since the era of the silent film . It sounds like an unlikely combination , but Valerii successfully marries the two styles into a very enjoyable experience . The scenes with Fonda and Hill together are as good as you'll see in a Spaghetti Western . - While some of Hill's comedy seems goofy and doesn't work that well , most of it is very funny . There are moments of pure genius . The shooting scene in the saloon is a particular favorite of mine . - Morricone's score is amazing . He draws inspiration from and pays homage to some of the earlier scores he did . I was reminded several times of Once Upon a Time in the West , the Dollars Trilogy , and other Spaghetti Westerns . Writing positive comments on a Morricone score is becoming a bit redundant . Did he ever write a score that you could call bad ? - For those of us who have only seen My Name is Nobody on VHS with bad transfers and missing footage , the new Image DVD is a real treat . It was a lot like watching the movie for the first time . I never thought this movie could look so good . My only complaint is the lack of extras . The disc doesn't even have a trailer .
" Truth , like oil , will in time rise to surface . "	Charlie Chan and # 2 son Jimmy join a cruise headed to San Francisco hot on the heels of a murderer . The mad strangler has already killed Chan's friend and colleague from Scotland Yard , so Charlie has to be on his toes . And with the confined space of a cruise ship , suspects at every turn , and even more dead bodies , Charlie Chan certainly has his hands full . When you go about 35 years in between viewings , you not only forget everything about the plot ( including the killer's identity ) , but you also forget how good a movie can be . That's the case with me and Charlie Chan's Murder Cruise . I had the opportunity to check out it out last night for the first time in over three decades . My reaction - what a wonderful movie ! An excellent and convoluted plot , a ruthless killer , red herrings everywhere you look , comic relief that doesn't get in the way of the mystery , and some of the most solid acting you'll find in one of the Toler Chan films help make Charlie Chan's Murder Cruise a real winner . The cast that includes Sidney Toler , Victor Sen Yung , the always enjoyable Lionel Atwill , Leo ( no G . ) Carroll , and Charles Middleton is as good as you'll find in a " B " mystery from the 40s . Another big plus is the film's location . I've always been a fan of a mystery where the killer and suspects are trapped in a place with no hope of escape . And a cruise ship is one of those kind of locations . Add to this list of superlatives I've mentioned some nice pacing from director Eugene Forde and solid cinematography and lighting and you've got the makings of a wonderful entry in the log running Charlie Chan series .
" Only very foolish mouse makes nest in cat's ear . "	As the movie opens , Charlie Chan finds himself at the sentencing phase of trial he has given evidence in against a criminal named Steve McBirney . After McBirney is sentenced to be executed , he shoots his way out of the courthouse and makes his escape . He heads straight to a wax museum dedicated to figures depicting famous crimes and criminals . The museum is run by Dr . Cream . But Dr . Cream has another profession ? he's a plastic surgeon who specializes in making the faces of criminals unrecognizable . Dr . Cream also hosts a regular weekly radio show in his museum dedicated to crime . He invites Charlie Chan to be a guest on the next program . Reluctantly , Chan agrees to appear . But unfortunately for Chan , this week's radio program is a set-up for McBirney to get his revenge against the detective he blames for getting him convicted . If someone would have asked me twenty-five years ago what my favorite Charlie Chan film was , I would have most likely answered Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum . It's got a whole lot to like and a whole lot that appealed to me during my youth . Secret passages , a dark and stormy night , and creepy wax figures all add up to one of the more atmospheric movies in the Chan series . Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum probably comes as close as any of the other Chan films to having actual elements of horror ? something I always go for . As an added bonus , # 2 son Jimmy is less of an annoyance in this film and actually gives an interesting performance as he helps his Pop with the case . It's really not difficult to see why this movie appealed to me . It's just a fun movie ! Well , and unfortunately , my tastes seem to have changed over the past couple of decades . Thanks to the recent R1 DVD release , I was finally able to revisit Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum . And while my rating indicates I enjoyed the experience , it wasn't what I remembered . I could cite a number of problems I had with the film , but I'll just go into the most obvious . When it is discovered that someone was trying to use the wired-up chair to electrocute Chan , why doesn't Chan seem more interested in looking into this particular clue ? Other than being mentioned in passing a few times , the chair is almost forgotten . Shouldn't Chan have tried to discover more about the chair like who hooked it up to the wires or what Dr . Cream knew about it ? Instead , Chan spends his time running around in the dark ( both literally and figuratively ) trying to find a murderer . Sorry , but it doesn't add up .
One of my favorites from the series	I love the Poirot movies ! There's something about England in the 1920s that I find especially appealing . These movies have a way of transporting me to that time and place . The attention to period detail in this series is remarkable ( at least to my untrained eye ) . Clothing , set decoration , cars , and even mannerisms seem spot on . I'm amazed that in the 1990s , locations could still be found that look as they did 70 years previous . The Poirot " regulars " give their usual wonderful performances . It's taken me awhile , but David Suchet has grown in my eyes to become the definitive Hercule Poirot . He nails the character . In many of these movies , the supporting cast can leave something to be desired . That's not the case with Peril at End House . They're quite good . Polly Walker is especially a standout . She gives her character real life . But if you're really going to enjoy a Poirot movie , I think it helps to be a fan of Agatha Christie's books . I say it helps because those familiar with her work seem to be more forgiving of the plot holes , 2-D characters , and other problems with her plots . Fortunately , I have been a fan as long as I can remember . Peril at End House is classic Christie with red herrings , clues , and intrigue at every turn . As Hastings might say , " It's an all around good show . "
Robert Wise scores again	The House on Telegraph Hill is a wonderfully entertaining thriller dealing with a woman living under an assumed identity and the child she claims as her own . The movie may be part of Fox's Film Noir Collection , but it's really more of a Hitchcock " woman-in-peril " type film . The movie may seem unusual when seen today with the modern emphasis on the plot twist . Throughout most of the film , I kept waiting for the inevitable twist that never materialized . The lack of a twist each time I thought I saw one coming was , in its own way , the best twist of all . The House on Telegraph Hill is deliberately paced and shot beautifully by Robert Wise . Some of the interior scenes , especially those in the hallway of the old house , look as good as you'll see . The acting is great with the relative unknown ( at least unknown to me ) Valentina Cortese giving a real standout performance . She has an undeniable screen presence and the ability to draw a viewer in . I really felt for her character's situation throughout the movie . The ending of the film is very nicely done and had me on the edge of my seat . As I was waiting for a twist , I was completely surprised by the final act . The drama and suspense are almost palatable throughout the film's finale . Overall , The House on Telegraph Hill is a very nice , under-seen film .
My favorite Columbo	- A kidnapping proves to be a cover for a man and his uncle to make a quick buck by splitting the ransom money . Things are going along smoothly until the uncle decides to change the plan from a kidnapping to a murder . Columbo is on hand ( with a partner ) to solve the case with his own unique style . - This may be my favorite of the Columbo episodes that I've seen so far . Ray Milland makes an excellent adversary for Columbo . In The Greenhouse Jungle , he proves he could chew the scenery with the best of Hollywood . Columbo's " partner " , Sergeant Wilson ( Bob Dishy ) , is one of the few comic relief type characters I've ever seen that is really funny . The rest of the supporting cast is also quite good . - But the thing that makes this one of my favorite Columbo is the mystery itself . The way Columbo solves the murder in this one is truly surprising . Even though the clue that leads to the resolution of the murder is in plain sight , I didn't realize what it was or even why it was in the movie . It's a notch above the normal Columbo fare . - To anyone unfamiliar with Columbo , this would make a great place to start .
" There's no point living , if you can't feel alive . "	From the time he took over the role of James Bond , I've tended to dismiss the Pierce Brosnan era as one of the weaker periods of the franchise . That assessment was cemented with Brosnan's last outing as Bond in Die Another Day ? quite possibly the very worst of the 21 official Bond movies . But something odd keeps happening . I keep going back to The World is Not Enough . I've actually probably seen it more times in the past 5 years than any other Bond film . I realize now that it's not only Brosnan's best effort in the series , but also it's one of my five or six favorite Bond movies . In The World is Not Enough , Bond is sent to the Caspian Sea to protect an oil heiress , Elektra King ( Sophie Marceau ) , after her father is killed in an explosion at MI-6 Headquarters . King's is in a race with three other groups to be the first to complete an oil pipeline to bring their product to market . And someone seems intent on making sure Elektra doesn't win the race . Bond discovers that a terrorist named Renard ( Robert Carlyle ) may be responsible for the father's death , the threats against Elektra and the pipeline , and the theft of enough plutonium to destroy a good chunk of Turkey . But Bond also discovers that things may not be as they seem . Is Elektra really as innocent as she seems ? Or is she , as unthinkable as it may be , in league with Renard ? There are a lot of things about The World is Not Enough that keep me coming back . The most obvious is the plot . It definitely has a darker , more realistic tone to it than one normally associates with a James Bond film . It has more in common with To Russia with Love than it does the quip-filled gimmicky Bond movies of Roger Moore . And Brosnan does a more than competent job playing Bond with the same sort dark tone . The World is Not Enough actually shows Bond killing in cold blood . Don't get the wrong impression ? there is still humor to be found in the film , but it's used very judiciously . Speaking of realism , other than the whole bullet in the brain making him impervious to pain , Robert Carlyle's Renard is a much more frightening advisory than the cartoonish villains with their ridiculous plans to take over the world . Renard could almost be a real-world terrorist . I also appreciate the increased role for Judy Dench as M in The World is Not Enough . It's good to see M out from behind her desk and in the field . But the real highlight of the film for me is Sophie Marceau as Elektra King . Not only does Marceau prove herself to be a talented actress , but the writers actually gave her something to work with . Too often in the Bond movies of the past , woman who start out as Bond's enemies find themselves swooning after a single encounter . Not Elektra . She remains defiant till the end . In fact , Elektra turns the tables on Bond . She uses Bond the way he normally uses women . And in this instance , Bond's the one doing the swooning . Elektra may not be the normal , run of the mill Bond girl , but I for one am glad of that . As for the negatives found in The World is Not Enough , I'm going to beat the same dead horse found in most other comments and point to Denise Richards . In a word , she's terrible . Her entire career is based on her looks because she certainly can't act . I cannot remember a single actor in any Bond movie ( and that includes the likes of Tonya Roberts ) who was so ill-suited to play their part . Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist ? yeah , right . Five years ago I rated The World is Not Enough a . The rating , however , seems to go up with each successive viewing . I'm at an now . Who knows what will happen the next time I watch this movie .
" I will find out the truth for you , have no fear . "	With civil war raging across England , a man like Matthew Hopkins ( Vincent Price ) finds it easy to take advantage of the situation for his own personal gain . He plays on the fears , superstitions , and jealousies of the locals as they take turns accusing each other of being witches . And if they don't confess , Hopkins gives them to his sadistic enforcer , John Steame ( Robert Russell ) , to beat it out of them . When Hopkins sets his sights on a priest named John Lowes ( Rupert Davies ) and his niece ( Hilary Heath ) , he unwittingly seals his fate . The girl's fianc , Richard Marshall ( Ian Ogilvy ) , will stop at nothing to get his revenge . Vincent Price gave many nice performances during his career , but his portrayal of Matthew Hopkins in Witchfinder General may have been his finest . Price's Hopkins is a very interesting , multi-layered character . While he has absolutely no qualms about unnecessarily punishing and torturing people , he doesn't do the dirty work himself . ( I love the bit where he has the suspected witches thrown into the river with their hands and feet bound . If they float , it must be the devil protecting them . They will be taken from the water and burned . If they sink and die , oh well , sorry ? they must have been innocent . It's certainly a callous view of life that was so wonderfully lampooned in Monty Python and the Holy Grail ) . Hopkins doesn't care about rooting out evil . His objective is the silver he receives when it's all over . He is a cowardly man , selling out those closest to him to save his own skin . And he is quite at ease with granting favors and requests in exchange for sex . One has to wonder if Matthew Hopkins ever believed in God and Satan and witchcraft . Or , as I suspect , did he see it all as an opportunity to line his pockets . Price brings all this to the role . It's an outstanding performance of a multi-faceted character . As I said , it might just be Price's best . The supporting cast is just as good . Russell , Heath , Ogilvy , and Davis are all magnificent . I was especially impressed with Russell . It's easy to forget you're watching an actor and start to believe you're watching a man who enjoys torturing people . The beating he gives Davies is particular nasty . It would be difficult to play a sadistic bastard any better than Russell does in Witchfinder General . It's a real shame the Michael Reeves didn't live longer than he did . After watching Witchfinder General last night , I read the Reeves would have helmed The Oblong Box as his next project . Man , would that have been interesting ! Reeves brought the necessary realism to Witchfinder General . His film has atmosphere and is rough and brutal . The locations are obviously authentic and the set are appropriately sparse . And the film has a gritty look appropriate for the time period . Slick looking digital effects like we see today just wouldn't work in a movie like this . It's obvious that he was working with a very small budget , yet I cannot imagine the film looking much better ( well , the blood might not have been such a bright coral color ) had he had three time the money . My only real complaint with the movie is with the main female character , Sarah Lowes . I realize that she faces unspeakable torture at the hands of Matthew Hopkins ' cronies , but she bends to his will just a bit too easily . She seems more anxious than Hopkins to jump into the sack if it means saving her own skin . I would have liked to have seen her at least make an attempt to stay true to her fianc . It just didn't fit what I would have expected from the character . Overall , Witchfinder General is a real classic of the horror genre . Any self-respecting fan owes it to himself to check it out . I'm so happy to finally have this on DVD . It's one I'll revisit time after time for years to come .
Fulci Goes West	Lucio Fulci may be best known for his zombie fright-fests , but I prefer his non-zombie movies like One on Top of the Other , A Lizard in a Woman's Skin , and Don't Torture a Duckling . I'm happy to say that Massacre Time joins this group of Fulci favorites . Once again , Fulci proves he was more than a gore-obsessed hack . The story is typical Spaghetti Western stuff . Tom Corbett ( Franco Nero ) returns home only to find it's not the home he remembers . His family's ranch and the rest of the town have been taken over by a wealthy and seemingly cruel land baron named Mr . Scott . It's either do as Scott says or face the wrath of his henchmen ? including his psychotic son , Junior ( Nino Castelnuovo ) . Corbett turns to his brother , Jeff ( George Hiilton ) , for an explanation and assistance , but finds he is more concerned with getting drunk than avenging his father's death . Can Corbett set things right for the town and his family ? In typical Spaghetti Western style , the final showdown is not to be missed . This is actually the second of Fulci's Westerns I've seen . While I enjoyed the other ( Four of the Apocalypse ) it was a little too far " out there " for my tastes . Massacre Time is much more conventional in its presentation . Massacre Time has more in common with the works of Leone and Corbuccci ( Django in particular ) than it does with Fulci's other films . And , there's a lot here to like . The acting is top notch . Nero and Hilton are both more than capable of carrying a film on their own and , together , they're dynamite . Nice chemistry from two pros . Coriolano Gori's score is as good as any I've heard . Fulci's direction was never better . The movie has more flow and pacing than some of Fulci's other movies I've seen . And finally , the writing is surprisingly good . Italian genre films are often criticized over their lack of coherent scripts . That's not the case with Massacre Time . Fernanco Di Leo's script is very nice . Overall , it's a wonderfully entertaining film that I'm very glad to have finally discovered .
Very effective giallo	- When a young girl is murdered , her father , Franco Serpieri ( George Lazenby ) , soon grows weary of the ineffective police and decides to start his own investigation . He discovers that his daughters death may be related to other murders of little girls with red hair . He also discovers that some of the people with whom he associates may have something to hide . What he doesn't realize , however , is that the killer will do anything to keep those with knowledge quiet and stop the investigation . - Who Saw Her Die ? is easily one of the better gialli that I've seen . While much of it is textbook giallo ( a black-gloved killer , ineffectual police , investigation by a private citizen , red herrings everywhere , etc . ) , it is all handled in a very effective manner . Aldo Lado builds a nice level of atmosphere and tension throughout the movie . He is aided by having one of the best scores Ennio Morricone ever did . While it may be somewhat repetitive , the main theme is certainly chilling . The setting is absolutely superb . The streets ( or should that be waterways ) of Venice provide a great backdrop for a murder mystery . - I've read numerous complaints about Lazenby in the lead role . I just don't get it . Could it be a little backlash against Lazenby and his unfairly criticized turn at playing James Bond ? My only complaint with Lazenby actually has very little to do with him . I don't know why it was decided to use someone else to dub his voice , but it was a bad decision . Other than that , Lazenby is fine in role .
This thing is never going to heal .	- Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is a spoof of the film noirs popular in the 40s and 50s . While the plot doesn't matter , here it is in a nutshell - Rigby Reardon ( Steve Martin ) is hired by Juliet Forrest ( Rachel Ward ) to find out what happened to her father , a noted scientist and cheese maker . Along the way , Reardon gets shot in the arm ( three times ) , gets slipped a mickey , makes coffee , dresses like a woman , talks on the phone with Phillip Marlowe , loses his pajamas , shaves his tongue , adjusts Juliet's breasts , picks up dog poo , battles Nazis , and falls in love . All in a normal day for a private eye . - The gimmick to Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is mixing the old film clips with the actions of Steve Martin . Carl Reiner does a fabulous job of seamlessly matching not only the look , but the atmosphere of clips from movies like The Bribe and The Killers with the new footage of Martin and Rachel Ward . It's often difficult to tell where one ends and the other begins . Much of the credit must surely go to costume designer extraordinaire Edith Head . Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid was the last of the 426 films she credited as costume designer . Her clothing designs for the new footage perfectly fit the clips from the old movies - many of which she did the original costume design . - Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid may be my favorite movie with Steve Martin . He plays Reardon perfectly . He doesn't play it as a comedy , but straight instead . This makes it all the more funny . Rachel Ward is adequate as the female lead . - The only negative thing I can say about the movie is that the big finale gets a little off-track . Carl Reiner's character is a little too over-the-top and doesn't fit with the straight tone the movie had presented up to this point . A little more realism on his part might have made for a much better ending .
" I'm gonna break him so fast he won't have time to change his pants . "	I picked-up The Big Combo as a blind buy for very little money . And I couldn't be happier with my purchase . Director Joseph H . Lewis created a wonderfully good-looking and compelling film full of atmosphere and interesting characters . This incredibly dark , relatively unknown noir deserves a much wider audience . And when I say dark , I mean as dark as midnight . No one comes out of this one unscathed . All of the characters , even the supposed good ones , are flawed and dramatically affected by the events of the movie . And technically , the movie is just as good . Lewis masterfully uses light and shadows along with interesting camera angles . Most every scene is a feast for the eyes . At the center of the plot is mobster Mr . Brown . He's an untouchable . The police have been unable to pin anything on him even though he's the mastermind behind a successful criminal organization . Richard Conte is Mr . Brown , the head bad guy in The Big Combo . It's a remarkable performance and what makes this movie so special . He oozes evil with the best of them . The only person he cares about is himself . He's the kind of guy who can turn against someone on a dime ? even those who have helped him get ahead . Conte's Mr . Brown is easily one of my favorite heavies I've so far run across . If you're a fan of noirs , The Big Combo is worth seeking out .
I wish Carpenter could still make ' em like this	- A new Lieutenant takes over a police precinct on its very last night . Almost everyone and everything has been moved into the new station . It should be an easy night - just direct all callers and visitors to the new precinct building . But a series of gang deaths will make this night anything but easy . The gang wants revenge and selects the almost abandoned precinct as their target . The gang members have taken a blood oath to die if they must , but someone's going to pay for killing members of their group . With two secretarial types and two death-row inmates , the Lieutenant must fight off the gang's siege on Precinct 13 if he is to survive the night . - Assault on Precinct 13 may start a little slow , but once the action starts , it's kick-ass action all the way . It's not a perfect movie by any means . For example , much of the acting and dialogue are near laughable . But , John Carpenter makes up for this with a gripping , suspenseful story that rarely lets up . Carpenter is able to build atmosphere and chemistry between the characters - things I find lacking in many newer movies . The shoot-outs as the gang members come in waves at the building are flawlessly choreographed . While some of the jokes don't work , many are laugh-out-loud funny . - While I've heard Carpenter say that Assault on Precinct 13 is his modern day Rio Bravo , I think the movie has much more in common with George Romero's Night of the Living Dead . The similarities are almost endless : Both movies have people trapped in a building . The people in both movies are lead by a black man , something still rare in 1976 . The people are under attack by wave after wave of basically faceless hordes - be they zombie or gang member . A character in both movies tries to make a getaway in a nearby vehicle - both with disastrous results . Both movies feature a basically catatonic character that the others will protect for no real reason . Both movies mix characters from different socioeconomic standings into a cohesive fighting force . And so on . - While Assault on Precinct 13 may have its share of flaws , it's one helluva ride .
Nice looking Giallo with an awesome killer	What a fun movie ! If you're a Giallo fan , Red Queen Kills 7 Times is a real winner . To begin with , it's hard to go wrong with Barbara Bouchet and Marina Malfatti in the same Giallo . Both are wonderful - especially the wide-eyed innocent Bouchet as the guilt ridden woman fearing for her life . The kill scenes in Red Queen Kills 7 Times are especially nice and feature enough blood to make most fans happy . One of the first murders comes rather unexpectedly and really gets the movie off to a good start . The killer , The Red Queen , is one of the most over-the-top and interesting looking murderers I've seen in an Italian movie . The 70s sets and fashions are wonderful . In fact , all the visuals are interesting with the laughing Red Queen running across the bridge at night being one of my favorite moments in the film . The convoluted plot held my interest throughout . Finally , Bruno Nicolai's score may be the best I've heard from the composer . The main theme is so memorable I haven't been able to get it out of my head for two days . The only two issues I have with Red Queen Kills 7 Times come in the film's finale . First , the person responsible for the murders is far too easy to spot . If you've seen more than a couple Gialli , you won't have any problem determining who is behind the killings . Second , the ending feels a little too rushed and , as a result , is a bit confusing . I'm definitely not one who needs every plot point spelled out to me , but I'll admit to being at a loss to explain it all . A second viewing might just clear this up .
" I'm in love with a girl , and I'm going to help hang her father . "	Several weeks ago , I decided to give some of the older , less well known Hitchcock films a try . So far , this has been mostly a pleasant experience and has introduced me to several new favorites . Foreign Correspondent may not be the best of the early Hitchcock offerings I've watched recently , but it's still a very solid film . It's the story of a reporter from New York sent to cover the events as Europe stands on the threshold of war . He's soon mixed up in a plot to kidnap the one man who may be able to put a stop to things . But who can he trust ? It doesn't help matters that the woman he has fallen in love with seems to be at the center of his investigation . The biggest flaw in Foreign Correspondent that I see is the length of time it takes to really get into things . The opening scenes are nicely shot , but they're not that interesting . It takes a while for the movie to grab you and pull you in . But once things start happening , it's non-stop action and intrigue . Foreign Correspondent rarely pauses for you to take a breath . Before you know it , you're on to the next scene of increasing suspense . While it's fairly easy to spot the man behind the plot to start war , it's interesting to watch the way Hitchcock allows the events to unfold . Characters do not jump to wild conclusions but work toward them gathering evidence along the way . It's a nice job of storytelling . Joel McCrea is billed as the film's star . And while he's okay , I doubt very sincerely that he would have been able to pull off a film like Foreign Correspondent without a superb supporting cast . I've made no secret about enjoying George Sanders in just about every role I've ever seen him in . He's as good in Foreign Correspondent as ever . The man makes every scene he's in better . The rest of the cast is just as solid with Herbert Marshall being another standout . It's been a joy to discover these films for the first time . If movies like Foreign Correspondent are any indication of things to come , I'm looking forward to continuing my journey through Hitchcock's filmography . Next up : The Lady Vanishes .
A must for fans of eye trauma	Betty is an understudy for the lead in a production of Verdi's Macbeth . When a car mysteriously hits the lead , Betty is thrust into the spotlight . Opening night is a smashing success and Betty decides to leave the after-party to celebrate in private with her boyfriend . But when the boyfriend leaves the room , Betty is grabbed from behind by an unknown black-gloved , masked figure . The unknown assailant ties Betty to a column , gags her , and places needles under her eyes that will cause incredible damage and pain should Betty close them . The boyfriend returns to the room and is stunned to see Betty in such a predicament . He's even more shocked when the killer grabs him and shoves a knife through his lower jaw with such force , the tip of the knife can clearly be seen in his mouth . And Betty has been forced to watch all of this . So begins Betty's terrifying ordeal with a killer not just intent on hurting her , but also on forcing her to watch as he mutilates her friends . Opera gets classified as a Giallo , but to me , it differs in quite a few ways from the model . Less emphasis is placed on the mystery elements of the story than in something like Argento's Tenebre or The Bird with the Crystal Plumage . The black-gloved , masked killer may be omnipresent , but the clues and red herrings normally associated with a good Giallo are absent . Instead , Opera is all about the tension of an unknown killer and making the audience uncomfortable . The focus is on the grisly death scenes , Betty's fear , and the killer's obsession with Betty . Opera features what I think are some of Argento most artistic death scenes . When the killer grabs Betty after her boyfriend leaves the room , you're sure that Betty's had it . But the sadistic killer only wants to force Betty to watch as he brutally stabs her lover in the neck ? the knife emerging in his mouth . It's a well shot and designed scene . And those needles in the eyes ? brilliant . Or , take the death of the seamstress . At first her death seems like an ordinary , run-of-the-mill murder . But when the seamstress accidentally swallows the killer's locket , what started out as just another death scene turns it up a notch as the killer uses a pair of scissors to cut the girl's throat open to get his chain . Finally , there's the most famous death scene in Opera that I'm amazed with each time I see it ? Mira is shot in the eye while peering through a keyhole . That scene displays a lot of what I like about Argento . It's got style to burn . As implausible as it may be , it's creative , memorable , and a blast to watch . Argento certainly wasn't the first Italian director to concentrate on eye mutilation , but in Opera , he's taken eye trauma to a new level . Needles holding eyes open , a bullet in the eye , and ravens pecking out an eye are all part of Argento's vision ( pun intended ) . And these scenes do have the effect that I believe Argento was going for . The first time I saw the killer putting those needles in Betty's eyes , I couldn't stop blinking . It actually had a physical effect on me . What is it about the eyes that make them such a target for abuse in Italian films ? To be fair ( and not sound like such a fanboy ) , there are problems I have with Opera that keep me from rating it as Argento's best . One of my problems is with the air duct system running through Betty's apartment building . While I don't doubt there are air duct systems in older apartment buildings that connect the apartments , the ducts in Opera are HUGE . I'm no expert , but I sincerely doubt any building like the one in this movie would have had such mammoth air ducts . It doesn't seem practical at all . And don't you think someone would have done something about them long ago to keep criminals and nosey neighbors out of the other apartments ? It's convenient for the plot , but it's not very realistic . But I suppose my major problem with the film comes with the finale . What's up with that ending ? It feels totally out of place , tacked on , and like a bad afterthought . I'm not sure what else to say other than it's horrible .
My New Favorite Franco	- A more apt title for the movie might be The Daughter of the Diabolical Doctor Z . Dr . Z doesn't make it through the first 15 minutes of the movie before he dies of a heart attack . His daughter ( also a doctor ) blames those who scoffed at her father's ideas for his death . Continuing with her father's work , she vows revenge . Using his mind control procedures , she creates two " slaves " to carry out her plan . - I have dubbed this movie " My New Favorite Franco " , just beating out Venus in Furs for the title . Where many of his movies seem to lose their way , The Diabolical Doctor Z has a straight forward plot and takes the time necessary to build atmosphere . Too often Franco's films seem rushed or go in so many directions that nothing seems to make much sense . - The choice made by the daughter of the beautiful performance artist , Miss Death , as a " weapon " for her revenge is interesting . Much like a spider , Miss Death first seduces her prey before using her long nails that have been dipped in poison to kill . Miss Death's spider web nightclub dance is a must see . - This is the second Franco film that I've seen that reminded me in some way of Franju's Eyes Without a Face . While the influence on the other Franco film , The Awful Dr . Orloff , is obvious , here it is much more subtle . The face surgery scene is eerily reminiscent of Franju's face surgery scene .
Freaky Stuff !	What a wonderfully creepy and atmospheric film about a witch getting her revenge from beyond the grave . Several centuries ago , Vanessa Whitlock was accused of being a witch and put to death by the ancestors of the Lanier family . Since then , the two families have feuded . As fate would have it , during one of Bill Lanier's building projects , the grave of the accused witch , Vanessa Whitlock , is disturbed . She is set free to finally get back at those she holds responsible for burying her alive . With its recent release on DVD , I've been excited about the opportunity to see Witchcraft . And while I had hoped I would enjoy it , I never expected it to be this good . In short , I loved it . I mentioned it was creepy and atmospheric ? quite honestly , that doesn't begin to describe the sense of unease , the feeling of foreboding , and the numerous frights found in Witchcraft . I admit it ? the first time that Vanessa Whitlock pops up in a room where she shouldn't be , I just about jumped out of my seat . I don't know when I last found a character in a movie that actually frightened me like she did . Actress Yvette Rees doesn't do much other than stand about looking menacing , but does she ever do it well . Freaky stuff ! The credits would have you believe that Lon Chaney , Jr . is the " star " of the movie . While he's the big name in the cast , he's hardly the focal point of the story . As much as I hate to admit this , Chaney actually represents one of the few problems I have with the movie . It's not that he wasn't capable of giving a good performance in a horror movie in 1964 ( because he's not bad in his limited screen time ) , but he's horribly miscast . This is a British movie . It feels British , it looks British , and it sounds British . So just what is the decidedly American Chaney doing in the movie ? It's just silly .
My first experience with Combat !	Combat ! originally aired the year before I was born . Over the years , I somehow never had the opportunity to see show , so this was my first experience . I'm glad the DVD set begins with " A Day in June " as the first episode . The story of how the guys went through D-Day and on to their first mission seems to be a good starting point . While you could pick at the show's lack of realistic action or the absence of blood or the fact that the Germans are treated as little more than stiffs , but these weaknesses are more than offset by the positives . Good acting , intelligent writing , and likable characters make Combat ! and the episode " A Day in June " a winner .
" Everything you touch turns to rigormortis . "	What a wonderfully entertaining and funny movie ! Bob Hope and Company do an incredible job in My Favorite Brunette of parodying the dark detective movies that were so popular at the time . The situations in which Hope finds himself are perfect for his brand of humor . The jokes come fast and furious and , fortunately , most hit their mark . Hope is joined by an excellent cast that includes Dorothy Lamour in the femme fatal role , Peter Lorre as a knife-throwing killer , and Lon Chaney , Jr . as a simple , but ultimately kind gangster whose efforts to help Hope only seem to get him in deeper . The whole supporting cast is great . And director Elliott Nugent keeps the pace flowing with never a dull moment . In fact , it's a first rate job from everyone involved . My Favorite Brunette is one that any fan of classic movies ( especially film noir ) should not miss . I only hate that it took me so long to see the movie .
A rousing success and a ton of fun	An irresponsible U . S . Army doctor has his Korean aid dump a large quantity of toxic chemicals into the sink . The chemicals drain straight into the Han River with an unexpected and disastrous result . The chemicals are responsible for the creation of a giant mutant monster with a taste for human flesh . The creature goes on a rampage and takes a girl named Hyun-seo into the river . She is presumed dead until her father receives a garbled call from Hyun-seo's cell phone . Is she really alive ? Hyun-seo's family takes to the sewers in search of her . I've been a fan of Creature Features for as long as I can remember . I grew up on stuff like Godzilla , Rodan , and the other multitude of giant creatures attacking every major city on the planet . With The Host , we have a new giant creature for a new millennium . And for the most part , it's a rousing success and a ton of fun . The opening scenes are some of the best and most believable ( if any of this stuff can really be called believable ) giant creature on a rampage that I've ever seen . The creature design is great . It's just what I would picture from a something horribly mutated by toxic chemicals . And I can't think of many movies where CGI was used better or more appropriately . It's really quite phenomenal . Equally amazing is the mix of humor and horror present in The Host . Some scenes are creepy while others had me all but laughing out loud . And then there's the ending . I'm not going to give it away , so I'll just say that it's much more touching than I could have imagined . It all but brought a tear to my eye . Overall , The Host features quite an intelligent , well-written script and is surely one of the better movies of this type I've seen in a long time . As much as I enjoyed The Host , it's far from perfect . To begin with , I tend to agree with some of those who found the second act disappointing . It's not that the middle portion of the movie is bad or anything , it's just not the thrill-a-minute of the opening scenes . My other problem relates to the film's anti-American stance . While I would agree that the filmmakers have every right to express whatever political opinion they may have , it's a bit overdone and too obvious in my opinion .
" My dear , would you mind sitting somewhere else ? Body odor offends me . "	Quite simply , Bette Davis dominates every scene and every aspect of The Anniversary . If you don't like Bette Davis , you'd be wise to skip this one altogether . Davis plays Mrs . Taggart , the overbearing mother to three sons . She controls every aspect of their lives . They cannot make a move without her approval . And if she doesn't approve , she's not above ruining one of her sons if it suits her selfish purposes . The Anniversary covers the events surrounding the annual celebration of Mrs . Taggart's wedding anniversary to the late Mr . Taggart . It's Mrs . Taggart's day and she lets everyone know it . She uses this event to cement her control over her sons by threatening financial ruin , jail , and / or public humiliation and by degrading them and their significant others . Bette Davis is in fine form in The Anniversary . She's evil , vindictive , manipulative , and a ton of fun . She chews scenery like nobody's business . The rest of the cast is good , but they are no match for Ms . Davis . Some of the comments she makes to her youngest son's new fianc are unbelievable . One of the best is when she quite casually tells the girl , " My dear , would you mind sitting somewhere else ? Body odor offends me . " Another priceless example is Mrs . Taggart's reaction to the frightened fianc when she discovers Mrs . Taggart's glass eye in her bed . I don't know of many actresses who could pull-off being so rude and just plain evil and still have the viewer rooting for them . Hammer Studios made this incredibly black comedy during the 60s when a lot of aging female stars were taking roles in horror movies . The Anniversary may not be a horror film , but it's certainly not the norm you would expect for someone like Bette Davis . I don't know how The Anniversary did financially upon release , but it's the kind of movie I would have liked to have seen Hammer making more of in the late 60 , early 70s . Who knows ? It might have saved the company .
" Keep away . The sow is mine . "	I'll keep this brief - most every horror fan has seen The Exorcist and all of them have an opinion of it . While many people would most certainly list The Exorcist as THE scariest movie ever made , there seems to be a growing number of fans who find humor where it was not intended . I don't get it . Maybe it's a generational thing , but The Exorcist remains as effective today as it was in 1973 . If the story of a young , helpless girl being turned into a snarling creature isn't horror enough , add to that the desecration of sacred religious symbols and you've got something quite shocking . Beyond the story , the strong performances by a good cast really help put The Exorcist over the top . Max von Sydow was never better . And the performance of an incredibly young and inexperienced Linda Blair is nothing short of remarkable . Add to that the excellent lighting , sound , cinematography , and special effects , and you've got not just a scary movie , but a very well made movie as well .
An incredible thrill ride	What do you get if you mix equal parts Alfred Hitchcock with Dario Argento ? Answer : Brian De Palma's Dressed to Kill . I suppose you could categorize Dressed to Kill as an American giallo . This is one of those movies that would be difficult to discuss the plot without ruining a good portion of the movie , so I won't even try . If you really must know more about the plot , read it here : http www imdb com title tt0080661 I had not seen Dressed to Kill in about 20 years . I had completely forgotten what an effective movie it is . Several particular moments stand out . The first is the art gallery scene . It's basically a long drawn-out game of cat and mouse . Angie Dickinson is at first pursued and later pursues an unknown man . The way De Palma takes the camera around the twists and turns inside the gallery with only the briefest of glimpses of the mystery man is very effective at building tension . It is amazing that he is able to build this tension and then just let it go without the expected payoff . - The second scene that I find particularly well done is the famous elevator scene . Unlike the art gallery , there is very little in the way of build up . An elevator door opens and . . . well you know what happens . The brutality on display in this scene rivals that of the best Italian giallo . The elevator scene was heavily " influenced " by Hitchcock's Psycho . And , the Hitchcock " influence " goes beyond the actual murder . It includes the whole idea of killing off your " star " within the first third of the movie . It must have taken real guts to tell the studio that now that you've hired Angie Dickinson as the star , you're killing her off before the movie is half over . - The third scene that I'll discuss ( or not discuss ) is the finale in the doctor's office . As I stated at the beginning , I don't want to give away too much of the movie . It is all but impossible to discuss this particular scene without doing just that . I'll just say that it's a joy to watch as De Palma plays tricks on the viewer . Not cheap tricks , but tricks that fit within the story . - The only real negatives to the movie are the scenes that take place immediately after the doctor's office finale . The need to explain everything in the finest detail is not necessary . Any viewer with an IQ of the average houseplant already knows what happened . These scenes just feel tacked on and hurt the overall flow of the movie .
A good start to the 1965 season	I've been a fan of The Avengers for as long as I can remember , but unfortunately , I've honestly never seen more than the odd episode here and there . Thanks to Netflix , I've decided to change that . I've also decided to not start at the beginning of the series , but with the 1965 season instead . As many fans will undoubtedly know , 1965 is the season that Diana Rigg joined the show as Mrs . Emma Peel . Mrs . Peel's introduction has to be one of the most " nothing " moments in television history . She's quite literally just there . No fanfare at all . But then again , this is The Avengers . The low-key approach to something like a new major character is in keeping with the show's overall tone . Like the character Steed , " unflappable " is a good work to use when describing the entire series . The first episode of 1965 , " The Town of No Return " encapsulates what I enjoy about the show . Quirky characters , bizarre situations , solid acting , and a sinister air of mystery are all present in this episode . Steed and Mrs . Peel arrive in a small town to investigate the disappearances of several agents who have gone in before them . The quaint little town is situated near a WWII air base . But something is wrong . There aren't enough people . And those who are there aren't who they seem to be . Steed and Mrs . Peel find themselves at the air base investigating an invasion from within ( so to speak ) . Even though this was their first episode together , Diana Rigg and Patrick Macnee are as good always . Their chemistry seems to have been instantaneous . They are joined by a good , but small supporting cast that includes Terence Alexander as the overly genial barkeep named ' Piggy " Warren and Robert Brown ( who I immediately recognized as M from the James Bond films of the 1980s ) as the very sinister Saul . I'm sure that having a director as skilled in horror as Roy Ward Baker contributed greatly to the episodes atmosphere . As is the case with many of The Avengers episodes I've seen , the writing is the real standout . " The Town of No Return " is no different . It's well written and interesting throughout . Though some of the details in the underground bunker near the end get a bit messy , this is a very minor quibble to what is otherwise an entertaining start to the 1965 season .
" You know what I do to squealers ? "	Small-time hood Nick Bianco ( Victor Mature ) is sent up the river for a jewel heist . He refuses to cooperate with the D . A . and will not turn stool-pigeon on his pals . But after he learns of his wife's suicide , he changes his tune . He's got to get out of jail to take care of his two little girls . The D . A . agrees to help Bianco if , in return , Bianco will help the D . A . Bianco fingers Tommy Udo ( Richard Widmark ) for a murder and even agrees to testify at the trial . But , when Udo is acquitted , Bianco knows he's a marked man ? as are his new wife and his young daughters . Kiss of Death is a solid entry in the crime / noir cycle of the 40s . The movie looks good , has some great acting , an intelligent plot , characters you can care about , and enough twists to make it all very interesting . But instead of writing at length about the acting or technical aspects of the film or plot twists or anything else , I'll limit this to a few comments on Richard Widmark . If you look over Widmark's filmography , you'll notice that Kiss of Death was his very first film . Now I haven't seen everything Widmark made , but based on what I have seen , his portrayal of Tommy Udo has to be the performance of a career . He's brilliant as Udo . You can see the evil in his eyes . He's the kind of guy who would just as soon put a bullet in you as look at you . And that maniacal laugh ? it's nothing short of chilling . This is not meant to be hyperbole when I say that he's the quintessential 40s hood played to perfection . I've seen a lot of noirs in recent weeks and I don't think I've seen a performance or character that I've enjoyed more than Widmark's Tommy Udo .
Horror as Art	- A newlywed couple arrive at an ocean front motel to begin their honeymoon . As it's the off-season , they are the only guests . That is until a mysterious Hungarian Countess and her equally mysterious companion arrive and take rooms just next door . It soon becomes apparent that the Countess has designs on the young bride that could lead to her death . Is the Countess responsible for a string of deaths in the area of similar young women who have been drained of their blood ? - If a horror movie could be considered art , Daughters of Darkness would certainly qualify . Almost every scene is like a painting - surreal , lovely , and haunting at the same time . Even the people , especially the mesmerizing Delphine Seyrig as the Countess , look and seem like they've just stepped out of a painting . Seldom do you see a character like the one played by Seyrig that seems so at home in her surroundings . She is amazing to watch . - The movie is very slow moving . I could see many fans of modern cinema being put off by the pace . Don't expect any of the modern MTV style editing or explosions every five minutes . This movie takes its sweet time moving the plot along . But for those who stick with it , you'll be rewarded by one of the most intriguing vampire films ever produced . The slow pace and isolated locations only add to what is surely one of the most atmospheric films I've seen . - While watching the movie , I couldn't help but be reminded of George Romero's Martin . Like Martin , there is a certain ambiguity to the vampires in Daughters of Darkness . There's no doubt they drink blood , but does this make them vampires ? They are certainly not the fanged , super-humans as portrayed in most Hollywood films . Like Martin , they need external assistance to get the blood that they need ( or at least think they need ) .
A good representation of what the genre has to offer	A series of seemingly unrelated women are brutally murdered . The only clue is the silver crescent moon shaped pendant the killer leaves with each body . After the killer is unsuccessful in his attempt to murder a woman on a train , she begins to put the pieces of the mystery together . With the help of her husband , she begins to suspect that the murders may have something to do with a specific period of time years previous when she and the other victims were connected to the hotel her father owned . But can she solve the mystery before the killer discovers she is still alive and strikes again ? Seven Blood-Stained Orchids is a very solid Giallo . It's not as flashy as some as some other Gialli , but the mystery aspects of the movie are intriguing . Seven Blood-Stained Orchids plays out a lot like an Agatha Christie story with a mysterious event in the past , a few baffling clues , and a red herring or two thrown in for good measure . Sure , there are the natural plot holes you'll find in other movies of this type , but they hardly get in the way of the fun . As you might expect , the movie features a few nasty death scenes including one involving power tools . Finally , the supporting cast includes more than a couple recognizable faces to fans of 70s genre films including Antonio Sabato , Marina Malfatti , Bruno Corazzari , and the always delightful Marisa Mell . I've always felt that Seven Blood-Stained Orchids would make a good starting point for someone new to Gialli looking for something other than the more well-known films of Argento and Bava . It's a good representation of what the genre has to offer .
One of the best films of this type I've seen	I have now seen quite a few of the Italian crime films made in the 70s . The Big Racket is easily among the better Poliziotteschi I've so far run across . The violent action is non-stop . The film rarely takes a break for the viewer to catch a breath . Fabio Testi stars as Inspector Nico Palmieri , a cop determined to put an end to the protection racket run by a group of local thugs . But the seemingly small time thugs are actually part of a larger group with the goal of spreading their reign of terror to a much larger scale . Nico enlists the aid of a handful of men who have been directly affected by the gang's activities to help him wipe out the entire group of gangsters . But does this small seemingly rag-tag band of misfits stand a chance against a much larger band of killers ? The Big Racket is gritty , violent , sadistic , and nothing is held back . Director Enzo Castellari has crafted some amazing action sequences . The shootouts at the train station and the final battle at the warehouse are some of the better scenes of this type I've seen . And the scene featuring Testi rolling down a hill inside a car is so well done and so realistic that I actually worried about Testi's health . The Big Racket also features a couple of rape scenes that can be difficult to watch , yet they add immensely to the overall feel of the film and supply realistic motivation for the vigilante actions to follow . These scenes are brutal and sadistic and show the depravity these thugs are capable of and why they must be eliminated . Fabio Testi gives one of his better performances that I've seen in The Big Racket . Unlike The Heroin Busters , where I never bought into Testi's character , he is completely believable in this film . The rest of the main supporting cast is just as good . My favorite supporting performance comes from Orso Maria Guerrini , the marksman who goes mad for vengeance after watching his wife get raped and burned alive . Much of the cast is made up of stunt people who do an adequate job given their limited experiences in front of the camera . Overall , if you're a Poliziotteschi fan or just a fan of American cop films from the 70s and have never seen an Italian crime film , The Big Racket is a definite must .
Nice haunted house flick	- George C . Scott plays John Russell , a fairly well known composer who has recently lost his wife and daughter in an auto accident . To begin his life again , he decides to move and start teaching . He rents an old house from the local historical society . It's not long before he realizes that something is not quite right with the house . The house seems to be haunted . Russell learns that the spirit haunting the house is that of a young boy . A boy that insists he was murdered in the house . - This is one of the better haunted house movies I've seen . In fact , I would rank it in the top five haunted house films of all time . The large , old house , with its hidden attic , makes the perfect setting for this kind of movie . The backstory of the boy that died and the house's history are presented in a series of very spooky and effective flashbacks . Other moments that really stand out in my mind are the ball bouncing down the stairs on its own and the wheel chair chase scene . The ball bouncing scene , in particular , is one of those very subtle creepy moments that can make a movie like this . - The Changeling co-stars Melvyn Douglas in one of his last movie roles . It's a real treat to watch him at this point in his career . Back in 1932 , he appeared in a one of my favorites - The Old Dark House .
One of my favorite A & C films	I've been an A & C fan since I was very young . Back in the early 70s , one of the local television stations featured a steady diet of their films each afternoon . I can't remember if Who Done It ? was part of their rotation , but I now consider it among my two or three favorite A & C films . A & C were at the top of their game at the time this movie was made . And even though the boys were already recycling material from their other films as early as 1942 , the comedy stills feels fairly fresh and innovative . Some of the comedy highlights for me in Who Done It ? include the " Limburger Cheese " and " Two Dimes for a Nickel " skits . Both work really well . In Who Done It ? , the boys find themselves mixed-up in a murder at a radio station . And that is precisely why I'm such a fan of this movie ? the murder mystery . I'm a real sucker for 40s murder mysteries . I might have actually enjoyed the movie even more had the comedy been cut back and the mystery been given even more of a spotlight . As it is , some of the meatier aspects of the story are given little more than lip service and keeps me from rating Who Done It ? even higher than I already have . Another key ingredient to the success of Who Done It ? is the supporting cast . Anytime you see Mary Wickes name listed on a cast roster , you know she'll deliver a solid performance . She may not have been much to look at , but she was a great character actress with wonderful comedic timing . The rest of the supporting cast is above average with performances by Patric Knowles , Louise Allbritton , and William Bendix worth mentioning .
Finally , a good zombie-Nazi movie	- Shock Waves makes the third zombie-Nazi movie I've watched ( or at least tried to watch ) . Previously , I've seen Zombie Lake , which is so bad it's quite funny , and I've tried to watch Oasis of the Zombies but can't seem to stay awake to finish it . So my experiences with zombie-Nazi movies hasn't been too good . Shock Waves , however , is a totally different animal . It's actually good . - The plot is quite simple . IMDb brief plot outline sums it up perfectly - " This horror movie concerns a shipwrecked yachting party . Rose ( Brooke Adams ) and her fellow yacht-mates , including the captain ( John Carradine ) run aground on an island when they hit an odd-looking freighter . Once beached , they meet up with an aging SS Commander ( Peter Cushing ) who had been in charge of a crew of zombies . " What the shipwrecked passengers don't realize is that just off-shore , the zombies lie in wait . - Shock Waves isn't your typical gun-munching zombie movie . In fact , there's very little in the way of gore to be found . Instead , the movie relies on a heavy , foreboding atmosphere to create horror . And it's quite effective . From the very beginning , the sense of dread is real and omnipresent . The open ocean , the island with it's twisted trees and swamps , and the deserted hotel all add to the atmosphere . In addition , rarely have I heard a musical score that was so perfect in setting the tone of a movie . The score effectively sent chills down my spine . And , unlike a lot of horror movies , other than a few of Carradine's scenes in the beginning of the movie , there's very little humor to take away from the atmosphere . - For such a low budget film , the acting is excellent . While Carradine and Cushing have little more than cameos , both add an air of sophistication and authority . Once again , Cushing proves that no matter how far-fetched the script , he can make a viewer believe anything . I also enjoyed the performances of Adams and Luke Halpin of Flipper fame . Maybe it's just me , but Halpin comes across as a poor man's Brad Pitt . The rest of the cast is noteworthy in that they are effective in their given roles . - My biggest complaint about Shock Waves is also one of my favorite moments . The first time we see the zombies rise from the ocean in mass , it's quite a scene . It's a signature type moment that I'll remember for a long time . But , the second time we see the zombies rise , it's not as effective . But by the time we see the zombies come out of the water for a third or fourth time , it begins to feel like filler . Once was good - the second time was pushing it - the third time was one too many . - In the end , I'm certainly glad I didn't let my past experiences with similar movies stop me from seeing Shock Waves . It's great .
Very Entertaining ( regadless of how implausible )	- Nicole Bonnet ( Audrey Hepburn ) is the daughter of an art forger . One of his sculptures is loaned to the museum for display . The insurance company , however , insists that the sculpture be authenticated . With the help of Peter O'Toole , Nicole must steal the sculpture before her father can be uncovered as a fake . - This may be an ultra-light romantic / comedy / heist film , but Audrey Hepburn is always a pleasure to watch . The chemistry between her and O'Toole is almost perfect . The scenes of the pair locked in the museum closet are wonderful . The actual heist , while simple , is very effective and innovative for this kind of movie . The supporting cast of Eli Wallach , Hugh Griffith , and Charles Boyer add a lot to the fun . - There's one inside joke that I had never noticed before that I picked-up on during this viewing . In one scene , Hepburn is presented with the costume of a scrub woman to wear . The following exchange gave me a real chuckle : O'Toole : Yes , that's fine . That does it . Hepburn : Does what ? O'Toole : Well , for one thing , it gives Givenchy a night off . - It seems that Givenchy was Hepburn's real life designer and did all of her clothes for her films .
" Performance and image , that's what it's all about . "	I watched Two-Lane Blacktop last night for the first time and all I can say is " Wow " . While I may not be one of those who proclaims it to be the greatest movie ever filmed , it is certainly a fine piece of American cinema . I'm not sure I've ever seen a film quite like it . That's because there aren't many directors out there like Monte Hellman with the guts or patience to make something like Two-Lane Blacktop . For starters , the cast includes non-actors in three of the four main roles . I think all do a wonderful job and their lack of experience ( James Taylor being the best example ) actually worked in the movie's favor . The fourth actor , Warren Oates , gives another amazing performance . Next , Hellman made a 102 minute movie that has about 15 minutes of dialogue . But you know what , it doesn't need any more . Taylor as The Driver and Dennis Wilson as The Mechanic don't need to talk . Their car does all the talking for them . And when they do talk ( except for a rare , poignant moment near the end of the film when The Driver shows a hint of humanity ) , their conversations revolve around carburetors and such . Anyway , Oates ' character , GTO , does enough talking for everyone . Hellman also made a movie with so little action ( other than a few race scenes ) that some people look at it and see nothing . I don't know how many comments I've read that call Two-Lane Blacktop " boring " or " dull " . I see a lot going on in the movie but I think it's either too subtle for some people or they don't have the patience to just go along with it . The movie can most likely be interpreted a number of ways , but to me Two-Lane Blacktop is the story of four people on a journey . For The Driver and The Mechanic , they may have found what they're looking for in their car . The thrill of the next race and the challenge of the next tune-up are all that matters to them . As for GTO , he's looking for his life . He spins wild tales hoping one will stick . And The Girl is looking for someone to take care of her . The Driver , The Mechanic , and GTO are nice enough , but all are so into their own reality that they are incapable of giving The Girl what she needs . Finally , I've read all the charges that Two-Lane Blacktop has no ending . I'll argue that it ends the only way it could . Just because the movie's over , it doesn't mean that any of the four characters have finished their quests . They started the movie looking for something and they end it the same way . I'll stop there . I just hope my ramblings aren't quite as incoherent as they seem . In the end , I can easily see why this movie's not for everyone , but for me , Two-Lane Blacktop works ? and works well . It's an amazing experience that I'm glad I finally had . For what it's worth , I'll give it a . That rating will most likely go up after a repeat viewing now that I know what to expect .
" Once a man has dipped his fingers in blood , sooner or later he'll feel the urge to kill again . "	As Sherlock Holmes ' puts it , the members of group of older gentlemen known as The Good Comrades have only one thing in common ? they're all worth more dead than alive . One by one , the members of The Good Comrades are bumped-off in horrifying ways after receiving an envelope containing orange pips ( seeds to us Yanks ) . Holmes discovers that the members of the group have made each other beneficiaries on their insurance policies . Could one of The Good Comrades be behind the string of mysterious deaths ? It sure looks to be the case . The House of Fear is near the top of my favorites list when it comes to the Rathbone / Holmes films . It's a wonderfully entertaining mystery with a nice old dark house for a setting . My favorite of the Holmes films are those with a touch of horror . When you combine horror and mystery successfully as in The House of Fear , you've got a winner as far as I'm concerned . I've seen comments on the internet on how easy it is to figure this one out . Sure , but it's a lot of fun watching Holmes and Watson get to the answer . As I'm learning as I watch these Holmes films , Watson again is given the opportunity to steal some quality time from Holmes . His late night shoot-out is wonderfully funny . Roy William Neil is probably one of the best things that happened to Universal's Holmes series . His entries in the series have a tone and look to them that makes them stand out . For what ever reason , I hardly ever see him mentioned when people discuss the great directors of the 30s and 40s . He's easily someone I consider under-appreciated .
This ain't your grandfather's Western	The plot of Sabata sees the title character ( played by Lee Van Cleef ) stopping a bank robbery only to blackmail those responsible . The robbery ringleaders don't see too kindly to this and look to take out our hero and the rest of his ragtag bunch . Sabata has everything I look for in a Spaghetti Western - good gun fights , over-the-top violence , quirky characters , some nifty acrobatics , a plot that stretches credibility , and a strong anti-hero . Another thing Sabata has going for it is a sense of humor . The entire movie is done with the tongue planted firmly in cheek . If you take none of it very seriously , it's a lot of fun . Just remember - this ain't your grandfather's Western . Other than the better known Sergio Leone films , this may be the best Spaghetti Western Lee Van Cleef made . He's almost perfect as the killer with nerves of steel capable of hitting a target at the most ridiculous of distances . He seems to always be at least two or three steps ahead of his adversaries . The supporting cast is just as good with William Berger and , in particular , Ignazio Spalla ( aka Pedro Sanchez ) giving nice performances . Spalla is one of the highlights for me of all the Sabata films . Another thing I really enjoy about Sabata is the music . It's one of the better , more-catchy non-Morricone scores I've heard . I don't care how many times I've seen the movie , I always get that theme music stuck in my head . It's a silly tune , but it works for me .
Excellent Hammer Vampire Story	- This was my second opportunity to see Kiss of the Vampire . Watching and enjoying a Hammer film is what I call a very comfortable experience . And , Kiss of the Vampire does not disappoint ? it is very comfortable . - The basic story ( with possible minor SPOILERS ) : A couple honeymooning in Bavaria becomes stranded . They soon meet the local " big man " , Ravna , and are invited to visit with him and his family at their chteau . They are later asked to attend a party at the chteau . During the party , the husband and wife are separated . While the husband is being drugged , the wife is being bitten by Ravna and made a member of his vampire cult . The husband wakes and must do whatever he can to save his wife . Anymore of the story would be too much . - Most of the acting was at least adequate . The exception to this was Ravna's son as played by Barry Warren . A tree limb could show more emotion . - Being a Hammer film , you expect it to have that Hammer look . There was no disappointment here . The colors are as rich as you would expect . The ball gown worn by the wife has to be one of the most vivid shades of red ever filmed . In addition , there's plenty of the bright red blood so famous in Hammer films . Overall , this is a very visually pleasing film . - My biggest complaint with Kiss of the Vampire was that Lee and / or Cushing are missing from the proceedings . Either's presence could have easily made this one of Hammer's best vampire films .
" Hey Kowalski , you out there ? "	Kowalski is a driver . It's all he's known whether from his former life as stock car driver or a policeman . Driving is in his blood . His new job is delivering cars across the country . His assignment is to take a Dodge Challenger from Denver to San Francisco . And Kowalski intends to do it in record time . It's not long before Kowalski has the police from four states hot on his trail . There's really not a lot you can write about Vanishing Point without first discussing the film's finale . And , it's almost impossible to discuss the ending of Vanishing Point without giving it away . I'll try not to give too much away , but it will be difficult . Vanishing Point is as nihilistic a movie as I've seen . Why did Kowalski do what he did ? And why does Kowalski even have to get to San Francisco in such a hurry ? The way I see it , the two are related in Kowalski's desire for freedom . He does what he does at the end of the movie to express the ultimate freedom . Also , in Kowalski world view , driving represents freedom . He is driving from Denver to San Francisco because that's what he does ? he drives . It may not be the way you or I see the world , but it's Kowalski's way . Beyond the ending , Vanishing Point is a fascinating movie . If you don't think you would find scene after scene of a 1970 Alpine White Dodge Challenger going down the highway exciting , Vanishing Point might not be a good choice for you . I'll admit , however , that once he reached the vast , limitless desert , I began to worry that I might also lose interest . But it's these seemingly endless scenes interrupted by Kowalski's flashbacks or a chance meeting with a stranger that make the ending so powerful . There's no predicting what's about to come . It's an awesome experience !
A solid modern day made-for-TV Italian crime thriller	Back in the late-80s / early-90s , Michele Soavi appeared to be the one of the few bright spots in Italy's struggling film community . But after making Cemetery Man in 1994 , he seemed to have dropped off the face of the Earth . While Uno bianca is the only thing from Soavi that I've seen since his return , he doesn't appear to have lost anything that made him such a promising director . The direction and other technical aspects of the film are nicely done . Soavi obviously knows how to put together a long film and keep it flowing . At 200 minutes in length , Uno bianca is a long film . But not once during the entire runtime did I ever get bored . In fact , I was so entertained that I actually wanted more . While not necessarily groundbreaking , the cinematography and editing provide a lot of interest . There's a definite touch of style running throughout the film that adds much to the enjoyment . Uno bianca is the story of the police's attempt to put a stop to a group of murderous robbers known as the " Uno Bianca Gang " . Tired of the ineffective police bureaucracy , Officer Valerio ( Kim Rossi Stuart ) and his partner , Rocco ( Dino Abbrescia ) , decide to take a different approach to put a stop to the gang . By re-interviewing witnesses , wiretapping phones , and setting up video surveillance , Valerio is convinced that he and his partner can discover who is behind the gang and stop their reign of terror . While the plot may sound similar to some the poliziotteschi made in the 70s , Uno bianca is more akin to a police procedural and lacks the over-the-top violence and outrageous plot points often found in those films . The film has more in common with the television show Law & Order than it does some of its Italian predecessors like Almost Human or Syndicate Sadists . Uno bianca is based in reality with real people carrying out a real investigation . That's not to say there aren't scenes of violence and bloodshed , but these moments remain firmly grounding in the real world . A film as long as Uno bianca will only work if the acting is good and believable . Stuart is excellent in the lead role . He has a quiet confidence about him that works . Stuart's Valerio is the kind of character that's easy to believe in and root for . In contrast , Abbrescia plays Rocco a little more laid back and fun-loving . Still , he's no less committed to his job . He's the kind of guy you would like to have for a friend . And finally , Pietro Bontempo is perfect in the role of Michele , the leader of the " Uno Bianca Gang " . Botempo gives Michele the intelligence and ruthlessness necessary to head-up a criminal enterprise . Similar to the point I made when discussing the plot , it's the realism these actors give to their characters that helps to make Uno bianca work . Good job , guys !
" Get three coffins ready . "	A Fistful of Dollars is often incorrectly called the first Euro or Italian or Spaghetti Western . In fact , there were a number of Euro-Westerns made prior to Sergio Leone's A Fistful of Dollars . However , in comparison with Leone's first Western , the few Euro-Westerns I've seen tend to be little more than copies of American Westerns . Instead , Leone was first to usher in a new style of Western . Leone created a less romanticized Western where characters had faults , got dirty , and bled . A Western where the line between the good guys and the bad guys was blurred . A Western where events were unpredictable . A Western where the violence was over-the-top . The Spaghetti Westerns like A Fistful of Dollars may have had little in common with the real Old West , but neither did the Hollywood Western . And I'm not sure that Leone and the rest cared that their films lacked historical accuracy . The real West wasn't their inspiration ? the Hollywood Westerns were their inspiration . These were entertainment pieces first and foremost . And if the audiences of the 1960s were entertained by this new style Western , Leone was going to give it to them . It's impossible to mention A Fistful of Dollars and not discuss the genius of Sergio Leone . In this movie , you can see early examples of directorial flourishes that would become Leone trademarks . The extreme close-ups followed by enormous widescreen shots , the extended showdowns , and the use of music as an integral part of a film can be seen in his first Western effort . But just as amazing and genius as Leone and just as important to the success of A Fistful of Dollars is Ennio Morricone's score . I'm sure audiences familiar the Hollywood style of scoring were shocked by Morricone's music with its series of whistles , chirps , and other experimental sounds . It was a new sound for a new kind of Western . And it's brilliant . At its core , A Fistful of Dollars is a very simple movie . The plot is simple ( and even more so if you've seen Yojimbo ) . Clint Eastwood rides into town and discovers two warring factions . He uses the animosity they have for each other for his own gain . Like I said , it's simple . But the film's simplicity extends beyond the plot . Partially for budgetary reasons and partially the result of some judicious cutting and editing , there's very little in the way of fat . For example , the dialogue in A Fistful of Dollars is often very minimal . Considering the fact that he's the lead performer , Clint Eastwood's character has very few lines . Instead , Leone and Eastwood allow a look , an action , or a note from Morricone's incredible score to speak for Clint . Simple ? - yes , but very effective . Beyond Leone's direction , Morricone's score , and the style of the Spaghetti Western , A Fistful of Dollars excels in several other areas - especially the acting . For the budget the film was made on , the acting is superb . Eastwood and his minimalist " Man with No Name " may be the known quantity , but there are other , equally impressive performances in the movie . Chief among them is Gian Maria Volont as the crazed Ramon . It's an amazing piece of work . As much as I enjoy Eastwood , it's Volont that makes the movie for me . Finally ( and I'll end here because I could probably go on writing all night ) I sometimes wonder if Leone or Eastwood or anyone involved with A Fistful of Dollars had any idea of what they were doing . Did they have any notion that more than 40 years later these movies would be more beloved than when they were made ? I sincerely doubt it . I'll never forget the night I discovered Leone's Dollar Trilogy . I was in college in the early 80s and WGN was playing A Fistful of Dollars and For a Few Dollars More back-to-back . I was blown away ! My conception of what a Western was changed that night . And I've been a huge fan every since . Thank you , Mr . Leone .
70s exploitation doesn't get much better than this	As she walks home from school , Candy ( Susan Sennett ) is kidnapped by three small-time criminals looking to make the big-time . Their plan is to hold Candy for a fortune in diamonds from the store her father manages . But when Candy's father doesn't make it to the drop-off point , things go from bad to worse for Candy . Going into The Candy Snatchers , I wasn't expecting such a competently made , entertaining film . It's a masterpiece of 70s sleaze and exploitation . Candy's ordeal is brutal and , at times , difficult to watch . The scenes of Candy being buried alive with only a one-inch pipe for air are so real that you can't help but feel for the bound and gagged Susan Sennett . The script is surprisingly intelligent and presents some nice twists involving Candy's father ( played to perfection by Ben Piazza ) and his reluctance to meet the ransom demands . The script also goes out of the way to flesh-out the three would be kidnappers and gives us an insight into what makes them tick . Finally , I love the ambiguous ending as to Candy's fate . It gives you something to think about long after the movie has ended . The Candy Snatchers is very nicely done . There's also a subplot involving a very young mute boy and his abusive parents . As bad as I felt for Candy and her predicament , I felt equally bad for little Sean . The events in the film's finale involving the little boy are amazing in their simple , but violent nature . Sean was played by the director's son , Christophe . I don't know when I've seen a better , more believable performance from someone so young . If you're a fan of 70s drive-in fare , you must seek out The Candy Snatchers .
Comfortable and always welcome	When I arrived home from work today , I found the Mr . Moto Collection waiting on me . I decided to watch the movies in order and start with the first in the series , Think Fast , Mr . Moto . It's the story of a diamond smuggling ring operating aboard a luxury liner between China and the U . S . The mysterious and ever present Mr . Moto is on hand to put a stop to the illegal activity . Think Fast , Mr . Moto is the kind of movie that's best enjoyed curled up on the couch late at night when you want to put your brain on hold and just be entertained . It's like that favorite old , ratty shirt ? comfortable and always welcome . The plot in Think Fast , Mr . Moto may not make much sense ( even after everything has been explained ) but it's a lot fun . The film would hardly be as good without Peter Lorre in the title role . Unlike most everything I've see him in , Lorre gets the chance to be the hero here and is excellent in the role . The final cat and mouse game between Lorre and the always entertaining Sig Ruman is the highlight of the film ( although I must admit that it's difficult to watch Ruman and not want to laugh as images of the Marx Brothers pulling off his toupee went through my head ) . I can't wait to watch the other three films in the collection .
" These eyes will deceive you , they will destroy you . "	Unlike some other fan comments I read on the internet , as soon as I heard the news that Rob Zombie was going to remake Halloween , I was ecstatic . Halloween has always been a favorite of mine . In fact , I've probably seen it more times over the years than any other horror movie . As for Zombie , I loved both his first two movies ( yes , I loved what I consider to be the very underrated House of 1000 Corpses ) . The whole project seemed like a sure fire winner to me . Overall , I enjoyed Zombie's reinterpretation of John Carpenter's classic quite a bit . It's not perfect , but it's a damn good effort . While I appreciate the fact that Zombie followed the basic storyline of the original , he threw in enough of his own ideas and scenes to keep it original and keep the audience guessing . One thing that makes me laugh are the comments I've read that complain the movie has too much foul language , too much violence , and too much nudity . What were these people expecting ? It's a Rob Zombie movie ! The final chase scene is for the most part expertly handled . The old Myers house becomes more of a focus and I enjoyed the chase going through every conceivable room and level . And just when it seemed the chase was over , Zombie's inclusion of false endings really caught me off guard . I was very impressed with the direction of this portion of the film . Other highlights for me included some of the acting . Daeg Faerch is surprisingly good as the young Michael Myers . He has an innocence about him that he plays to his advantage . I'm also surprised at how effective Sherri Moon Zombie was at playing Michael's mother . After her husband's first two movies , I thought of her as little more than a one note actor . While she will never get near an acting award , she did show a little range with her performance in Halloween . And Malcolm McDowell is . . . well , he's Malcolm McDowell ? a wonderful actor . I don't think there's much more that need be said . The music was a real asset in the movie . Zombie used Carpenter's original score to great effect and mixed in some nice period pieces . I've seen some on the internet complain about the inclusion of the song " Love Hurts " at a particularly key moment in the movie . Well , I loved it and thought it fit perfectly . Finally , I've just got to say I loved some of the casting decisions , particularly the cameos . Some seemed quite natural ? Danny Trejo as an institution worker , Clint Howard as a doctor , and Sybil Danning as a nurse . But Micky Dolenz from the Monkees as a gun store owner ? How cool is that ? Freakin ' Micky Dolenz ! Okay , enough of the good . As I said in the opening , the movie's not perfect . But I'm not going to sit here and pick the movie apart , so I'll limit this to three of the most obvious faults I saw in the movie . First , the opening 30 minutes that detail Michael's childhood before the killings start goes on far too long and takes away from the mystery of Michael . Too many movies try to explain away everything . Zombie , unfortunately , falls into this trap . Next , I've got a real problem with the way Zombie chose to present Laurie Strode and her friends . There's no real attempt to make them more than one dimensional characters . Who are they ? Why do they do the things they do ? Why should I care about them at all ? Finally , and this is a biggie , I have a problem with ( and though I've tried to limit the comparisons with Carpenter's movie , this one has to be mentioned ) the lack of atmosphere and subtlety in this version of Halloween . Zombie seemed to be rushing the last half of the movie and missed out on what made the original a classic . How many times did Michael materialize out of the shadows in the 1978 movie ? Man , was that ever creepy or what ? Zombie seems content to let the audience know exactly where Michael is at all times . And if you do lose sight of him , be patient ? he's bound to come crashing through a wall at any minute . It really lessens the mystery and suspense . But when it gets right down to it , regardless of the strengths and weaknesses I see in a particular movie , it's all about entertainment . Did the movie entertain me ? It may sound shallow , but that's the most important factor for me . And when it comes to entertainment , Rob Zombie's Halloween was very successful . I had a great time in the nearly packed theater and I think the others did as well . It's been awhile since I've seen a movie where people clapped when it was over . And about half the crowd did just that at my opening night showing . I may change my opinion after repeat viewings , but for now I'll give it an . Good going Rob ! Looking forward to seeing what you come up with next .
Another winner from Corbucci	- Joseph Cotten is an ex-Confederate soldier who would like to see the South rise again . To finance such a venture , he and his three sons rob a Union convoy carrying $1 million . The money is placed in a coffin and disguised as the dead husband of Cotten's " daughter " - really just a woman he has hired to play the part of a widow in case they get stopped . The group will have to evade not only the Union Army , but also Mexican bandits , revenge minded Indians , a posse , and each other if they are to get home with the money . - After having seen Hellbenders , I'm convinced now more than ever that if it weren't for Sergio Leone , Sergio Corbucci would be the recognized master of the Spaghetti Western . Hellbenders fits nicely beside Corbucci's other genre masterpieces . It may not be as over-the-top as Django or as beautiful as The Great Silence , but in it's own unique way , it's almost as good . Hellbenders takes it's own sweet time telling its story , and that's a good thing . You really get to know the characters and develop feelings for them . The acting , whether it's the crazed brother Jeff ( Gino Pernice ) , the sympathetic Claire ( Norma Bengell ) , or the always entertaining Cotten , is as good as you'll see in this kind of movie . The ending is marvelous . It's got to be one of the most satisfying twist endings I've seen in a SW . - For those familiar with SWs , all I really need to say about the score is that it was composed by Ennio Morricone . That should be enough . The main theme is a trumpet-dominated mournful piece that grows in meaning throughout the film .
" If you ain't got socks you can't pull ' em up , can you ? "	Harry Fabian ( Richard Widmark ) is a small-time hustler with big-time aspirations . All he needs is that one big chance . Fate seems to be smiling his way when he meets a very famous Greek wrestler and his protg . If he plays it just right , Fabian is convinced he can turn this chance meeting into a wad of cash and make himself the biggest wrestling promoter in England . Just as things are looking up , forces beyond his control and a series of inopportune events conspire to destroy Fabian's dreams . But at what price to Fabian and those around him ? One word often used to describe film noir is " dark " . Night and the City is as dark as they come . It's as dark and black as midnight . None of the characters comes out of this one unscathed . Not Fabian , not his girl , not his business partners , not his wrestlers , not the competing promoter , not the people he once hustled for ? No one ! There is no " happily ever after " Hollywood-style ending to this movie . Every character with more than 30 seconds of screen-time ends up like damaged goods . But it's this nihilistic view that makes Night and the City so compelling . It's akin to watching a train wreck ? impossible to turn away . The acting in Night and the City is , for the most part , outstanding . Widmark , Herbert Lom , Hugh Marlowe , Mike Mazurki , Francis Sullivan , and Googie Withers are all tremendous . But the performance that really caught my eye was that of Stanislaus Zbyszko as the Greek wrestler Gregorius . Zbyszko was a wrestler ? not an actor . And the fact that his performance is as good as the trained and noted members of the cast is no small feat . Not only does he dominate his scenes physically , he more than holds his own when it comes to conveying emotion and feeling . It's truly an awesome performance . But as good as Night and the City is , it is not without faults . Two that standout are Gene Tierney and the film's runtime . Notice I wrote that the acting was good " for the most part " . The exception is Tierney . She does absolutely nothing to distinguish herself . She's merely adequate . But , it's not like she had much to work with . I wonder why the money was spent to hire a " name " like Tierney and then so underutilize her talents ? As for the runtime , the movie feels a little long . A tighter script that eliminated some of the extraneous " stuff " would have made the film even better to me . But then again , who am I to criticize the editing decisions made on a classic like Night and the City ?
" He doesn't want to let his left hand know whose pocket the right one is picking . "	The Big Clock is a wonderfully entertaining noirish thriller with , and unlike most of its deadly serious counterparts , a touch of humor . Ray Milland is a man trying to solve a murder . His problem is that the killer he's looking for is himself . Think of it as a cat-and-mouse game where the cat and mouse are the same person . The acting is top notch with Milland as the man caught between a rock and a hard place , Charles Laughton at his greasiest best , and George Macready as the prototypical " yes man " . My only complaint with the cast is how Maureen O'Sullivan is underutilized . The supporting cast is terrific with Elsa Lanchester supplying most of the laughs . Very nicely done . Nothing against Ray Milland because he does a great job , but the whole time I watched The Big Clock , I couldn't help but think that the role was tailor made for Cary Grant . It might have made this terrific film more widely known .
" I have yet to meet anybody in this household that has even the most rudimentary sense of humor . "	Harry Lee , a wealthy and curmudgeonly old coot , invites Hercule Poirot to spend Christmas with him and his dysfunctional , greedy , money-hungry relatives . On hand are Lee's three sons , their two wives , and a Spanish granddaughter whose late mother was Lee's only daughter . Though Lee seems to relish tormenting his offspring with talk of changing his will , he tells Poirot that he's afraid for his life and wants Poirot to keep and eye on his family . As it turns out , Harry Lee's fears are proved to have been well founded when he's discovered with his throat slashed behind a locked door . With the able and welcome assistance of his friend Inspector Japp , Poirot sets out to find a killer for Christmas . Hercule Poirot's Christmas is one of the very few Agatha Christie books that I haven't read . Therefore , I have no idea how faithful or unfaithful the movie is to the book . And quite honestly , that may be one of the reasons I enjoyed Hercule Poirot's Christmas so much ? I went into it completely blind with no expectations . It has all the traits that I love about a good Agatha Christie mystery ? a murder committed in a locked room , a house full of greedy relatives , a bitter old coot of a murder victim , and a gathering of the suspects for the final reveal . The killer's identity wasn't too awfully difficult to figure out , but the how it was done was quite interesting . Like most of the Poirot episodes , Hercule Poirot's Christmas looks fantastic with interesting sets , nice period touches , and solid cinematography and lighting . The acting from most of the supporting players is what I would call okay . The exceptions would be the notable performances of Vernon Dobtcheff as Harry Lee and Sasha Behar as Pilar Estravados . Phillip Jackson gives his usual enjoyable performance as Inspector Japp . And David Suchet is as good as always in the role of Poirot . I can't believe that there was a time just a few years ago when I didn't care for Suchet . Now , not only do I enjoy Suchet's performances , but I consider him the definitive screen version of Poirot . Quite simply , David Suchet IS Poirot !
A tragic story with quite the entertaining group of characters	' Mother ' Gin Sling ( Ona Munson ) runs a very successful gambling house in Shanghai . Through her doors pass a wide variety of individuals from every exotic corner of the globe . One such individual is a spoiled young woman who goes by the name of " Smith " ( Gene Tierney ) with a penchant for gambling and drink . It's not long before " Smith " is up to her eyeballs in IOUs and well on her way to becoming a complete lush . Coinciding with these events , a wealthy man named Sir Charteris ( Walter Huston ) arrives in Shanghai . Part of his business deal involves the land that ' Mother ' Gin Sling's establishment sits on . ' Mother ' Gin Sling believes she may have previously met Sir Charteris , but under a different name and in far different circumstances . To save her business , ' Mother ' Gin Sling puts two and two together to connect " Smith " with Sir Charteris and lets the chips fall where they may . Many of the people who care about and enjoy older films like The Shanghai Gesture will no doubt pick-up the film because of Gene Tierney ? the biggest " star " in the cast . But they'll quickly discover that The Shanghai Gesture is so much more than Tierney . The movie features a wonderful ensemble cast playing a group of highly eccentric characters . To begin with , there's Ona Munson as ' Mother ' Gin Sling . Maybe it's the costuming and maybe it's the attitude , but I bought her performance . Next , there's Victor Mature as Dr . Omar the Arab gigolo . He's the kind of fellow best described as slimy . Two of my favorite characters in The Shanghai Gesture are Eric Blore as Ceasar the English bookkeeper to ' Mother ' Gin Sling and Clyde Filmore as ' Mother ' Gin Sling's flunky , Percival Montgomery Howe . Mix in an American showgirl , a Russian barkeeper , a rickshaw driver of questionable origin , and about a half-dozen others and you've got quite an eclectic and entertaining group of actors and characters . As much fun as the people in the film are , at its core , The Shanghai Gesture is a terribly tragic and sad story . Most of the people who come to ' Mother ' Gin Sling's place do so because they have to , not because they want to . Whether it's " Smith " looking for her next gambling fix or those who do her bidding like Dixe the American showgirl , they come because ' Mother ' Gin Sling holds something over their heads . Nobody seems to really want to be there . Deep down , most of these people seem miserable . The ending of The Shanghai Gesture takes the bleakness from just beneath the surface and thrusts it into the light of day . I won't give it away , but I will say that there are no winners in The Shanghai Gesture . Everyone comes out a loser . Finally , one of the most impressive aspects of The Shanghai Gesture is the set design . Instead of a seedy , back-alley sort of gambling joint , ' Mother ' Gin Sling's place is like an Art Deco shrine . I'm continually amazed at the care and money that went into these sets found in films from the 30s and 40s . Today , much of it would be done with computer effects . So when I see something like the four-story , circular gambling house in The Shanghai Gesture , I can't help be amazed .
" You're all the same the lot of you , with your long hair and faggot clothes . "	And to think , I've avoided this movie for years . I love horror movies , but I'm not the biggest zombie fan in the world . But Let Sleeping Corpses Lie is different . It's intelligent , dark , witty , and creepy ? and that's a hard combination to achieve . I've read a number of reviews that complain about the acting and I don't get it . I thought that Cristina Galbo , Ray Lovelock , and Arthur Kennedy were excellent in their roles . No one was going to win an award for this movie , but they're certainly not as bad as others have indicated . I also appreciate the fact that the film features what I'll call scenes of " controlled gore " . There certainly are a few disturbing images , but Director Jorge Grau never lets the gore go over-the-top into quasi-parody and that's a good thing . My only complaint would be with the final scene . It's just so unnecessary . Let the movie end on a dark note . There's nothing wrong with that .
Very good horror / action film	- Two couples in a new RV set out on a trip from San Antonio to Aspen . The first night , they park in a secluded area next to a small river . It seems like an ideal spot . But later that night , something horrific happens just across the river . The two men watch in horror as a young woman is killed as a sacrifice during some sort of Satanic ceremony . The men and their RV are spotted and the chase is on . The Satanists will stop at nothing to keep the couples from escaping . - Race with the Devil is an excellent mix of horror and action . While the scenes of overt horror are scarce , there is an undeniable creepiness to the film . Even when you're not sure that the heroes are in danger , you can't escape the feeling of that something is wrong . The evil is almost palatable . The action , on the other hand , is plentiful . The chase scenes are very well done . It's quite a ride . You don't get much more exciting than a 35 ' RV careening down a highway , slamming into a couple of trucks while someone fires a shotgun off the roof . Very nice . - One thing that makes the movie a standout is the acting of the two male leads . Peter Fonda and Warren Oates are both wonderful . Fonda seems to relish the action scenes and handles many of his own stunts like a pro . Oates has become a real favorite of mine . The man was capable of expressing more with his facial expressions than most actors do with pages of dialogue . While the two female leads are underdeveloped , Loretta Swit and Lara Parker give it their all . The supporting cast is headed by R . G . Armstrong in a wonderful performance as the Sheriff with something to hide . - The only negative I see is that much of the movie plays like it was made-for-television . Several scenes end as if they are going to a commercial break . The music is part of the problem . Many scenes end with music cues usually reserved for television .
" Picked up the dagger , ran down the hall , and stabbed the cook ! "	For whatever reason , I have probably seen Clue more times than any movie ever made . I would guess that I've watched it more than 100 times . And I never get tired of it . Obviously , I feel that it holds up rather well through repeat viewings . It's witty and clever . Some of the scenes and dialogue are laugh-out-loud funny . There are far too many moments that stand out in my mind to narrow it down to one favorite , but I'll include this one as an example : - Mrs . White : He was deranged , he was . . . lunatic . He didn't seem to like me very much . He had threatened to kill me in public . - Miss Scarlet : Why would he want to kill you in public ? - Wadsworth : I think she meant he threatened , in public , to kill her . The characters may lack depth and dimension , but all are very well played by a talented ensemble cast . I've read any number of complaints about perceived plot holes , but who cares ? If you're so busy noticing each time a candlestick changes places in a scene or who's holding what weapon , I think you're missing the point . None of it is to be taken seriously and cannot be analyzed as such . I look at these plot holes as part of the plot . They make it all the more fun .
Bravo for Fonda	John Klute ( Donald Sutherland ) is a small town detective who has been sent to New York to find a missing man . Bree Daniels ( Jane Fonda ) is a New York prostitute who may hold the key to the man's whereabouts . If Bree is to help Klute unravel the mystery , he must first protect her from a deranged stalker who seems to always be one step ahead . I've always found it difficult to watch Jane Fonda and not let my personal feelings towards her get in the way of enjoying her work . I had no such difficulties while watching Klute . Fonda brings such life to Bree Daniels that it's easy to forget your watching a movie . It's one of the more convincing pieces of acting I've ever seen . While I've probably not seen all of the great performances from 1971 , it would be difficult for me to imagine anyone deserved the Best Actress Academy Award more than Fonda . Klute is also one of the more smartly written thrillers I've seen . Pakula uses the well written script to create believable characters who face realistic danger around every corner . The atmosphere and tension are almost palpable . There are moments that are as frightening as any horror movie . But Pakula refuses to go too far or over-the-top . I can well imagine that in the hands of a lesser director , Klute might have easily become a cheesy , throw-away slasher . Well done !
Very nice low-budget chiller from Val Lewton	Kiki and Clo-Clo ( I just love these names . ) are rivals in a nightclub act . To upstage Clo-Clo , Kiki's boyfriend arranges for her to enter the club with a black leopard on a leash while Clo-Clo is performing . But things don't go as planned and the leopard escapes . Later that night , a young woman is killed outside her home by a leopard . More deaths of women are blamed on the leopard . But is it really the leopard that's responsible for the deaths or is a maniac using the leopard as a cover to commit murder ? The Leopard Man has an unusual story structure that I find very appealing . Most of the events in the movie and most of the people ( or victims ) we meet occur through the movements of Clo-Clo . As she walks through the streets , she runs into or passes seemingly random persons . We are immediately taken into their world for a brief glimpse of their lives before the inevitable occurs . It's the realization that these people are unknowingly in danger because of a chance meeting with Clo-Clo and they can do nothing about it that creates much of the suspense in The Leopard Man . The Leopard Man features some of the best set-pieces and scenes Val Lewton ever put together . The death of the first girl , Teresa , is the most obvious example . To get home , Teresa must go through a tunnel knowing full well that a leopard has escaped and may be inside ready to pounce . This scene is nothing short of scary . It's one of the most frightening moments from a Lewton movie . Teresa finally reaches home but is unable to get inside the house . Before her mother and brother can get the door open , Teresa is attacked . The camera pans to the floor to show the blood running into the house . It's a very chilling moment and one of the best that Lewton ever made . Most of Lewton's films have a " look " to them that I find very pleasing . In this department , The Leopard Man doesn't disappoint . Everything from the " noirish " look of the city streets to the use of shadows to create atmosphere gives these movies part of their distinctiveness . Lewton couldn't afford fancy special effects or high-priced actors , so he made up for this by creating some of the most visually stunning movies I've seen . In short , The Leopard Man is a real treat to the eye .
A wonderfully unique Hammer offering	I simply do not understand why The Gorgon ( like a lot of the other lesser known Hammer movies ) isn't available on a legitimate Region 1 DVD . It's ridiculous . Admittedly , The Gorgon is an unusual horror movie . The story of a mythical creature able to turn men to stone with just her gaze is not your normal horror fare . And the movie isn't full of marketable blood and jump scares . Instead , The Gorgon is a slow paced , atmospheric chiller that I find terribly entertaining and one of the more unique movies Hammer ever made . The Gorgon has so much going for it that I can't imagine it not being a favorite of any Hammer fan . To begin with , there's always something special about watching Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing working together . Even though their shared screen-time is limited , it's still a treat . The rest of the acting is quite good , especially the conflicted and beautiful Carla played by Barbara Shelley . Shelley really doesn't get near enough credit for her performance in this movie . Beyond the acting , The Gorgon is a movie filled with terrific atmosphere thanks to John Gilling's screenplay and Terence Fisher's direction . There's a real sense of unease running through the movie . The music further adds to the atmosphere . Megara's eerie but beautiful call is memorable long after the movie is over . There's just something mesmerizing about it . The lighting , sets , and cinematography are all some of the best you'll find in a Hammer production . The movie looks far better than you would expect . Finally , even though the special effects seem to always be a focal point of criticism , I quite enjoy the Gorgon's look . What some call cheap and tacky looking , I call fun . It's always a blast for me when Megara makes her entrance . In fact , I've got more of a problem with Christopher Lee's sad looking make-up than I do with the Gorgon's appearance .
" Blame it on the Casbah . "	Pepe le Moko ( Jean Gabin ) is something of a celebrity in the Algerian Casbah he calls home . The locals do what they can to protect Pepe and keep the police off his trail in hopes of winning his favor . But how long can Pepe remain hidden in the maze-like Casbah ? The French police have a plan to use one of his best friends to lure Pepe out of the Casbah and place him under arrest . Complicating matters is a Parisian woman visiting Algiers that Pepe finds himself smitten with . She's different from what he's come to know in Algeria . She makes him dream and long for days of freedom outside the Casbah walls . To begin with , to anyone who recommended Pepe le Moko ? a big fat thanks . It's a great movie that I probably would have never even heard of had it not been for some of the good people at IMDb . As a budding fan of film noir , I was hooked from the minute the movie began . The plot kept my interest throughout . Never did it seem slow . I've only seen Jean Gabin in one other movie ( Touchez pas au grisbi ) , but I'm quickly discovering what a talented actor he was . His Pepe is a very believable character . He plays Pepe with style , feeling , and , when called for , viciousness . Director Julien Duvivier uses the twisted roads and alleyways of the Casbah to create a one of kind setting for his film . I've actually been in a place like this during a visit to Tangiers , and the Casbah in Pepe le Moko gave me that same feeling of a place you would easily get lost in . In many ways , Pepe le Moko is ahead of its time . First , I honestly had no idea that something so seemingly American as film noir could be traced to 1930s French cinema . Many of the American films of the next two decades can surely be traced to Pepe le Moko . Second , much of the subject matter in the film is certainly something an American movie of the 30s would never touch or discuss so openly . Themes of sex and adultery wouldn't be commonplace in American cinema for years to come . And finally , some of the film techniques used by Duvivier give the film the look of something made years later . The camera has a fluidity and style I don't associate with the 30s when so much of what was being made still relied on the old " plant and shoot " technique of the silent era .
One of Lenzi's better Poliziotteschi	Commissioner Betti ( Maurizio Merli ) has been sent to Naples to help clean up the city . Armed robbery , rape , extortion , and murder are everyday occurrences in Naples . Betti soon realizes there are two crime bosses behind most of the mayhem - Capunao ( John Saxon ) and the Commandante ( Barry Sullivan ) . The two are at war and Betti's caught in the middle . Betti is a no nonsense kind of cop who is perfectly comfortable using whatever tactics necessary to get the job done . But how far is Betti willing to go to get his man ? Trying to do a short summary of a movie Violent Naples is almost impossible . The movie is in reality little more than a series of action-packed set-pieces strung together with an all but invisible plot thread . Intricate plot details are hardly the point of a film like Violent Naples . Instead , it's about the action and the pacing . And Lenzi was as good at this as anyone who ever made a Poliziotteschi . Violent Naples moves from fire bombings to beatings to bank hold-ups to gunfights to rape without missing a beat . Lenzi doesn't give you time to catch your breath before your off to the next action set-piece . I was impressed and found memorable the very same moments noted in almost every other review or article written on Violent Naples ? the vicious bowling scene and the amazing camera work of the motorcycle chase scene . As good a moments as I've yet run across in a Poliziotteschi . Along the same lines as Violent Naples ' paper-thin plot , if you're looking for character insight and development , look elsewhere . Merli's Betti is as two dimensional a leading character as you'll find . We know almost nothing of the man . Similarly , we know next to nothing about the baddies played by Saxon and Sullivan . In fact , sitting here writing this , I can't even remember what their disagreement was about . Like I wrote before , details like character motivation are secondary to the action . And honestly , I wouldn't want it any other way .
Excellent B & W Hammer	Scream of Fear aka Taste of Fear ( 1961 ) is a marvelous , unknown ( at least to me ) Hammer film . The story concerns a girl in a wheelchair going to live with her Dad whom she hasn't seen in years . Upon arrival , she meets her stepmother for the first time and is informed that her Dad is away on business . That night , she investigates a strange light in the summer house and discovers here dead father . In her horrified state , she falls into the pool . After she's revived , an investigation of the summer house reveals nothing . As the strange events continue to occur , the local doctor begins to doubt her sanity . But , with the help of the chauffeur , she's determined to get to the bottom of the mystery before she is either killed or driven insane . Anymore of the story would ruin it for anyone who hasn't seen the movie . I've seen some call Scream of Fear " predictable " . While I agree to a certain extent , there are enough twists and turns in the plot to keep most anyone guessing . While I may have seen some of the events coming , I could have never guessed the ending . To me , it was an " edge of the seat " movie from start to finish . The acting is first rate . All four of the major characters are brilliantly played . Susan Strasberg is convincingly fragile as the wheelchair-bound Penny Appleby . Ronald Lewis and Ann Todd are perfect as the chauffeur and stepmother , respectively . And , although all he does is come to dinner and talk psycho mumbo jumbo , Christoper Lee is mysterious and convincing as Dr . Gerrard . Everything else about this film , from the beautiful black & white photography to the creepy score , is perfect . I've really got nothing bad to say .
" I'm grateful to you for burying my body . "	Iv'e seen The Trouble with Harry described as everything from a masterpiece to Hitchcock's worst film . I think the reaction depends on how you go into the movie . If you're expecting a nail-biting suspense thriller like most of Hitchcock's other movies , you'll probably come away disappointed . But if you're more open to the idea of Hitchcock's little experiment in comedy , you just might discover a wonderfully entertaining film . The Trouble with Harry is that Harry's dead ? and some of the local townsfolk aren't sure if they're to blame for Harry's death or not . They quite naturally ( or at least it seems so very natural in the movie ) decide the best course of action is to bury Harry and go on as if nothing ever happened . However , no sooner do they have Harry six-feet under than one or another has a change of heart and out come the shovels and up comes Harry . But wait a minute ? they can't let Harry be found . Back into the hole for Harry ! Bury ? Unbury ? Bury ? Unbury ? it goes on and on . If you've read any of the other comments I've written about movies , you'll soon discover that I'm a fan of what I call the One Word Review . For The Trouble with Harry , that word is delightful . Everything about the movie is delightful . The gorgeous fall Vermont foliage , the witty and well written script , the new-found relationships , Jerry Mathers as Arnie Rogers , Miss Gravely's blueberry muffins , Hitchcock's direction , the joke about the double bed , Bernard Hermann's absolutely perfect score , the body in the bathtub , and a very young Shirley MacLaine , John Forsythe , Mildred Natwick , and Edmund Gwenn ? everything is all so . . . well , delightful . Finally , one thing I want to specifically mention is the dialogue found in The Trouble with Harry . The more I think about certain lines , the funnier they seem to get . A few of my favorites include : ? She's a well preserved woman ? yes , very well preserved , and preserves have to be opened someday ! ? He looked exactly the same when he was alive , only he was vertical . ? Couldn't have had more people here if I'd sold tickets . ? I've never been to a home-made funeral before . I'm glad people that people don't really talk like the characters in The Trouble with Harry . If they did , I would never get anything done because I would be laughing too much .
What's wrong with calling someone a " heathen monkey " ?	In " Pursuit of the Po-Ho " , Dr . Quest receives an urgent message that a friend of his has been kidnapped by a group of natives known as the Po-Ho . But almost as soon as Dr . Quest and the rest of the family arrive in the jungle , Dr . Quest is also kidnapped . It's up to Race and the boys to save Dr . Quest and his friend . But how ? Maybe they can trick the natives into believing that Race is the water god , Aquesio . Until I sat down to write this , I never realized " Pursuit of the Po-Ho " was such a controversial episode . I think it's a real shame that Warner Bros . appears to have fallen in line with the thought police and edited their DVD release to eliminate the names Race calls the natives . I think calling the Po-Ho " savages " and " heathen monkeys " is pretty mild considering they've kidnapped and plan to kill ( and most likely eat ) Dr . Quest . I would have thought he would have done far worse than that . Besides that , I grew up watching this episode unedited . I don't think I've suffered any long lasting negative effects of the experience . It seems to me that people are just too sensitive today . As for the episode itself , it's a good one . Lots of tension ? well , at least as much tension as you can drum-up in a 22 minute cartoon . The Po-Ho are very effective and there's a real sense of danger every time they make an on-screen appearance . When I was younger , they absolutely terrified me . Evan at that age , I understood what they were about to do to Dr . Quest . And the sight of Race covered in berry juice , yelling at the Po-Ho ? that's awesome . Finally , one thing I noticed while re-watching this episode is that the show should have been called Race Bannon ? not Jonny Quest . More often than not , Race is the real star .
" The steel beast is dead peasants ! I've set you all free ! "	I'll make this quick as Enchanted has already been discussed to death on IMDb . And quite honestly , I've got nothing much new to add . But I did want to post a comment and add my voice to those praising this movie . I am absolute stunned at how much I enjoyed Enchanted . It's just that ? enchanting . And it may be the best thing Disney ( without Pixar ) has done in years . I love the way Disney uses Enchanted to poke fun at itself ? something that quite honestly I didn't thing they would ever do . The song in the park is an incredibly inspired moment that works on two levels ? one as an entertaining throw back to a time when musicals were acceptable forms of entertainment ? and two as a spoof of all of those musicals . Finally , the casting couldn't have been better . I didn't know who Amy Adams was before I watched Enchanted , but she is awesome and plays the part of a Disney princess to perfection . It's just a fantastic movie !
Informative and Entertaining	The original Planet of the Apes has always been one of my favorite movies . This two-hour making-of , behind-the-scenes documentary is a must for any fan of the movie . I've seen it three times now and I never get tired of the stories of the make-up , casting decisions , and screenplay rewrites . It's truly fascinating . Considering that Planet of the Apes was made in 1968 , I'm always amazed that there was so much film footage available in 1998 for this documentary . My favorite clips have to be those of the make-up transformations of the cast . Say what you will about the man , but Roddy McDowall has always been one of my favorite actors . He was a solid and natural choice to narrate this film and I'm glad he agreed to do it . Other than Beneath the Planet of the Apes , he was there and offers good insights into how these movies were made .
A very nice piece of 1960s low-budget British sci-fi / horror	What fun ! I hope the over-abundance of negative reviews found around the internet don't dissuade anyone from checking out this very nice piece of 1960s low-budget British sci-fi / horror . The Earth Dies Screaming deserves to be seen . The plot is not dissimilar to that found in both The Last Man on Earth and The Omega Man except that here we have a band of survivors and not a solitary individual . With the rest of humanity seemingly wiped out by an alien gas attack , a handful of varied individuals come together to seek safety in numbers . To make some sense of their situation and to better their condition , our heroes will have to avoid the alien robots and their zombie slaves ? not to mention quarrels within their own ranks . The Earth Dies Screaming has a lot going for it and at the top of the list is Terence Fisher . The man who directed some of the best that British horror has to offer was more than capable of adding atmosphere , tension , and a sense of isolation necessary for the success of this movie . Unlike some of his vividly colorful Hammer films , The Earth Dies Screaming was shot in stark but beautiful B & W . I suppose it's fitting given the nature of the movie's plot . The music by Elisabeth Lutyens is likewise stark but beautiful and compliments the images on the screen perfectly . The acting is solid . The cast may not be filled with A-list British horror stars , but everyone involved gives a good accounting of themselves . Dennis Price gives a particularly good performance as the selfish , self-centered character out for only himself . Finally , I love the ending . Some may argue that The Earth Dies Screaming doesn't really have an ending , but I would disagree . Sure , it's ambiguous , but that's as it should be . The characters ' futures are just that ? ambiguous .
Bava's grittier side	I have now seen all but a couple of Mario Bava's films . I've always enjoyed the way Bava seemed to reinvent himself with each movie . But Rabid Dogs represents even more of a departure from the norm for Bava . It's more akin to something Sam Peckinpah might have made than it is to such seemingly varied films as the Gothic nightmare of Black Sunday or the Technicolor dream of Hercules in the Haunted World or the campy fun of Danger Diabolik . Rabid Dogs is gritty and brutal and rarely lets up on the tension . The story involves three small-time robbers / killers who think that with their latest job they've hit the big time . During their escape , they pick up a frightened woman who will become the target of their abuse and an older man with a very sick child . Together , these six people will go on a nihilistic journey with only death waiting at the end . The confined set ( 90 % of Rabid Dogs takes place inside a car ) adds immensely to the psychological tension and physical threat these three desperate men represent . There is no place for the captives to go to escape the overbearing fear they face . Bava films this small space with some remarkable camera angels that build on the hot , claustrophobic feel of the movie . Gone are the colored gels and dream-like lighting Bava seemed so fond of in his earlier movies . Instead , Rabid Dogs is filmed in such a realistic manner that you can almost feel the sweat , grim , and dirt that comes from being trapped in such small space . Finally , even though I was able to predict the movie's outcome in some detail , it's quite shocking to watch as the final twist unfolds . If you're a Bava fan , Rabid Dogs may not be the kind of movie to which you're accustomed to seeing , but it's one that shouldn't be passed-up .
" Necessity mother of invention , but sometimes step-mother of deception . "	After many years ' absence , Allen Colby is on his way home to reclaim his inheritance . But there seems to be someone who wants to make sure he doesn't make it . There are plenty of suspects ? Aunt Henrietta Lowell and the rest of the extended family who have grown accustomed to living off the money , Professor Bowen and Carlotta the medium who stand to benefit greatly from the generosity of Henrietta Lowell , the caretaker Ulrich who blames Colby for his daughter's death , and the family's lawyer Warren Phelps who has enjoyed administering the family's estate . Any one of these people could have it in for Colby . When Colby's lifeless body turns up at a sance , its up to Charlie Chan to find the killer . I'm not sure how other Chan fans feel about Charlie Chan's Secret , but for me , it's a real winner . It's got everything that I could ask for in one of these movies ? Warner Oland at the top of his game , atmosphere , a house full of suspects , mediums and sances , an old house with secret passages , and on and on it goes . What fun ! Sure , if you sit and think about the plot too hard , it starts to fall apart . But that's not the way to watch a movie like Charlie Chan's Secret . Just turn your mind off and let it entertain . For me , it's one of the better films in the series . There are a number of special things or moments or people in Charlie Chan's Secret that I could discuss , but I'll limit this to mentioning Herbert Mundin who plays Baxter , the butler . With no Number 1 son in sight , Mundin essentially plays the role usually reserved for Keye Luke in these early Chan films . And he does so masterfully . His comic bumbling is the perfect counter to the straight-laced Oland . One scene I especially enjoy is when Mundin must cross in front of a window through which a bullet has just passed . It's a small moment , but it's played to perfection . It's a nice performance from a talented actor .
Beware of budget DVDs	After serving 10 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit , Gary Hamilton ( Klaus Kinski ) is released . Hamilton has had 10 long years to plot his revenge and he intends to get it . His quarry , a man named Acombar ( Peter Carsten ) , has assembled something of an army to help protect him and his family . But Hamilton appears to have something on his side ? God . Hamilton rides into town just ahead of the wind , dust , and noise of a tornado . It's quite an entrance ! And God Said to Cain is a solid Spaghetti Western ( SW ) from often underrated Italian director Antonio Margheriti . With this movie , Margheriti put together one terribly effective SW . A lot of SWs include some sort of light-hearted , comedic moments . That's not the case with And God Said to Cain . It's as serious and dark as any SW I've seen . Margheriti doesn't allow a single moment of levity . Normally relegated to playing the heavy , Klaus Kinski gets a rare opportunity to play the lead . And he does a good job with it . He plays Hamilton as a man with a single-minded focus ? get revenge . Before we as an audience even know who Hamilton is or what he's up to , he's killing people on a dark , stormy night . The action and shootouts are entertaining , the supporting cast is solid , the music is good , and the sets and locations fit the film nicely . What more can you ask for in a SW ? The only negative regarding my experience with And God Said to Cain actually has nothing to do the movie , but concerns the budget label DVD I watched . What a terrible transfer ! Much of the movie is set at night and it was often very difficult to tell what was happening . Who knows ? I might have rated the movie higher had I not missed about a fourth of the action . So be warned ? in this case you get what you pay for .
" Welcome , brothers ! "	I am by no means an expert on the 19 or so Terence Hill / Bud Spencer films . But of the handful I have been able to see , They Call Me Trinity just might be my favorite . I distinctly remember watching this movie over 30 years ago and thinking it was one of funniest , most enjoyable movies I had ever seen . Re-watching it last night , I realized that , although my opinion isn't quite as high as it once was , I still enjoyed They Call Me Trinity immensely . It's not perfect , but it sure it fun . Hill and Spencer play off each other as well as any of the better known Hollywood duos . They complement each other in both style and appearance . There are a few moments that had me laughing out loud . Their first meeting with the Mexican bandits while unintentionally disguised as Mormons is one of these moments . Hill also has some particularly funny scenes on his own . One that I remembered from my first viewing three decades ago was the scene where Hill eats the entire plate of beans . Good stuff ! And who doesn't get a kick out of the dust-covered Hill being pulled along behind his horse . It's a classic image right up there with Django dragging the coffin through the mud . There's just something about both of these scenes that I find very funny . But what I really enjoy the most is the way They Call Me Trinity makes fun of some of the better known Spaghetti Western clichs . There are several examples I could use , but I'll just cite one . In most Spaghetti Westerns , the main character is usually an expert shot . So expert , in fact , that they almost never miss . Look at Lee Van Cleef in Sabata or Clint Eastwood in The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly for example . Van Cleef's Sabata is able to his any target at any distance and Eastwood's Blondie has no problem hitting the rope about to hang Tuco . Trinity takes this already exaggerated ability to the absurd . As seen in the one of the bar fights , Trinity can hit targets behind his back - without looking . If you're a fan of these movies , you'll enjoy They Call Me Trinity's poke at Spaghetti Western conventions .
Almost ruined by the final 5 minutes	- Kubrick's The Killing is very nearly a perfect movie . The story centers around the daylight robbery of $2 million from a racetrack . A varied group of five men are brought together to plan and execute the hold-up . Kubrick's decision to tell the story in a non-linear fashion was a good one . The viewers attention is focused on each part of the hold-up and how each part relates to the whole . The detail is amazing . Through different eyes and ears , we see and hear the 7th race begin at least four different times . - The heist itself is a thing of beauty . Every part fits perfectly into place . There are very few lucky coincidences ( which always angers me in a heist movie ) necessary for the hold-up to work . The plan goes like clockwork . My favorite part had to be the bar fight scene between wrestler Kola Kwarini and fifteen police officers . It might seem like a silly thing , but it was absolutely necessary to divert the attention of track security . - The acting is great . Sterling Hayden is outstanding as the schedule obsessed head of the group . Elisha Cook plays Elisha Cook . If you're a fan of Cook from other films , you'll like him here . Marie Windsor is especially conniving as the cheating wife who is out for herself . And I always enjoy seeing Jay C . Flippin . - I started by saying that The Killing is nearly a perfect movie . But it's not perfect . I was ready to rate The Killing a until the final five minutes . The ending is a clich ridden disaster . Surely Kubrick could have come up with something better than having a poodle running onto the runway . It's hard to believe that a simple moment like that almost ruined the movie for me .
" Comfortable " Television	I am so excited that Lovejoy has finally come to DVD . I used to love the show , but hadn't seen an episode since the A & E network stopped running it some years ago . So as I put the first DVD in the player , I was ready for a huge letdown . But to my surprise and delight , the show is just as good as I remember ? a good mix of mystery , action , and comedy with some interesting , fun characters and just a dash of history . Lovejoy is old-world British charm meets modern day realities and cynicism . Watching Lovejoy is akin to wearing an old pair of shoes or a favorite sweater ? it's comfortable . It's always been the kind of television that works best when I curl up on the couch late at night . And making the show so special and enjoyable is Ian McShane . I've yet to see him in Deadwood , so I am most familiar with McShane in this role . And what a pleasure to watch he is . He makes Lovejoy a carefree , smart , sly , resourceful character not above doing something underhanded especially if it will help out a friend . He's the kind of guy you want on your side . He is ably assisted by a terrific supporting cast that includes Dudley Sutton as Tinker Dill , Chris Jury as Eric Catchpole , and Phyllis Logan as Lady Jane Felsham . Together , they're wonderful . While the easygoing style and subject matter of Lovejoy may not appeal to those wanting a thrill-a-minute and MTV style editing , it suits me perfectly . I can't wait for Season 2 !
Loved It	- I was recently given the House of 1000 Corpses DVD as a gift . I had heard such bad things about it that I had been afraid to buy it myself . I just knew I wasn't going to enjoy it . Now , I wish I would have seen it sooner . I watch movies for the sake of entertainment . And if it entertains me , then art , technical merit , or any other thing people like to complain about be damned . Bottom line - House of 1000 Corpses is one of the most entertaining new movies I've seen . I found myself playing along with Rob Zombie to spot all of the movie's influences . A lot of reviews I've read complain that Zombie " ripped " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and other movies . Personally , I don't think " ripped " is the right word . I see it as Zombie's way of paying a loving tribute to the movies he enjoys . - There's nothing at all original about the plot . Two couples get lost in the backwoods and are set upon by a crazed family of killers . Sound familiar ? But what makes this movie different from many of the others that have tried this same plot are the visuals and the characters . Zombie has filled every frame of this picture with some of the most gruesome eye-candy imaginable . I wanted to stop the movie every five minutes just to take it all in . Everything from the vintage t-shirts worn by Captain Spaulding to the mobile of shoes is a real joy to behold . Zombie must be a nut for detail . - As for the characters ( and here , I'm referring to the killers ) , each is so over-the-top that I couldn't wait to see what they would do next . Much of this comes form Zombie's casting choices . Sig Haig , Bill Moseley , Karen Black , and Sheri Moon play their demented characters to perfection . Each is an absolute " scene stealer " , often within the same scene . It's such a pleasure to watch people having this much fun making a movie . - The movie is not without its problems . As previously mentioned , the plot is all but non-existent . Many of the underground scenes toward the end of the movie were not necessary to me . Also , some of Zombie's editing style is not to my taste . But , these things are minor to my overall enjoyment of the movie .
So very British	- Charlie Croker ( Michael Caine ) has been out of prison for less than five minutes when he begins planning his next heist . This one involves robbing an armored car filled with gold in the streets of Turin , Italy . But , it's not just the police that Croker and Crew must contend with . The Mafia doesn't want some outsider to come into their country and steal gold out from under their noses either . The job becomes similar to the football match the Crew uses as a cover - it's about national pride . - It's amazing that I had never seen this movie before . I understand that in Britain , it's considered nothing short of a national treasure . After watching , I can certainly see why . Everything about The Italian Job just screams Britannia - the Minis , the song with lyrics that are indecipherable to most Americans , Michael Caine , sensibilities , etc . I don't think that the colors selected for the Minis was an accident . About half way through , I felt like stopping the movie to make tea . - The actual theft of the gold is fairly unremarkable . But the chase afterwards is where a lot of the fun in this movies lays . The Minis are characters in their own right . The final third of the movie is the most amazing commercial for an automobile I've ever seen . We see the Minis go down stairs , jump through the air , race across the roofs of buildings , splash through water , swoosh through tunnels , and ( if you watch the deleted scenes on the Region 1 DVD ) waltz on ice . Sometimes these extended car chase scenes can go on too long for their own good . Not here . I was never bored of watching the Minis race around Turin . - I loved the ending . It is left wide open for you , the viewer , to decide just what happens next . Too many newer movies seem to feel the need to explain everything in the most minute detail . It's nice to use your imagination for a change . - Finally , the music is another highlight of the movie . It seems a little odd that a movie I have described being very British should have the very American Quincy Jones responsible for the score . I defy anyone to watch The Italian Job and not have Getta Bloomin ' Move On ! stuck in your head for days .
" I'll come back and take this grenade and shove it down your throat and pull the pin ! "	What an amazing movie ! I honestly had no idea what to expect going into Attack . With a name like that , I expected wall-to-wall combat action ( albeit Hollywood style combat action ) . What I wasn't expecting was a deep , meaningful morality play with some of the best acting I've seen in a while . That's not to say there aren't action sequences in Attack , but they are not the focus . The action set-pieces merely exist to set up the drama . And what drama it is ! Attack features a well-written , intelligent script , interesting characters , and a little insight into the effects of war . Jack Palance is quite simply brilliant as Lt . Joe Costa , the battle hardened soldier who's seen more than his share of combat . He's protective of the men he commands and , in return , they respect him for that . I don't think I've ever seen Palance in a more convincing , believable role . Lt . Costa is the very image of the American G . I . in WWII . Eddie Albert is surprisingly just as good as Palance as the weak Capt . Erskine Cooney . He epitomizes everything that Lt . Costa hates . He's indecisive , puts his men into harms way , and worst of all , he's yellow . Albert's plays Capt . Cooney as a man one step away from a nervous breakdown . The entire supporting cast is excellent with standout performances from the entire cast . I may not have known much about Attack going in , but it's a new favorite I look forward to revisiting from time-to-time .
Unique and Creepy	- A young woman stumbles upon an abandoned monastery and thinks it might make a good place to spend the night . She settles herself in beside a fireplace and gets ready for bed . But a strange noise keeps her from sleeping . Unknown to her , the graves in the monastery's courtyard are rumbling . The Templars have risen from their long sleep to find another blood sacrifice . Can the girl escape from the Tombs of the Blind Dead ? - What a wonderful , one of a kind film with some genuine scares . Very few horror movies can claim to have truly unique plots and characters . Horror is a genre that feeds off itself and constantly recycles ideas . That's one of the things that makes Tombs of the Blind Dead such an interesting and refreshing movie . De Ossorio created a new mythos for his film . De Ossorio's zombie like creatures , the Templars , come complete with a fascinating backstory - Crusaders from the 13th Century who were put to death for practicing black magic , their eyes plucked from their sockets by birds . It would have been very easy for the movie to follow the zombie mold set out by Romero in Night of the Living Dead . But the Templars are not the mindless , stumbling brand of zombie . Instead , they move , hunt , and kill in an organized fashion . It means the Templars are even more deadly than your average zombie . - Tombs of the Blind Dead has so much going for it . The movie just drips with atmosphere . It's aided by a wonderful soundtrack featuring haunting music and an assortment of odd , creepy sounds . The crumbling monastery has to be one of the best sets I've ever seen . I can't imagine spending the night in this place . There are some places that look spooky in the daylight and this is one of them . The eyeless Templars are some of the most frightening creatures I've ever seen . They say the eyes are the windows to the soul - so what does that say if your eyes have been plucked out . And , the ending is marvelously down-beat . I really wasn't expected such an apocalyptic finish . - Oh , it's not perfect . There are a few things that bug me . For example , where do the Templars get their horses ? Is there a horse graveyard somewhere ? Also , the whole bit where the dead girl comes back to life . It's wonderfully creepy , but it feels like padding . But these things are minor in comparison with everything that works in Tombs of the Blind Dead .
It might be Martino's best	- This is a very entertaining giallo that I enjoy more each time I watch it . Oliviero ( Luigi Pistilli ) has three hobbies - drinking , sleeping around , and abusing his wife . When his lover is murdered while waiting to meet Oliviero , the police naturally suspect him . So , when his maid is found murdered inside his house , Oliviero knows he's in trouble . The couple's niece , Floriana ( Edwige Fenech ) shows up and things really start to heat up . Through manipulation , seduction , and violence , she pits the couple against each other to get what she wants . - One of the strongest elements in Your Vice is a Locked Door and Only I Have the Key ( Your Vice for short ) is the acting . The three leads I've already mentioned , along with Ivan Rassimov , represent one of the strongest casts assembled for a giallo . Each is magnificent . - The story in Your Vice is also superb . There are enough twist and turns along the way to keep anyone guessing . Just when your sure you've gotten it all figured out , Martino throws another wrinkle into the story . I've read that at least part of the story is derived from Poe's The Black Cat . I'll be honest , I've never read the story so I have no way of knowing how faithful it is . - This is one movie that should definitely get an official DVD release . Until then , I'm just happy to have my " unofficial " copy .
One of the best	- Edwige Fenech is Jane Harrison , a woman recovering from a car accident . Whether real or imaginary , she gets the idea that someone is stalking her and would like to see her dead . She does what any sane person suffering from psychological trauma would do , she turns to a bizarre Satanic cult for help . Now her problems really start . Their idea of help is to have her " kill " her best friend and rape her repeatedly . Fenech and George Hilton are as good together as ever . Hilton doesn't have much to do , but he's good when he's on screen . The cult scenes and dream sequences are totally over-the-top , but they work . The movie also features one of the most memorable scores I've heard . This is one of the best gialli that I've seen and should appeal to fans of the genre .
I miss Hammer's style of movie making	This is a wonderful documentary for any fan of Hammer . It's all here ? from the rise of Hammer as the King of Gothic Horror with The Curse of Frankenstein to the tragic downfall in the mid-70s . I have seen dozens of Hammer films over the years and to hear the stories about these films from the people who were there is an absolute joy . Even though the film is narrated by Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing , the best stories are from Hammer directors like Roy Ward Baker and Val Guest and by Hammer writers like Jimmy Sangster and by Hammer producers like Michael Carreras . And they don't hold back . I appreciated their honesty , especially that of Carreras , concerning the demise of Hammer . My only complaint would be with the film clips selected for use in Flesh and Blood . Little effort appears to have been made to clean-up or restore the clips . The quality is lacking at best .
" They are in danger , all of them , from their own actions . "	The Abominable Snowman treats its subject matter with the kind of respect usually reserved for something far more serious than a low-budget film about the mythical Yeti . It would have been easy to allow the whole production to sink to the level of exploitation , but it never does . The horror is subdued and really only surfaces in the final act . The movie is not without its creepy moments as the men fear for their lives in an alien landscape of ice and mountains . The remainder of the intelligent script focuses on the relationship between the scientist and the showman and asks the question " Who is the real monster ? " The Abominable Snowman is an unusually subdued movie from The Studio that Dripped Blood . Released the same year as The Curse of Frankenstein and a year before Horror of Dracula , The Abominable Snowman lacks the garish colors and the bright red blood that helped to make Hammer so famous . It may lack what I call the Hammer Color , but it's one of the best looking Hammer films I've seen . It was filmed in beautiful black and white and the cinematography is stunning . The stage-bound sets are some of the best I've seen . When combined , these elements create the perfect , frigid look and setting for The Abominable Snowman . Director Val Guest made the wise decision to keep the Yeti off-screen as much as possible with only a glimpse or two in the shadows . It would have been difficult , given the budgetary constraints , to create realistic looking Yeti that could have withstood too much on-screen scrutiny . Anymore screen-time and the Yeti would have probably come off as cheesy as the title character in Hammer's The Gorgon . And I can't say enough about the acting . Everyone involved is excellent . You can always count on Peter Cushing to deliver the goods and he's at the top of his game in this film . It's a shame that his genius isn't more well known outside of horror circles . Forrest Tucker makes a great foil for Cushing . The two men make the perfect " Odd Couple " . The rest of the cast is equally believable and more than up to the challenge .
A gem I'm glad to have discovered	Luca is Martino's imaginary friend . Martino talks to Luca , plays with Luca , and insists the family set a place at the table for Luca . Martino's obsession with Luca seems unhealthy and troubling to his parents . Luca happens to be the name they were planning to give to their child who died before being born . How could Martino possibly know about the miscarriage ? The parents call on specialists to help Martino forget about his imaginary friend with disastrous results . Maybe Luca isn't so imaginary after all . A Whisper in the Dark is one of those relatively unknown , subtle , beautifully filmed , and , for the most part , well acted films with a haunting finale that it's always a joy for me to discover . Unknown ? I don't think I had ever heard of it until NoShame announced their DVD release . Subtle ? Don't expect a lot of in-your-face horror . This movie takes its time delivering the chills . Those who have seen the film will understand it when I use the " kissing game " as a perfect example of subtle , yet effective horror . Beautifully filmed ? The Venetian locations are simply stunning . Well acted ? With two notable exceptions , the acting in A Whisper in the Dark is very good . Normally , children and horror do not mix very well . The kids in this movie are perfect without being too cute or too annoying . Most of the rest of the cast is fine with Nathalie Delon being the standout as the children's mother . Haunting finale ? The movie has one of those ambiguous endings that I just love wrapping my mind around . My biggest complaint comes from the performances of two of the movies main actors ? Joseph Cotten and John Phillip Law . Why is Cotten even in this movie ? He seems so out of place even with the little screen time he has . Normally , I enjoy his work , but not here . As for Law , I've read other reviews of people praising his work in A Whisper in the Dark . Apparently , they saw something I completely missed . I thought he was terrible . Finally , a word about NoShames DVD . I've come to expect nothing but the best from NoShame and their treatment of A Whisper in the Dark does not disappoint . The transfer looks great . The special features , although modest , are also nice . It's definitely worth a purchase for fans of Italian horror .
" I'll rise but I refuse to shine ! "	" Been There , Done That " is the Xena take on the movie Groundhog Day . Unbeknownst to her companions , Gabrielle and Joxer , Xena is reliving the same day over and over until she manages to get things right . In this case , getting things right includes stopping the local townspeople from killing Gabrielle and / or Joxer who just happen to be caught in the middle of a feud between competing families . To accomplish this , Xena must discover the root cause of the feud and intervene before things get out of hand . As with Groundhog Day , the repeating day concept presents several opportunities for humor and , fortunately , the Xena writers didn't miss any of them . The funniest bit for me was waiting to see how Xena would handle Gabrielle and Joxer each morning to keep them safe and out of trouble . The sight of the pair bound and gagged with looks of outright astonishment on their faces is laugh-out-loud funny . The entire episode is very nicely done . I may have missed " Been There , Done That " when the series first aired , but it has now become one of my all-time favorite Xena episodes . Good stuff !
Whodunnit ?	" Takes One to Know One " is the kind of episode that epitomizes what I love about Xena . Seemingly never satisfied and not wanting things to get state , the creative team behind Xena was always ready to take a chance . Whether it was the action , drama , romance , comedy , musicals , fairy tales , or whatever ? Rob Tapert and Company weren't afraid to take Xena and Gabrielle on any journey . As a fan , it's awesome ! With " Takes One to Know One " , Xena is thrust into another favorite genre of mine ? the old , dark house mystery . The episode successfully melds the action of the show with mystery and comedy elements . The solution to the mystery is pretty far-fetched but a lot of fun to watch . The end result is one of those episodes I can watch over and over again . " Takes One to Know One " is primarily played for laughs . And Bruce Campbell and Ted Raimi steal almost every scene in which they appear - especially those scenes that they are in together . It's easy to tell they're old friends who are used to playing off each other . You just get the feeling , however , that the best and funniest stuff was probably left on the cutting room floor .
Milian is Awesome	- Tomas Milian is Rambo - a biker who arrives in Milan right in the middle of a war between two crime families . When his brother , a member of a kidnap investigation team , is killed , Rambo seeks revenge . He pits the two families against each other in hopes that they will destroy themselves so he can free the young boy being held for ransom . - Syndicate Sadists was a blind purchase for me and I couldn't be more thrilled . This marks one of my first forays into the Italian sub-genre known as Polizia ( or whatever the correct word is ) . And , I must say that I'm thrilled to have discovered these movies . If some of the others that I have on order ( Contraband and Revolver ) are half as good , I'll be delighted . - I always have a good time watching Tomas Milian . He may come across as a conceited jerk in some of his interviews , but he has good reason . He never fails to entertain . His character , Rambo ( please note that this movie was made long before First Blood ) , is one of my favorites . He's tough , compassionate , and mysterious . - The action and gunplay are great . Between the gun fights and chase scenes , there is plenty of action to go around . One of my favorite scenes in the movie was the relatively calm showdown at the end between Rambo and the head of one of the families . Any movie that puts Milian and the scene-chewing Joseph Cotton together is a Euro-film lover's wet dream . - If the brief description of the plot sounds familiar , don't be surprised . Once the movie got rolling , I said to myself on a number of occasions that it reminded me of A Fistful of Dollars . Imagine my surprise when my notion was confirmed while watching the interview with Lenzi on the DVD . He freely admitted that the story was inspired by Leone's film .
A very pleasant surprise from Blake Edwards	Before watching Experiment in Terror , like most people , I associated Blake Edwards with films like The Pink Panther , Breakfast at Tiffany's , and S . O . B . And while those are all fine films , they share a common thread in that they are all fairly " light " entertainment . That's not the case with Edwards ' Experiment in Terror . In contrast to the other films I've mentioned , Experiment in Terror is an entertaining thriller with some nice , tense moments and at least one " edge of your seat " scene . The whole thing was a very unexpected surprise . The opening scene is amazing . A woman arrives home at night and parks in her garage . As she gets out of her car , the garage door closes on its own ( remember , this was before garage door openers ) . As frightened as the woman initially appears , its nothing compared to what happens next . Out of the dark , a pair of hands grabs her from behind . A threatening voice tells her that she is being watched and followed and if she doesn't do as instructed , she and her sister will be killed . The voice tells her that she is to rob a bank . She's further instructed not to contact the police as that will mean a certain death . In addition to the moments such as I've described , the movie has a noirish quality to it that I thoroughly enjoyed . Experiment in Terror , for lack of a real description , looks great . Filmed in black and white , it's a throwback of sorts to the thrillers of the previous decade . Edwards ' direction is spot on and he takes full advantage of most of the sets , lighting , and cast at his disposal . Technically , the film is near flawless . All of the actors do a more than adequate job with their performances . Overall , it's a quality little thriller that deserves a wider audience . However good or much I enjoyed Experiment in Terror , it does have one glaring weakness . The film runs a little long and there are several scenes and subplots that could have been edited out altogether without hurting the plot . The best examples I can think of are the scenes dealing with the Asian woman and her sick son . While these scenes don't necessarily feel like padding , the film would have been just as good and a little tighter without them .
One of the best of the series	While in route to San Francisco , Chan's friend Paul Essex dies of an apparent suicide . The only clue is a threatening note from someone calling himself the Zodiac . Chan soon discovers that the Zodiac is a successful mystic . Together with a would-be psychic-buster and magician named Rhadini ( Cesar Romero ) , Chan sets out to discover the source of the Zodiac's mysticism and unmask a killer . I thought I had seen the best of the Charlie Chan series . Man , was I ever wrong . After a first viewing , Charlie Chan at Treasure Island has become one of my very favorite Chan films . It's not just one of Toler's best , it's one of the three or four best entries in the entire series . It's got everything a fan could ask for ? an interesting plot , a larger than life villain , solid acting , compelling characters , real suspense , comic relief that's actually funny , and some of the best writing I've seen in a Chan movie . The final reveal is also one of the best in the series . It's not the usual drawing room gathering of the suspects ( which I usually prefer ) , but a drawn out , tension filled scene in a theater full of people . And speaking of tension , Chan's first meeting with the Zodiac is amazing , if not a bit frightening . Charlie Chan at Treasure Island also benefits from a strong supporting cast . Cesar Romero , Douglas Fowley , Pauline Moore , and , personal favorite , Douglass Dumbrille add considerably to the film . Overall , this is one Charlie Chan film that I'm very much look forward to revisiting ? and soon .
" Bob's your uncle . "	I didn't realize that Frenzy was so divisive among Hitchcock fans . As with the last Hitchcock movie I watched , The Trouble with Harry , Frenzy seems to have more than its fair share of critics . The criticism of both movies seems to derive from a similar source ? Hitch deviated from what people expected . I'm not sure why people want to see the same movie over and over , but if you read the negative user comments on IMDb , you'll get that impression . What's wrong with shifting gears and making a comedy like The Trouble with Harry ? And what's wrong with turning up the violence and making a movie like Frenzy ? In each case , I appreciate what Hitchcock was trying to do and thoroughly enjoyed both movies . Frenzy is essentially a " Wrong Man " type movie that Hitch visited several times throughout his career . You know , an innocent man is accused of a crime and spends the rest of the movie on the run from the police trying to prove he's not guilty . In this case , Richard Blaney ( Jon Finch ) , a down on his luck and out of work bartender , is accused of violently raping a series of women before using his necktie to strangle them . Through some really bad luck , the case of circumstantial evidence against Blaney grows to the point that he becomes the only suspect . Tried and convicted , Blaney vows revenge against the man he knows to be guilty . I don't know that I would call Frenzy Hitchcock's best movie as some have , but it is a very entertaining thriller . It's an odd but satisfying mix of the most violent images ( the first rape and murder are difficult to watch ) and some of the darkest , funniest comedy ( the potato truck or the dinner scenes for example ) that Hitch ever made . Hitch proves his genius by masterfully balancing the two ? violence and comedy . And if you weren't already convinced of his reputation as a director , Hitchcock throws in a couple of very nice tracking shots , a clever use of sound , and a few other tricks that I won't begin to attempt to describe ( just watch the movie ) for good measure . Hitch also shows his genius through some of his casting choices . Other than Finch in the lead ( he's just not a very sympathetic figure to me ) , the rest of the actors are incredibly strong . Barry Foster gives one of the more memorable performances I've seen recently . He's just so creepy . In fact , all of the supporting players , from the prim Monica Barling played by Jean March to the hysterical Vivian Merchant as a would-be gourmet chef , are perfect . And when you add the nice location shots and an interesting , well written script ( have the words " you're my type of woman " ever been so menacing ) to the direction and acting , Frenzy becomes a very worthy and memorable entry in Hitchcock's filmography .
" I drink to you , and to the American Army . "	Hell is for Heroes is the story of a squad of six men who have been asked to hold a line usually occupied by an entire company . It's as gritty and realistic as you'll find in an older black and white WWII movie . It's not filled with sentimentality or overly patriotic speeches or soldiers on leave and in love . It's about combat and action . It's claustrophobic , dirty , and frightening . The men in this movie are only concerned with one thing ? getting out alive . Steve McQueen is terrific as the flawed but hard-nosed solider more at home on the front line killing Nazis than he is any place else . He doesn't speak much , but McQueen expresses more with those eyes than most actors could with a page of dialogue . But Hell is for Heroes is much more than a vehicle for McQueen . He is surrounded by a very able cast . James Coburn ( one of my favorites ) , Bobby Darin , Mike Kellin , and the rest of the cast turn in some outstanding performances . And Bob Newhart shines as the film's comic relief . His shtick is hilarious . Newhart literally steals every scene in which he appears . As good as the action in Hell is for Heroes is , it's these " men " that make the film memorable and outstanding for me . My lone complaint comes near the end of Hell is for Heroes . As McQueen makes the second effort to blow-up the German bunker , why don't the Germans fire at him ? I mean they've mowed down everything else in front of them . So why do the Nazis allow this shot-up , dying G . I . the chance to stagger up to their position , pick up the unexploded charge , and fall into their bunker ? It just doesn't make much sense to me .
Moving and Creepy	Dark Water is a truly unique film in that it worked on two different levels with me . First , it worked as a horror movie . No , it's not pee-your-pants scary with buckets of blood . Instead it's just plain old creepy with lots of spooky atmosphere . Even though much of the horror lurks at the periphery , it's a constant , definite presence . And when the horror does spill into the characters everyday lives , it's very effective . Who would have thought that a little girl's Kimiko bag could be so eerie ? Second , Dark Water works as a drama . I bought the pain of the mother fighting to keep her child . And I felt the joy as the two played together . And in the end , when the mother realizes what she must do to save her child , I felt the heartbreak of both characters . The whole thing works because of some great acting . Hitomi Kuroki gives a remarkable performance as the mother . I believed and felt everything she was going through . Most of the Asian films I have seen recently have had good acting , but Kuroki's performance stands above the rest . As for the little girl , she's not the annoying child I'm so used to seeing in films like this . She seems real . It's a nice job by such a young person . My rating would be higher if it weren't for the predictable nature of what happened to the missing Mitsuko . It's should be apparent to anyone ( other than the characters in Dark Water ) where the child is and how she died . Still , it's a remarkable ride to an inevitable discovery .
" Yeah . I killed my mama . "	Movies like Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer really test my assertion that I base my ratings and opinions more on entertainment value than anything else . Was I entertained by Henry ? Well , not if you're using the traditional definition of the word . I can't imagine that anyone would find the all too realistic handling of the subject matter " entertaining " . There's a sense of real menace and violence just under the surface of every scene . Henry doesn't come across like a normal Hollywood horror movie where everything feels like fantasy and you know as soon as the lights come on it's over . The horror in Henry goes on long after the movie ends . I generally watch movies for escapist entertainment ? and you won't find that here . Watching Henry and Otis go about there daily life , including the butchering of innocent , unknown victims , is like peeking into the mind of an actual serial killer . I'm not sure that's a place any of us want to be . So I can't really use the word " entertained " to describe the experience of watching Henry . But I was certainly mesmerized . It's almost clich to say , but watching Henry is akin to watching a car wreck ? it's impossible to look away . Director John McNaughton crafted an incredible film given its almost repugnant content and miniscule budget . The low budget look , the pacing , and the almost documentary style of the film really go a long way to making Henry effective . Another plus for the film is the acting of the three main characters . Michael Rooker gets most of the acclaim , but I think Tracy Arnold and especially Tom Towles give equally strong performances . It's a nice job by three unknowns ( at least unknown to many people ) . So in the end , I've got to give Henry a rating of . It's a powerful , shocking , raw , brutal movie that , while often difficult to watch , is impossible to ignore or forget .
MMMMM - Edwige	- I've now seen this movie twice and I enjoyed it even more this time . It's a fairly standard , straightforward giallo ? a series of murders in an apartment building committed by a gloved , black-cloaked figure . There are no shortage of suspects and the police are unable to do much other than find stamps for their collection ( yes , that's right ? stamps ) . But there are three things that really make The Case of the Bloody Iris stand out to me : 1 . Cast ? Any giallo with both George Hilton and Edwige Fenech is going to be a winner as far as I'm concerned . Hell , anything with Edwige is a " must see " for me . 2 . Murder scenes ? Each murder scene is very well handled . There's even one that takes place on busy sidewalk that is so well done that it seemed plausible to me . 3 . The Score ? I think Bruno Nicolai's score is one of the best I've heard . I'm especially fond of the main title music . So much so that I've burned it to a CD ( with some music from 5 Dolls for an August Moon , Deep Red , and others ) and listen to all the time on my way to and from work . - The Case of the Bloody Iris is part of Anchor Bay's The Giallo Collection . While I enjoyed some more than others , none of the four movies was what I consider bad .
A wonderful " making of " feature	Conan Unchained : The Making of Conan is an interesting look back , almost 20 years later , at probably the best Sword and Sorcerer movie ever made ? Conan the Barbarian . Maybe it has something to do with my almost fanboy kind of love for the subject matter , but this is one of the more entertaining " making of " documentaries I've seen . It's filled with stories and memories of many of the cast and crew involved in the movie . A few of my favorite moments include Arnold talking about being chased by wolves , Sandahl Bergman's story of almost losing a finger , and Max Von Sydow reminiscing about his favorite scene ( it was actually cut from the movie ) . But it's director John Miliius ' enthusiasm for the movie ? even some 20 years later ? that makes this " making of " feature so special . He comes across as a real , down-to-earth sort of guy that you'd actually like to meet . His feelings for the movie are quite evident and infectious . After listening to him talk about " The Great Danes " or the wheel of pain or the giant snake the crew built , I can't wait to watch the movie again . As much as I enjoyed Conan Unchained : The Making of Conan , I can't call it perfect . There are a few things I would have liked to have seen included . While most of the cast was interviewed for the documentary , I would have really enjoyed hearing form Mako , Ben Davidson , and / or Sven-Ole Thorsen . Also , I would have liked to see some discussion on the effect Conan the Barbarian had on the genre , the imitators , and its long lasting appeal . But you can't have everything . And as it is , Conan Unchained : The Making of Conan is still very entertaining .
" Murder not very good joke - quite unfunny . "	I've been a Charlie Chan fan since the early 70s when , as a 9 year old , I can remember watching the movies on the Late Show . While I can find something to enjoy in every one of these films , Charlie Chan in London is one of my favorites of the series . In this one , Chan is in a race against time as he's only got three days to save the life of a man wrongly accused of murder . It's got everything a Chan fan could ask for ? an interesting mystery , a boatload of suspects , actually good comic relief , nice production values , and , of course , Warner Oland . By the time Charlie Chan in London was made , Oland seems to have hit his stride playing the title role . He's confident , polite , and brilliant ? all the personality traits I've always associated with Chan . The supporting cast is as good in this one as you'll find in any of the Chan films . Ray Milland may be the most recognizable name , but it's the performances of Alan Mowbray and the incredible , scene-stealing E . E . Clive that really standout . The mystery at the center of the plot is well thought and the clues lead to a logical conclusion . Charlie Chan in London is a good one to play along with . It doesn't " cheat " as much with the reveal as some of the other Chan films .
Criminally Underrated	Every great once in a while , you stumble upon a movie that exceeds even your wildest expectations . Given the IMDb rating of 4 . 0 , I wasn't really expecting much with The Brotherhood of Satan . I hoped that at a minimum it might be cheesy fun like The Devil's Rain or any of the other early 70s similarly themed Satanic horror films . I couldn't ' have been more wrong . What I got instead was an ambitious and intelligent film with a cast I really enjoyed . Speaking in broad terms to avoid giving anything away , the film's style and structure are much more experimental than the straightforward storytelling so prominent in the early 70s . The Brotherhood of Satan doesn't beat you over the head with plot points and explanations . A lot is left to the viewer to fill in the blanks . As a viewer , you know something is amiss , but for the longest period you're just not sure what it is . The unknown helps make for a far creepier atmosphere than most similar films . The ending is effective with its surreal imagery . I sat in amazement as the final credits began to roll . Those wanting a big slam-bang finale will be disappointed with the ending's simplicity . A lesser film would have tried to pull out all the stops and would , most likely , have failed miserably . There are moments in the film where it's easy to forget the director , Bernard McEveety , had primarily worked in television before The Brotherhood of Satan . There are a few scenes that are so well set-up , lit , and shot that even the most accomplished of directors could learn a thing or two . For example , I've seen enough films over the years to realize that directors can sometimes seem to have trouble shooting widescreen shots indoors . Not here . The scene where the men are discussing their plan of action in the sheriff's office is amazing . We see all five men at once ? each doing their own thing as in real life . In a lesser film , we might see all the men at once , but each would be motionless , quietly waiting their turn to deliver their dialogue . It's a small scene , but it looks so natural and is so beautifully shot that it's one of my favorite moments of The Brotherhood of Satan . Finally , I mentioned the acting in my opening , so without going into a long-winded speech , I'll just say that The Brotherhood of Satan features Strother Martin and L . Q . Jones . Any film with these two guys is almost an automatic winner with me .
Go , Joe , Go	- The Fighting Fists of Shanghai Joe is easily one of the best Spaghetti Western / Kung Fu movies I've ever seen . Wait a minute . . . it's the only Spaghetti Western / Kung Fu movie I've ever seen . It's a strange mix of genres that actually works . - Joe is a Chinese immigrant in the Old West . All Joe wants is a job and a chance to make a new life for himself . He faces continual racial prejudices and injustice . Being a peace loving man , he takes it all in stride . But when pushed too far , he turns into a butt-kicking machine . When Joe sets a group of Mexican slaves free , the local " Big Man " hires four killers to get Joe . Can Joe's Kung Fu skills save him from these gun-toting , knife-throwing bounty hunters ? - The Fighting Fists of Shanghai Joe has a lot of things working against it . Chen Lee , in the title role , isn't the most engaging sort of actor . He's actually rather bland . Klaus Kinski , who gets top billing , is on screen for less than 10 minutes . Mario Caiano brings nothing inventive of note to the direction . And the score by Bruno Nicolai , while entertaining , is not very original . But none of that really matters . This isn't art - it's about having a good time . And on that level , The Fighting Fists of Shanghai Joe works . Watching Joe kick the crap out of a bunch of cowboys is a real blast . The fight scene between Lee and Kinski is the highlight . If you've ever wanted to see a Kung Fu master fight after being shot in both legs , this is your movie .
Classic Bava	- Nora Davis ( Leticia Roman ) is a young woman hoping to have a wonderful vacation in Italy . Within 24 hours of her arrival , she is almost mistakenly arrested for drug smuggling , the aunt she is staying with dies , she has her purse stolen , and she witnesses a murder . But the police can find no body and no signs of a murder . It seems that no on believes her . It's up to Nora to discover the truth to what happened that rainy night in the plaza . - Mario Bava is known for his magnificent use of color . So , it's a little odd that two of my favorite films that Bava made ( The Girl Who Knew Too Much and Black Sunday ) are black & white . Whatever the format , Bava again demonstrates his mastery of shadows and light very effectively . The film presents a series of images that are hard to forget . Each shot is perfection . One of my favorites is of the thief who steals Nora's purse as he moves from one side of the stairs to the other . It is admittedly a very minor moment , but Bava puts more care into this insignificant tracking shot than most director's do in the main scenes of their movies . It is one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen . - The Girl Who Knew Too Much is an obvious ( and not just in title ) homage to Alfred Hitchcock . Bava has loaded the movie with moments that are done as I imagine Hitchcock would have done them . If the movie weren't in Italian , you would swear Hitchcock directed it . - But the thing that make this movie so effective is Leticia Roman as Nora . Her performance is one of the best I've seen in a Bava film . She comes off as fragile , yet determined , depending upon what the script calls for . She has a believability that is necessary for this kind of movie if the audience to feel concern when she is in peril . Roman is perfect in the role . - One final note , this movie is often cited as the first giallo . Whether this is true or not , I only know what I've read . The Girl Who Knew Too Much does establish a very elementary framework for later gialli to follow . But , it bears little resemblance to the gialli that would come later . It's not until Bava fleshed-out the giallo in Blood and Black Lace do we get look and " rules " that have become so familiar to fans of the genre .
An Early Winner from Polanski	- Repulsion is the very dark story of one girl's decent into the depths of mental illness . She seems the kind of girl who has it all - a job , a sister who cares for her , beauty , and men dropping at her feet . But because of sexual repression and other psychosis , none of that really matters . When left alone for a week while her sister's on vacation , she stops going to work and locks herself in her apartment . She has visions of terrible things happening to her . And , she lashes out at anyone who invades her space . - While Repulsion is certainly a horrific movie , it's very sad . I couldn't help but feel sorry for the girl left alone with her fears and phobias . She's one of the more tragic figures I've seen . The girl is played marvelously by Catherine Deneuve in a very early role . She is quite simply fantastic . I could literally feel most every emotion she goes through . - But the real star is Roman Polanski . With Repulsion , Polanski has created the most claustrophobic movie I've ever seen . I was literally transported to that little , dark apartment . It's a stunning looking film .
Craven's Best	- A fairly typical family is traveling through the desert when their car runs off the road and breaks an axle . They find themselves stranded in an isolated , hot , and dry area near some rock-strewn , menacing looking hills . As it would happen , the hills are home to an equally menacing looking band of cannibals . The family must endure a night from hell as they fight to stay alive . Will they all make it ? - This is easily my favorite horror movies that Wes Craven has made . It's much more enjoyable as an entertainment vehicle than his previous work , The Last House on the Left ( I will never understand how anyone say that they find The Last House on the Left quality entertainment ) , but it's not as safe as the family-friendly , quote-ready horror he would later make . I often use the same adjectives to describe The Hills Have Eyes that I use when describing The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) - raw , savage , brutal , and unrelenting . The people in the hills don't think or act like you and I . They're quite capable of anything and prove that throughout the night with their attacks on the family . Rape , murder , and kidnap are all they know and the only way they know to survive . You get the feeling throughout the movie that anyone could die . - I'll admit that some of the acting is less than good . Virginia Vincent plays the stranded mother and delivers some lines in the most unintentionally hysterical manner . On the other end of the spectrum is Susan Lanier . Her portrayal of the frightened Brenda Carter is very realistic and adds a degree of authenticity to the film . I've often compared her performance to that of Marilyn Burns in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . Portraying a frightened character with all of the screaming involved cannot be an easy thing to do . - The Hills Have Eyes explores some of the same themes that Craven covered in The Last House on the Left . That is , who are the civilized and who are the savages ? How much and how long does it take for a normal person to be reduced the same level as their attackers ? It's an interesting idea that would require a better understanding of psychology than I have . - The Region 1 DVD from Anchor Bay is a must have for any fan of this movie . Having seen The Hills Have Eyes repeatedly at midnight movies in the early 80s , I didn't think the movie could look this good . It's not perfect , but it is so superior to any other transfer I've seen . The DVD is loaded with features , including a very informative commentary from Craven and the producer , Peter Locke , and a " making of " documentary that runs almost one hour . It's one of the best SEs that I own .
The definition of atmosphere	Mill of the Stone Women is the story of a researcher named Hans who is finishing a book on the famous sculptor Professor Wahl and his carousel . The carousel features wax representations of women being tortured and killed in a variety of sadistic and inventive ways . A meeting with the Professor's beautiful , seductive daughter , Elfi , ignites conflicting passions within Hans because of his one true love Liselotte . Things are even more complicated because breaking the news to Elfi will not be easy . She suffers from a rare disease that can cause death if she becomes too upset or disturbed . In addition , Hans is convinced that Professor Wahl is up to some twisted experiments that may involve several of the local women including his Liselotte . Hans must solve the mystery of the windmill and the carousel if he is to save himself and the one woman he cares about . What Works : - Atmosphere , Atmosphere , Atmosphere . If you're into atmosphere with your horror , look no further than Mill of the Stone Women . Most movies can't claim to have of the atmosphere found here . The barren landscape , the isolated windmill , the constant overcast skies , the dark corridors with secret rooms in the windmill , the eerie music , the twisted carousel of death , and the Gothic trappings everywhere you look all add to a movie that just drips with atmosphere . The movie takes it's time and doesn't rush or try to force things . There's a real foreboding sense of unease that runs throughout the movie . There are moments when you might think the atmosphere is going to literally ooze from the screen into your living room . - Scilla Gabel . Gabel is one of those women of the 60s that I don't think exist anymore . She's from that Sophia Loren - Claudia Cardinale ? Daliah Lavi mold of women that were a product of that time . She may never be confused with a great actress , but she has a screen presence that's hard to beat . - Prof . Gregorius Wahl . What a character ! Robert Boehme does an excellent job of playing a mad , but goofy , genius . By the end of Mill of the Stone Women , though , it's easy to feel some sympathy for him as his dreams are shattered . It's an excellent piece of acting from a man whose acting credits only include this movie . - Wooden Shoes . Any movie with people wearing wooden shoes has to get a bonus point from me . What Doesn't Work : - Slow Going . For me , this is a plus . But I put it here to warn those who prefer a movie with a killing or explosion every five minutes . - Love Story . Because Hans represents a new , exciting life , it's easy to see why Elfi might quickly fall for him . And , because Elfi is such a looker , it's easy to see why Hans might be interested in Elfi . But the fact that both are declaring their undying love for each other after one five-minute meeting stretches the imagination quite a bit . In the end , Mill of the Stone Women is one of the finest examples of a Gothic , atmospheric movie ever made . The film plays like a combination of The House of Wax meets Eyes Without a Face . It's a wonderful movie that I enjoy more each time I get the chance to watch .
Another Mexican horror winner !	Another Mexican horror winner ! Until just recently , I doubt I could have named more than a half dozen Mexican horror films that didn't feature a masked wrestler . As I'm quickly discovering , Mexican horror has much more to offer ? especially for fans of Gothic horror . Films like The Black Pit of Dr . M appear to be heavily influenced by the classic Gothic Universal films of the 1930s . They have the same thick atmosphere , similar looking sets , a familiar grand but foreboding score , and common plot themes . In fact , if the actors weren't speaking Spanish and you could replace the main actor with Boris Karloff , you would essentially have a 1930s American horror film . The Black Pit of Dr . M is the story of a couple of doctors who have made what is in essence a death pact . The one who dies first will do whatever he can to comeback to let the another know what the afterlife is like . But Dr . Mazali isn't content with knowing what happens after death , he wants to experience it . His recently departed friend , Dr . Aldama , informs Dr . Mazali that it might be possible him to experience the afterlife , yet return to the living . But is Dr . Mazali willing to pay a heavy price to cheat death ? If I have one complaint with The Black Pit of Dr . M it would be with the predictable nature of some of the plot points toward the end of the movie . Maybe I've seen too many similar movies or maybe the movie really is predictable , but a few more plot twists in the films finale would have made this one even better . As it is , The Black Pit of Dr . M is a wonderfully entertaining movie even with this weakness . Fans of Gothic horror are sure to enjoy this one . Casa Negra's new DVD is amazing given the obscure nature of the movie . I sincerely doubt that The Black Pit of Dr . M ever looked better . The DVD includes a warning about some brassy moments in the film's soundtrack , and while I noticed it , the audio weaknesses never distracted or took away from the film's enjoyment . The extras are nice and include a very informative commentary with IVTV founder Frank Coleman . Overall , it's another solid job by Casa Negra .
" Yeah , baby , yeah "	I remember being terribly excited when Austin Powers : International Man of Mystery was first released . I couldn't wait to see it . And for one of the few times in my life , a movie not only lived-up to the hype , but actually exceeded my expectations . At the time , I considered it a real winner and would have most likely rated it a ( if I had been rating movies at the time ) . I re-watched Austin Powers : IMoM this weekend for the first time in something like 5 or 6 years . How would it hold up ? This is the portion of most user comments where I write something about being disappointed by an old favorite I haven't seen in years . Well , I'm happy to report that that's not the case here . The comedy in Austin Powers : IMoM works as well today as it did 12 years ago . The movie really is Mike Myers ' baby from start to finish and he was never better or funnier . The writing is sensational . Myers ' understanding and parody of James Bond , the 60s , and general pop culture is spot on . The notion of Dr . Evil's outdated plans for taking over the world through force in contrast with No . 2's ability to do even better and be more successful in the world of business is s small point , but very cleverly written . Myers is laugh out loud funny whether in the guise of Austin Powers or Dr . Evil . It's brilliant ! And there are some truly inspired set-pieces that work flawlessly . The sea bass with lasers scenes , the Fembots , and Dr . Evil's therapy sessions are all plain old funny . For my money , comedy doesn't get much better than this . With so much of the film focusing on Myers , it's almost surprising that the often underutilized supporting cast are nonetheless excellent . Elizabeth Hurley , Mimi Rogers , and even Seth Green ( who normally gets on my nerves ) give fine performances . But it's Robert Wagner as No . 2 who actually upstages even Myers on occasion that I find the best . Wagner's No . 2 is a scream ! Wagner is so dead-pan serious that its amazing . It's a very nice piece of acting . In the end , Austin Powers : IMoM is as fresh today as ever . I'm still more than comfortable with my initial assessment and have now " officially " rated it a . Good job by all involved !
" Crazy , am I ? We'll see whether I'm crazy or not . "	Revisiting Frankenstein is always a wonderful experience . I watch it today with the same enthusiasm and awe I did nearly 35 years ago . Everything about the film is so perfect . Acting , direction , cinematography , set design , plot , dialogue , special effects , etc . are top notch . And although each of these areas deserves to be discussed in detail ( and have in the volumes that have been written on Frankenstein ) , I'll focus on two areas that really standout to me ? Boris Karloff as the monster and James Whales direction . Is there a more iconic image in horror than Boris Karloff as the Frankenstein monster ? I sincerely doubt it . Even those who wouldn't be caught dead watching a horror film are familiar with that image . Beyond Jack Pierce's make-up , Karloff is amazing in the role . Even with the make-up , Karloff gives the monster life . We are able to see and feel the emotions the monster goes through . There is no better example than the scene with the monster and the little girl . As the monster stumbles out of the woods , there is a cautious look about him as his experiences with humans have thus far been less than satisfactory . But when the little girl accepts him and wants to play with him , the look of caution is transformed into a look of utter happiness . He smiles , he laughs , and he plays . But that emotion is replaced by one of confusion mixed with anger when he accidentally kills the girl . It's all there on Karloff wonderful face . It's this life that Karloff imbibes in the monster that makes Frankenstein a real classic . I've always thought that James Whale's direction was ahead of its time . In an era when directors were using what I call the " plant and shoot " method of filming , Whale made his camera a fluid part of the action . Whale takes the viewer beyond just watching moving images . He uses the camera to take the viewer into the scene . A small example is the way Whale filmed characters moving from one room to the next . The camera moves with the characters . Another example is the tracking shot Whale uses as the father carries his dead child into the town . As I said earlier , it has a fluidity in the way Whale filmed these scenes that makes it seem more natural . Finally , the way Whale introduces the monster is a highlight of the film . The monster backs into the room . As he turns , Whale shows the monster with three quick , ever tighter shots , ending with a close-up of the monster's face . Every Hollywood star of that era could have only wished for an introduction like that . While I have done nothing but praise Frankenstein , I'm not such a fan that I can't spot flaws in the film . The major issue with me has always been the way the scenes of action , horror , and violence are inter-cut with scenes of tranquility and bliss . I realize that was the way things were done in the 30s so people wouldn't , in essence , overload on horror , but it can make the film seem a little disjointed . But it's difficult to hold Whale overly responsible for this custom of the period .
A Masterpiece	- Every once in a great while , you stumble upon a movie that you immediately know is a masterpiece . I had read what other people had written about Audition , but didn't really believe all the hype . Surely it couldn't be as good as people claimed . After seeing Audition for the first time , I simply cannot get the film out of my mind . I doubt I can come up with enough glowing adjectives to describe the movie - disturbing , fascinating , brutal , engrossing , etc . It is quite simply on of the best movies I've ever seen . Fortunately , I knew very little about Audition before I watched . The final 30 or so minutes blew me away . I'm not going to go into detail as this would ruin the movie for those who haven't seen it . Just be prepared for one of the most shocking endings you'll ever likely see . - The plot starts out as something right out of a Hollywood romantic-comedy . A middle-aged man wants to find a new wife . A producer friend of his sets up a series of bogus movie auditions as a way of meeting women . Does it sound enough like typical Hollywood tripe ? The man meets the woman of his dreams . Or is she ? What dark secrets does she hide ? Watch and be amazed . - The acting is first rate . The two leads , Ryo Ishibashi and Eihi Shiina , are both excellently cast . Ishibashi comes across as a sympathetic figure who simply wants a companion . Shiina's performance is excellent as the seemingly demure woman with a hidden secret . - Takashi Miike is certainly a director that can be mentioned with the greats of the genre . The images he presents may be difficult to watch , but they aren't easily forgotten . Cinematography , editing , lighting , and the use of dream sequences are all first rate . Since I watched Audition , I've read numerous complaints about how slow the first part of the movie is . While it may seem slow to those more accustomed to Hollywood films where somebody is killed or something is blown-up every five minutes , the slow pace is absolutely necessary to increase the shock value of the end . Miike knew what he was doing . - There are any number of ways to interpret the film . I'm sure that with subsequent viewings , I'll look at the events the movie presents in a different light . There's a lot here to take in during one viewing . I'm almost positive that I'll change the rating of Audition to a after a second viewing .
" In my opinion , you are the most obstinate young woman I have ever met . "	Delightful is the best word I can think of to describe The Ghost and Mrs . Muir . It's got everything ? drama , comedy , romance , fantasy , good acting , solid direction , interesting cinematography , a beautiful score , atmosphere , nice sets , and a well-written script . It's taken me a while to finally get around to watching The Ghost and Mrs . Muir . From what some friends of mine ( whose opinions I am now highly suspicious of ) warned me that it was a sappy , sentimental movie and not my kind of thing at all . They couldn't have been more wrong . In short , it's very nearly a prefect movie . While I could write pages about most every aspect of this film , I'll instead just mention a couple of areas that really stood out to me . First , the acting . Over the past couple of years I've become something of a Gene Tierney fan . I've still got a way to go see all of her films , but I sincerely doubt I'll enjoy her performance in anything as much as I did The Ghost and Mrs . Muir ( and that includes Laura ) . I can't imagine anyone doing a better job of bringing life to Lucy Muir . It was easy to forget I was watching a character on a screen and not peeping into the life of a real person . Well done . The second area I'll mention is the score . Bernard Herrmann's music fits every frame of The Ghost and Mrs . Muir flawlessly . The music adds immensely to the emotional roller coaster that is the plot . There are very few scores I would rate any higher than this one .
I've waited over 30 years to see this	Finally ! After 30 some odd years , I finally got the chance to see The Hardy Boys : The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure in its entirety . In the early 70s , one of the local UHF channels ran repeats of the Mickey Mouse Club from the 50s . Included was the daily serial The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure . For whatever reason , I never got to see the whole thing . So for over 30 years I was left wondering about the show and what happened and how the mystery was resolved . And for 30 years , I've had the theme song stuck in my head . I'm very happy Disney released this series . So was it worth the wait ? You betcha ! While The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure may not have been as " spooky " as I remembered , it was a lot of fun reliving this moment of my childhood . The story is solid in that innocent , child-friendly , 50s sort of way . Remember , this is a serial designed for kids and made more than 50 years ago . The acting is actually quite good . While neither Tommy Kirk nor Tim Considine is what I would call a world-class actor , both give it their all and are a joy to watch . The supporting players are just as good ( if not better in some cases ) with Arthur Shields , Florenz Ames , and Carole Ann Campbell really shining . The sets are much better than I remembered . Sure , it's all stage-bound , but the Applegate Tower looked as good as I remembered . The direction is capable at a minimum with the usually dependable Charles Haas at the helm . Overall , it's a good show . Disney has released The Hardy Boys : The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure as part of their Walt Disney Treasures line . While I didn't really care about seeing the Mickey Mouse Club stuff or some of the other extras , the overall package is very nice . It makes for a very welcome addition to my DVD library .
" Give me a glass of water and a couple of lesbians . "	A week ago , I had never heard of The Last of Sheila . Now I consider it one of my all time favorite movies . Going through a plot as twisted and intricate as this one seems impossible without giving away too much . Part of the fun I had with it came from knowing next to nothing about the plot before I sat down to give it a watch . I'll just say that The Last of Sheila is an ingenious mystery with a wicked sense of dark humor . Anthony Perkins and Stephen Sondheim ( an unlikely pair of writers if you ask me ) are responsible for the intelligent , witty screenplay . Mysteries can be difficult to write . Most either make the killer too obvious or hold back vital clues until the final reveal . That's not the case with this cleverly written screenplay . Other than a few insignificant plot holes , everything fits nicely into place by the film's end . Most everything you need to solve the puzzle is out in the open , if you can spot it . It's very well done . Other than the mystery elements found in the plot , I really enjoyed the cast in The Last of Sheila . They bring life and a sense of enjoyment to the movie . I've always been a fan of James Coburn , but I don't remember ever seeing him having so much apparent fun with a role . I've always thought of James Mason as an under-appreciated actor and he gives his usual steady performance . The shocking part of the cast for me was Dyan Cannon . I'm not sure I've seen in her many other films and I've always looked at her as something of a laughing buffoon . She's good here and holds her own with the rest of the cast . As for the rest of the actors , other than Raquel Welch , I would say that everyone in the cast delivers a solid performance .
" It has been established that persons who have recently died have been returning to life and committing acts of murder . "	As a horror fan , I'm often asked my opinion on what the scariest movie of all time is . I always give the same answer ? Night of the Living Dead . There is no movie that fills me with more of a sense of unease , literally has the hair on the back of my neck standing on end , and causes me to actually look in the dark corners of a room like George Romero's masterpiece . Fear is so subjective that I am fully aware that what frightens me might not automatically frighten you . But in the case of Night of the Living Dead , I have trouble understanding how anyone isn't affected the same way I am . It's that powerful to me . I'm not the biggest Romero fan in the world , but I am of Night of the Living Dead . What he was able to accomplish with an obviously limited budget is nothing short of amazing . Romero created more atmosphere in the opening ten minutes of Night of the Living Dead than most directors with unlimited budgets ever could . Some of the acting may not be the best you'll run across , but for me that only adds to the film's authentic feel . They seem like real people trapped in that house . The special effects may not be as realistic as those in other zombie movies , but I've never seen what someone eating a kidney really looks like . It works very well with me . Finally , the ending is as bleak and powerful as any horror movie I've seen . Most directors would have been tempted ( or forced ) to give it a happy ending . Thankfully , Romero isn't most directors . In short , Night of the Living Dead is the stuff of real nightmares .
Poor Solange	A group of friends from an all-girls school are being brutally murdered . The girls seem to be connected through Suspicion naturally falls on one of the teachers who had an affair with one of the girls . Even though his innocence is proved , he works to solve the case . The only real clue he has is a mysterious girl named Solange . If he is to stop the killer , he must discover the secret of what happened to Solange . A lot of the Gialli I've seen can realistically be described as quirky or campy . That's not the case with What Have You Done to Solange ? It has a much more serious tone to it that can at times be almost depressing . I suppose if I were to compare it with any movie it would be Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling . Both present dark , gritty portrayals of murder without a lot of the flash found in many of their brethren of the sub-genre . While much of the actual murder scenes take place off-screen , what is implied is as sick and twisted as you'll encounter . The gruesome aftermath of at least one of these deaths always leaves sick feeling in my stomach because of its brutality . And when you finally do meet Solange , she is as sad and pathetic a victim as I've ever seen in a movie . Overall , it's not what you would call a light-hearted watch , but it's one of the more engrossing Gialli I've seen .
" I shoulda grabbed you by the neck , I shoulda kicked your teeth in . "	Wow ! Criss Cross was a blind purchase for me . I really had never read much about it until I decided to give it a try . While I was hoping to be entertained , I wasn't expecting to enjoy it this much . Burt Lancaster has never been a favorite of mine . In fact , other than The Killers , I can't think of another role of his that I've so completely enjoyed . He's wonderful in this movie . As for Yvonne De Carlo , the only other thing I remember seeing her in was the television show " The Munsters " . And , while she may not be the greatest actress of all time , she's very good here . I never pictured Lily looking like this . As for Dan Duryea , he's a great baddie . Mannerisms , speech , and the rest of the package just ooze with sleaze . Together , and with the help of an excellent supporting cast , they're great . As for the movie , it's a very entertaining noir with plenty of twists and turns along the way . Lancaster is the kind of man who drinks too much , De Carlo is the kind of woman who uses men to get what she wants , and Duryea is the kind of man who would as soon shoot you as look at you . It's gritty , sometimes violent , and always entertaining . The film is expertly directed by Robert Siodmak , whose work I've always enjoyed . The script is exceptional with more double-crosses in the final half than one movie has a right to . No one is above double-crossing anyone else . It makes for a very entertaining hour and a half . The movie also features a nice look at Los Angeles in the 40s . The scenes of middle-class , single-family neighborhoods are quite different from the city of today . While Criss Cross may not be the best film noir I've seen , I would place it somewhere on a list of my ten favorite noirs . I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to fans of the genre .
One of Bava's Best	This is a true Gothic masterpiece from the Italian genius , Mario Bava . Kill , Baby . . . Kill ! is downright creepy , with loads of atmosphere . Some of the visuals in the film are amazing - the repeating room , the spiral staircase , the scene shot from the swing , etc . Most of the scenes are done in a wash of colored light that only adds to the mood . The little girl freaked me out the first time I saw the movie . I know that some have complained that the little girl really does nothing , but to me , that only adds to her creepiness as in the scene where she watches through the window as the innkeeper's daughter kills herself or when she appears in the locked cabinet in the burgomeister's house . They definitely don't make films like this today , but oh how I wish someone would or could . A definite must see for fans of dark , Gothic type horror films .
Fantastic	- A lot has happened to Susy Hendrix in the past year - she lost her sight in an auto accident , she got married , and now her husband has unknowingly brought home a doll full of heroin . Three men will do whatever it takes to get the doll . At first they try to trick her . When this doesn't work , they resort to violence . - The con the three men attempt to work on Susy is amazing to watch unfold . They come to her one at a time with a story that slowly unfolds . They force Susy to believe that her husband was involved with a murder of a woman and that finding the doll is the only way to save him . The con reaches a point where Susy would do anything to get rid of the doll . But they push their luck a little too far and Susy starts to suspect that something is wrong . The con men believe they could pull one over on her because she is blind , but that doesn't mean she is stupid . Wait Until Dark may not be a traditional horror movie , but the final fifteen minutes or so with Susy and Roat alone in the darkened apartment are as gut-wrenching as I've ever seen . The horror comes from the situation Susy is faced with , the fact that we already know what Roat is capable of , and Susy's fragility and blindness . Together , these factors make for a very exhilarating ending . - The acting in Wait Until Dark is phenomenal . I cannot tell you how impressed I was with Audrey Hepburn playing the blind Susy Hendrix . I bought her " blind act " from the first moment she appeared on screen . I'm not surprised that Hepburn was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance . And Alan Arkin is so deliciously psychotic as Roat . You really get the feeling he is capable of anything . Richard Crenna and Jack Watson are also quite good as the other two con men .
Hammer should have made more zombie films	The basic story : Sir James Forbes ( Andr Morell } and his daughter Sylvia ( Diane Clare } visit a doctor friend and his wife to help with some strange goings-on in town . Sir James soon suspects supernatural forces are at work . After the doctor's wife dies of a strange illness , Sir James and the doctor spend the night in the cemetery to see what will happen . Sure enough , she rises from the grave . When Sylvia begins showing similar symptoms to that of the doctor's wife , Sir James knows he must find who or what is behind the dead coming back to life . Anymore of the story would be too much . The acting in The Plague of the Zombies is excellent . Andre Morell ( who also played Watson in Hammer's excellent version of The Hound of the Baskervilles ) is very believable and effective as Sir James . And , Diane Clare is perfect in the role of the fragile Sylvia . This is Hammer , so Michael Ripper is here doing his usual steady work as the local police sergeant . The rest of the cast is more than adequate . Most every Hammer film I've seen is a treat for the eye , but this is one of the more visually pleasing Hammer films I've ever seen . The sets , the Cornish village , the vivid colors ( example : the deep , rich red Hammer blood ) , and the costumes are dead on . But what makes this film so impressive is the intelligent script written by Peter Bryan . Bryan has crafted a script with characters that act and speak appropriately . For example , instead of just accepting the fact that the dead are coming back to life , Sir James ( as a scientist ) must have proof . The steps he takes to find out what's going on are believable and realistic . Too many horror films have supposed scientists jumping to the wildest of conclusions without a shred of proof . Today's script writers could learn a thing or two from this movie . A word of warning to fans of more modern zombie films - these are not the zombies of Fulci or Romero . The zombies in this movie more closely resemble those in White Zombie or , one of my favorites , King of the Zombies . Instead of being mindless flesh-eaters , these zombies appear to have some reasoning ability and serve a master as a slave . The make-up is not as gruesome as modern zombies , but given Hammer's usual limited budgets , it's quite good .
One of the series ' best	A series of otherwise unrelated murders have a few things in common . Namely , the perpetrator in each instance appears to be unstoppable . Neither bullets nor doors slow him down . Steed and Mrs . Peel are called in to investigate and soon find the genius behind a technology company is central to all the murders . But he's wheelchair-bound . He couldn't be responsible for the killings . Or could he ? " The Cybernauts " has to be one of my all-time favorite episodes of The Avengers that I've seen . The mix of sci-fi , espionage , horror , and that touch of humor ever present in the show make this one near perfect . The tension gets turned up a notch as Mrs . Peel becomes the mistaken target of an unstoppable killer . The finale is more than satisfying . The special effects may be laughable when compared to what we have today , but to me that's part of the shows charm . Diana Rigg and Patrick Macnee are wonderful . In just a few episodes , the two work together as if they had done so forever . They are joined in " The Cybernauts " by the very capable Michael Gough . Even though he's in a wheelchair the entire episode , he's an actor quite capable of dominating any scene he's in . Nicely done by everyone involved ! If you've never seen The Avengers and are curious about the fuss , " The Cybernauts " would be a good one to start with .
" Hey , there's something down here . . . "	Sometimes I feel like I'm a couple of years behind everyone else . I had read the reviews from my online " friends " , but for whatever reason , I had a hard time believing what they were writing about The Descent . I thought there was no way it could be that good ! Well , they were right and I was wrong because The Descent is surely one of the best horror films this century has thus far produced . I've been watching horror for 35 or so years and it takes a lot to frighten me . I mention this not as a boast , but to put some credence behind my statement that The Descent is one of the scarier movies I've ever seen . It's frightening because it works on several different levels . There's the fear of closed spaces . There's the fear of the dark . There's the fear of the unfamiliar . And there is the fear of some unknown creature . Director Neil Marshall masterfully plays with each one of these types of fear . I was literally on the edge of my seat . In addition , most everything else about The Descent is first rate ? acting , special effects ( nice to see so much non-CGI on display ) , sound , editing , lighting , cinematography , etc . It's a very nice job indeed ! Another thing that Marshall did that I really like was he kept it " real " . What I mean is that everything worked within the framework of reality as the audience knows it ( well that is if you accept the notion of the underground creatures ) . The women were real and most of their reactions to the situations they found themselves in were real . The cave felt real even though it wasn't . The cave lighting was real and justified given the equipment the women were carrying . Even the albino mutants seemed to operate and function in a manner I would expect from such creatures . It's this realism that Marshall put into The Descent that goes a long way to making it as frightening as it is . As good as The Descent is and as much as I enjoyed the experience , it's not a perfect movie . There are a couple of areas where I thought Marshall should have done something differently . First , did there have to be a final showdown between two of the women ? I realize it was necessary for the subplot of Sarah taking control of her life , but did it have to be so clichd ? Second , some of the foreshadowing all but slaps you in the face with its obviousness . Yeah , she left the map in her car ? do you have to beat me over the head with it ? I realize these are very minor quibbles and hardly take anything away from the movie . Finally , I can't wait to see what Neil Marshall comes up with next . He is truly one of the most promising directors working in horror today .
Fascinating	When there's something I enjoy as much as the Val Lewton movies , I simply cannot get enough information . Shadows in the Dark : The Val Lewton Legacy is a fascinating look at the man and his work . The documentary covers everything from Lewton's arrival in America as a child to his early work for David O . Selznick to the nine horror films he made for RKO . The stories and details of Lewton's life and films are presented through a series of interviews with experts on cinema , directors and screenwriters working today , and Lewton's son . The documentary obviously focuses and spends most of its runtime on the RKO period . The film makes it clear that what I've come to know as the " Lewton Look " was as much a budgetary issue as a conscious decision on his part . The only complaint I have is that it wasn't longer .
One of the funniest movies ever made	- Very few films can make me laugh out loud after I've seen them a dozen or so times . Monty Python and the Holy Grail is one of the exceptions . I can't help myself . Even though I know most of the movie by heart , I still laugh . The bits with the French guards at the castle , the Black Knight , the " Burn the Witch " mob , and the political discussions with the mud-collecting-peasants are as fresh today as the first time I saw the movie . It's silly , absurd , and totally ridiculous . But it works . I sincerely doubt I'll ever get tired of it . - Much of the reason I like the film so much is the decision on the part of Gilliam and Jones to play most of the movie straight . Graham Chapman plays King Arthur so deadly serious that it only makes the craziness around him even funnier . Had he played King Arthur for laughs , it wouldn't have been nearly so funny .
Milian is Brilliant	- Given my limited experience with Italian crime / cop films , this is easily the best I've seen . Tomas Milian is Giulio Sacchi , a small time crook with big time dreams . He shows no hesitation or remorse when it comes to killing . He will kill anyone who he thinks is in his way . He even kills a policeman for the change from a cigarette machine . He hatches a plan to kidnap the daughter of a wealthy man . That's when all hell breaks loose . Anyone , and I mean anyone , in his way had better watch out . - Almost Human is incredibly violent . At times , I was reminded of vicious nature of movies like The Last House on the Left . It's that sadistic . One of my " favorite " moments has to be when Sacchi and his pals tie three people from a chandelier and torment them physically and sexually before finally filling their bodies with bullets . It's an incredibly brutal scene that goes a long way to showing how demented Sacchi really is . - Milian has always been a favorite of mine , but the more I see of his work , I become even more impressed . While I may have liked his portrayal of Rambo in Syndicate Sadists more , there's no denying how good he is at playing Sacchi . The rest of the cast is also very good . Henry Silva , as the cop who won't stop , and Anita Strindberg , as the doomed girlfriend , really standout .
" I think we'll start with a reign of terror . "	People tend to use the word " classic " too freely . I can't help but laugh when I hear some of the movies that people call " classics " . The term gets thrown around so much that it often looses some of its importance and real meaning . I try to reserve " classic " to a select group of films that I believe have achieved a certain status and have withstood the test of time . And I have no problem putting the label " classic " on The Invisible Man . James Whale made a lot of great films in the 1930s . Some ( Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein , for example ) may be better known , but I've always thought of The Invisible Man as the best of the bunch . It's got everything . Terrific performances , incredible special effects , nice comedic touches , and technical brilliance are found in abundance throughout the film . - Terrific Performances : For someone who only has a few seconds of actual screen time , Claude Rains is amazing . His voice creates such a presence that at times it's easy to forget that he's not actually there . As for Una O'Connor , I've seen some people complain about Whale's use of her , but I think she was never better than in The Invisible Man . She's great whether playing the proper landlord showing a new guest to his room or as the overly hysterical woman afraid for her life . The rest of the cast , especially E . E . Clive and Gloria Stuart , is exceptional . - Incredible Special Effects : It's amazing to revisit The Invisible Man and see how well the special effects have withstood the passage of time . They were state-of-the-art in 1933 and they remain impressive today . It took some real craftsmanship to pull-off the invisibility gags seen in The Invisible Man . To me , none is more impressive than the first time we get a glimpse under the bandages while he's eating and we see no lower jaw . Impressive stuff ! - Nice Comedic Touches : Billed as a horror film , The Invisible Man actually contains more scenes of humor than horror . I've already mentioned O'Connor , but she's only a small part of the humor in the film . The police , the various frightened passersby , and even Claude Rains himself add to the fun found in The Invisible Man . I'm of the opinion that it never goes overboard , but fits nicely into the plot . - Technical Brilliance : Beyond the special effects , the film is wonderful from a technical standpoint . Lighting , cinematography , and set design are incredible and some of the best of the 30s . Everything looks perfect . In my opinion , Whale never did better . I've always been impressed by the way Whale used his camera as part of the action when many of his contemporaries seemed content with the " plant it and shoot " style of film-making . The only negative aspect of the film that I can possibly complain about is William Harrigan in the role of Rains ' rival , Dr . Arthur Kemp . He's just not as good as those around him . Other than that little quibble , I've got nothing to complain about . I believe it should be easy to see why I , for one , consider The Invisible Man a classic !
Another winner from Preminger	Stella ( Linda Darnell ) is the kind of woman men fall for . And Eric Stanton ( Dana Andrews ) has fallen very hard . Unfortunately for Eric , Stella wants two things that he cannot immediately give her ? a ring and money . Eric hatches an elaborate plan to come up with both through wooing , marrying , and stealing from June Mills ( Alice Faye ) , the town's rich , young , unmarried woman . But shortly after their married , Stella is murdered . Eric quickly become suspect # 1 . Can Eric prove his innocence ? I've seen several of Otto Preminger's noirs for the first time recently and Fallen Angel is one of the best . It's got everything you could ask for in a noir . Atmosphere you can cut with a knife , terrific performances from the entire cast , an intriguing plot , interesting cinematography and lighting , and just about everything else you could name are as good as you'll find . Fallen Angel also has some very nice mystery elements . The final reveal really caught me off guard . I would have never guessed the real killer's identity . It's just a wonderful movie .
Cool	- Mario Bava may be best known for the horror films he directed , but he wasn't limited to just one genre . He dabbled in science-fiction , westerns , comedies , and peplums . That brings us to this , his " spy " film . And what a film it is ! - If you didn't know that Bava directed Danger Diabolik and you caught parts of it , you would immediately notice his style all over the film . Innovative camera work , impeccable lighting , wonderful mat paintings , and terrific set design are all highlights that have Bava's fingerprints all over them . It's a visually stunning movie from start to finish . It's a real pleasure to watch each scene just to see what Bava will come up with next . - As for the story and the character Diabolik , for lack of an intelligent review , I'll simply say that it's one of the " coolest " films I've ever seen . Diabolik is the ultimate criminal . His underground lair is as good as anything you'll see in a Bond film . As is his girl , Eva Kant . She's the perfect compliment to Diabolik , a woman who can keep up with him . Their his and hers white and black Jaguars are the epitome of style . As I said , it's all just so " cool " . - My only real complaint is with some of the acting . John Phillip Law may consider himself a leading man on the order of Steve McQueen ( at least that's the impression I was left with after listening to the commentary ) , but he's got a long way to go . The best I can say is that as an actor he's adequate at best . - The rest of the cast is first rate . Terry Thomas is always fun - never more so than here as the government official who has to deal with the result of Diabolik's crimes . Marisa Mell is a joy to watch as Eva . And Bond veteran Adolfo Celi is good in the role of the competing master criminal . The other supporting cast is just as good . - In the end , if you're a fan of 60s spy films , Danger Diabolik should please . But , if you're a fan of Bava , Danger Diabolik should become a real favorite .
" What are The 39 Steps ? "	What a wonderful film ! In this early effort , Alfred Hitchcock shows why he would one day become arguably the greatest director ever . You want mystery ? The 39 Steps has got it . You want comedy ? The 39 Steps has got it . You want intrigue ? The 39 Steps has got it . You want a little romance ? The 39 Steps has got it . It's all here and wonderfully done . And the best part , it's aged rather well . The actors speak in a natural tone and rhythm and it doesn't have that " stagey " feeling that so many early mystery / thrillers seem to have . And talk about influential . I doubt it was the first , but The 39 Steps sets out the blueprint of the " wrongly accused man on the run trying to find the truth " that has been copied countless numbers of times . The number of films that have followed this formula is staggering . Even Hitchcock himself would revisit this formula over and over again . Why mess with a winner ? The only negative thing I can say about The 39 Steps and the only reason I don't rate it a is my problem with the lead actor , Robert Donat . It's not that he's particularly bad , but he's just not a very likable guy .
A true masterpiece	I'm kicking myself ? Why in the world did I wait so long to watch this movie ? The House That Screamed ( or La Residencia which I think I prefer ) is a film right up my alley . The movie tells the story of a boarding school owned by Mme . Fourneau . She runs the place with an iron fist . A new student , Theresa , has had enough of the rules and the humiliation and desires to escape . But does anyone really escape from this place ? Not if Mme . Foureneau can help it . And not if an unknown killer with a penchant for slashing young girls ' necks gets hold of you . I admit that I went in expecting typical Euro-trash , but instead , I was treated to one of the best Gothic horror films that I've ever seen . La Residencia plays a bit like a cross between the early giallo Naked You Die and Dario Argento's masterpiece Suspiria with a touch of a WIP thrown in for good measure . The whole movie has a sense of dread about it that I found appealing . And I love a movie with atmosphere and , fortunately , La Residencia's got it to burn . The large , rambling , darkly lit school with its many secret rooms and passageways ; Waldo da los Rios ' mood-enhancing score ; and the magnificently creepy lighting and cinematography all add to atmosphere that all but beats you over the head with its effectiveness . Of course a major factor in the film's success is the masterful direction of Narciso Ibez Serrador . He's more than capable of handling the more suspenseful moments and wringing every last drop of tension out of even seemingly mundane scenes . And switching the film's focus from Theresa to Irene about of the way through the film is genius . Well done ! The acting is also wonderful . I expected a good performance from Christina Galbo and she didn't disappoint . Lilli Palmer is new to me , but her Mme . Fourneau is one of those characters I'll never forget . But most impressive is the job turned in by Mary Maude as Irene . The fact that she's able to transform her character from the loathsome tormentor of Galbo's Theresa to the film's heroine in the final act is nothing short of a miracle . Finally , I would be remiss if I didn't at least mention the film's final twist . I won't give anything away , but I will say that it's amazingly well handled . Bravo ! In the end , La Residencia is a real undiscovered gem that should have a wider audience even among Euro-horror fans . It will most likely go down as one of the best " new " movies I see in 2009 . Something else it deserves is a good , legitimate R1 release . It certainly deserves better than the Elvira treatment . Nothing against Elvira ? I loved her show and miss seeing a lot of the cheesy horror she brought the screen . La Residencia , however , doesn't fit that description .
" This has gone well beyond the boundaries of prudence and good taste . "	Spider Baby is an almost perfect blend of black comedy and horror . The movie is just so bizarre that it must be seen to be believed . The basic story : Lon Chaney Jr . plays Bruno , the chauffeur and " caretaker " for the Merrye family . The Merrye's suffer from a rare disease that causes each member of the family to slowly degenerate mentally to the point of cannibalism . Chaney is in charge of the last three members of the inbred Merrye family and he understands what fate awaits them should the outside world discover their secret . When some distant relatives show up to take over the estate , madness ensues . Chaney is fantastic in the role of Bruno . IMO , this may be his best performance outside of his better known Wolf Man character . His comic timing is almost perfect , but he's equally adept a the dramatic moments . There is one very emotional scene when Chaney realizes what he must do that is so well played that I almost cried along with him . It's nice to see Chaney having so much fun with one of his final roles . It's also nice to see another of my favorites , Mantan Moreland , in one of final performances . Although it's a small part , his character is necessary to set up the madness to come . But the real ' stars ' of Spider Baby are the children . Beverly Washburn , Jill Banner , and Sid Haig are so incredibly bizarre and demented that I really can't say enough about how good and perfectly suited for their roles each is . Terrific performances by three young unknown actors . There are so many wonderful and freaky scenes that going through all of them would take pages of writing . One of my favorite scenes is the dinner scene . Some really great comedic moments mixed with repulsion over what's going on . I love Chaney's line during the dinner about the full moon . Who said that Scream was so original for being a self-referential horror movie ? There are only two negative things I can say about the movie . One is the performance of Karl Schanzer as Schlocker the lawyer . He just doesn't seem ' real ' . My second complaint is the amount of time given to the relatives living in the basement . I would have really enjoyed seeing more of them .
" Now a Manhattan you always shake to fox-trot time , a Bronx to two-step time , a dry martini you always shake to waltz time . "	With The Thin Man , William Powell and Myrna Loy created what may be the perfect on-screen couple ? Nick and Nora Charles . The two work flawlessly with one another . Their witty quips and playful banter seem so natural . I know that real people don't exactly talk like they do , but it just seems so effortless . Nick and Nora have style to burn . Just watch Nora glide from her bedroom to the front door in her flowing silk nightgown and you'll see what I mean . Their alcohol consumption may be a bit overdone , but it fits their characters . These people can do more after drinking a bottle of gin than most can do completely sober . The plot to The Thin Man hardly matters . These two could make reading the phone book an enjoyable experience . To sum up my ramblings , I love watching Powell and Loy as Nick and Nora . But of course The Thin Man does have a plot ? a murder that Nick wants no part of is literally thrust upon him . Even Nora wants to see him solve the case and , naturally , offers her assistance . There are plenty of suspects ? the dead woman's employer / lover , his kids , his ex-wife , her lover , and a who's who of shady types . In mystery novel drawing room style , Nick gathers everyone together for the big reveal .
An effective , creepy tale	Just when you get all smug and begin thinking there are no really good Gothic horrors left to be seen , someone comes along and releases a film on DVD that challenges your mistaken notions of having seen it all . That's the case with Casa Negra's recent release of The Curse of the Crying Woman . It's got everything a fan of Gothic horror could ask for ? a slow-burn story that allows for atmosphere , women in black flowing dresses , a crazed madman caged in the attic , a dead witch in the cellar , a deformed and brutish henchman , a creepy old castle , and wonderfully beautiful black & white photography . As a fan of films like Mario Bava's Black Sunday , I'm overjoyed to have discovered The Curse of the Crying Woman . The films share more than their central plot points of bringing a long dead witch back to life , director Rafael Baledon seems to have used parts of The Curse of the Crying Woman to pay homage to Bava . The similarities between the first image of the black-haired Selma standing with her Great Danes is so similar to Barbara Steele's introduction in Black Sunday that it cannot be mere coincidence . Although obviously hampered by budget constraints ( again , similar to Bava ) , Baledon nevertheless was able to craft an effective , creepy tale . It's not the jump scare kind of horror ? it's much more subtle than that . It's the kind of movie that , if you allow it to , will get under your skin . It's very well done and new favorite of mine . And I thought all Mexican horror movies featured masked wrestlers battling werewolves and vampires . I can't wait to see what Casa Negra comes out with next .
Amazingly well made	At first glance , it would seem natural to compare Where the Sidewalk Ends with Laura . Both have noirish qualities , both were directed by Otto Preminger , and both star Dana Andrews and Gene Tierney . But that's where most of the comparisons end . Laura dealt with posh , sophisticated people with means who just happen to find themselves mixed-up in a murder . Where the Sidewalk Ends is set in a completely different strata . These are people with barely two nickels to rub together who are more accustomed to seeing the underbelly of society than going to fancy dress parties . Where the Sidewalk ends is a gritty film filled with desperate people who solve their problems with their fists or some other weapon . Small-time hoods are a dime-a-dozen and cops routinely beat confessions out of the crooks . Getting caught-up in a murder investigation seems as natural as breathing . While I haven't seen his entire body of work , based on what I have seen , Dana Andrews gives one of his best performances as the beat-down cop , Det . Sgt . Mark Dixon . He's the kind of cop who is used to roughing up the local hoods if it gets him information or a confession . One night , he goes too far and accidentally kills a man . He does his best to cover it up . But things get complicated when he falls for the dead man's wife , Morgan Taylor ( Tierney ) , whose father becomes suspect number one in the murder case . As Morgan's father means the world to her , Dixon's got to do what he can to clear the old man without implicating himself . Technically , Where the Sidewalk Ends is outstanding . Besides the terrific performance from Andrews , the movie features the always delightful Tierney . She has a quality that can make even the bleakest of moments seem brighter . The rest of the cast is just as solid with Tom Tully as the wrongly accused father being a real standout . Beyond the acting , the direction , sets , lighting , and cinematography are all top-notch . Overall , it's an amazingly well made film . If I have one complaint ( and admittedly it's a very , very minor quibble ) it's that Tierney is almost too perfect for the role and her surroundings . It's a little difficult to believe that a woman like that could find herself mixed-up with some of these unsavory characters . It's not really her fault , it's just the way Tierney comes across . She seems a little too beautiful , polished , and delicate for the part . But , her gentle , kind , trusting nature add a sense of needed realism to her portrayal .
" Do as the legend tells and avoid the moor when the forces of darkness are exalted . "	From what I understand , The Hound of the Baskervilles was to be the first in a series of Sherlock Holmes films from Hammer Film Productions . For whatever reason , the film didn't do what Hammer was expecting and they decided to scrap any further Holmes movies . Too bad , because I really enjoy this version of the famous story and would have enjoyed seeing Hammer take their turn with some of the others . And I would have enjoyed the opportunity to see Peter Cushing again play the famous detective while still in his prime . I can only imagine what might have been . As for the movie itself , Hammer's The Hound of the Baskervilles plays as loose and free with the original story elements as any other I've seen . It doesn't necessarily hurt my enjoyment , but those seeking something that follows the book to the letter would be better off looking elsewhere . Because this is Hammer , the horror aspects of the story are quite naturally highlighted ? and to good effect . Cushing makes a wonderful Holmes . Not only does Cushing act the part , in my mind anyway , he looks the part as well . I often go back and forth about which Holmes ' portrayal I enjoy more ? Cushing or Rathbone . Andre Morrell makes for as good a Dr . Watson as you're likely to find . The rest of the cast , including Christopher Lee and Francis De Wolff , is as solid as any that Hammer ever assembled . I get a real kick out of Miles Malleson's delightfully forgetful Bishop . Finally , and unlike a lot of the more stage-bound Hammer productions , The Hound of the Baskervilles benefits from some excellent location shots . All together , this is one very enjoyable film . If it weren't for Rathbone's The Hound of the Baskervilles , this would be my favorite version of the story ? even with ( or should that be because of ) the numerous deviations from the source material . The Hound of the Baskervilles is also in my top 5 favorite Hammer films as well . A seems about right to me .
Badass form start to finish	For my 1 , 000th user-comment on IMDb , I wanted to write about something that I not only enjoyed , but something that summed up or represented my feelings about and tastes in movies . You know , something that has my name written all over it . I considered a number of films ? some bad ? some good - but in the end , I decided to go with The Inglorious Bastards . Not only is it a great example of the kind of movie I go for , but I've been wanting to write something about it for a while now . And with Tarantino's re-imaging set to open this year , I definitely wanted to get my user comment written beforehand . So here it is , # 1 , 000 . As the film opens , a group of WWII era soldiers are being transferred to a military prison to await decision on the many crimes they've committed . Murder , theft , robbery ? these aren't your typical , clean-cut , all-American GIs . On the way , the MP convoy is attacked by a German plane and a band of five prisoners escapes . They immediately decide to head to neutral Switzerland and the freedom it offers . On the way , they have plenty of opportunities to kill and maim Nazis . But when they accidentally shoot a group of American paratroopers disguised as German soldiers , the Bastards decide to stand in and complete their compatriots ' mission . And what a mission it is ? steal a train carrying a V2 rocket . If director Enzo G . Castellari is known for anything , it's action . And in The Inglorious Bastards , he outdoes himself . It's a testosterone injected ride from start to finish ! Gun battles , explosions , vehicle wrecks , fights , falls off castle walls , motorcycle stunts ? if it involves action , you'll find it here . Castellari somehow manages to keep the film well paced throughout . While the action does admittedly slow a tad in the second act , the film never bogs down and is always enjoyable . The Inglorious Bastards also features some really nice miniature work . The film's finale is especially memorable on that front . The cast is first rate . Fred " the Hammer " Williamson may be third billed , but he's the real star . Williamson's character is appropriately named Fred . Appropriate because he's pretty much playing himself ? a cigar-chomping , one-line spewing , gun-toting badass . Surprising to me is that Bo Svenson is able to match Williamson scene for scene . I've never thought much of his other work that I've seen , but here , Svenson is very believable as the in control leader of the Bastards . The rest of the cast provide equally enjoyable performances . It's an excellent job by all involved . While I can see why The Inglorious Bastards might not appeal to everyone , for me , it's a near perfect movie . I've seen some reviews nit-pick the lack of realism . Relax , this was never intended to be a documentary . It's about having a good time and enjoying yourself . Just go with it and quit being so uptight . As for those who complain about the dialogue or the editing , you're obviously not familiar with Euro movie making from the 60s and 70s . Again , just go with it . Like I said , it's almost perfect to me . In fact , I've got no problem at all rating The Inglorious Bastards a , verging on a . So here's to 1 , 000 user comments . For those of you who have read and maybe even enjoyed some of what I've written , I say thanks . And look forward to more to come . On to 1 , 001 !
" One doesn't easily forget , Herr Baron , an arm torn out by the roots . "	When Baron Wolf von Frankenstein ( Basil Rathbone ) arrives to take over his father's estate , the locals immediately begin to fear for the worst . Wolf's father created a monster that terrorized the community and the townsfolk want no more of that . Wolf assures everyone that he has no intentions of creating a monster . But when Wolf finds Ygor ( Bela Lugosi ) living in the ruins of his father's laboratory , he is soon headed down the same path of destruction that claimed his father . Over the years , there have been volumes written on the Universal classic horror movies . Realizing that it would be foolish of me to attempt to improve or add much to the writings of these scholars , I'll instead focus on a couple of areas that make Son of Frankenstein so special to me . 1 . The Acting . Son of Frankenstein features a Who's Who of the best of the classic horror actors . Joining Rathbone and Lugosi in the cast are Boris Karloff and Lionel Atwill . While each gives a noteworthy performance in their own right , Lugosi's performance is generally held up as the best of his career . And while I agree , Rathbone makes Son of Frankenstein a joy for me to watch . There are very few actors that I can think of who could have played Wolf with the same type of intelligent energy that Rathbone exhibits . He's wonderful . As for Karloff , I'm glad he decided to make Son of Frankenstein his last as the monster . By the time of the second sequel , Karloff's monster became little more that a prop for Lugosi , Rathbone , and Atwill to fight over . 2 . The Sets . I'm not exaggerating when I say that the sets in Son of Frankenstein are among the best I've ever seen . The sets are amazing with their bizarre angles and shadows . Two that immediately come to mind are the dining table set and the staircase set at the beginning of the movie . They are in a class of their own . Every fan of horror , or just good classic movies in general , owes it to themselves to see Son of Frankenstein . It may not be as well known among the casual fan as either Frankenstein or Bride of Frankenstein , but it many ways it's the equal of those two films ( if not better ) .
" Come on , let's get something to eat . I'm thirsty . "	Nora's cousin Selma asks Nick to help her find her missing husband , Robert Landis . In short order , Nick and Nora spot the husband in a nightclub with another woman . Before you can say Asta , Robert is dead . Instead of a missing husband , Nick's got a murder case to solve . And there are plenty of suspects , each with a motive and ample opportunity . Naturally , the police turn their attention to Selma and arrest her in short order . Now Nick's the task of saving his wife's cousin . This may be my favorite movie in the series . By the time After the Thin Man was made , William Powell and Myrna Loy had really grown into their characters . Powell and Loy exhibit undeniably natural charisma and charm . Their back and forth dialogue is as good as it gets in one of these movies . The supporting cast in After the Thin Man is also especially strong . While most fans would point to Jimmy Stewart in an early role , other members of the cast who shine include Jesse Ralph as the overly domineering Aunt Katherine and George Zucco as the mysterious Dr . Adolph Kammer . The mystery in After the Thin Man may be the most complete and thought out of the series . Being one of the first three movies Thin Man movies , After the Thin Man benefits from a story written by Dashiell Hammett . It's an ingenious story with plenty of suspense and a few nice twists . If I have one complaint with After the Thin Man it's the " cheat " that Nick uses at the end of the movie to solve the mystery . It's a " cheat " because the audience has no way of knowing the vital piece of information introduced at the last possible moment that's necessary to identify the killer . It may seem like a small point , but for those playing along with the characters , it hurts what is an otherwise very enjoyable film .
" When you have to shoot , shoot , don't talk . "	I know some movie fans who consider The Good , the Bad and the Ugly the best movie ever made . While I don't even think it's the best thing Sergio Leone made , it's a solid Spaghetti Western that has all but transcended the sub-genre . There are images , such as Clint Eastwood in the poncho , and music , like the main title theme , that are known by people who have never seen the movie . I also know people who wouldn't be caught dead watching a movie made outside of the USA who love The Good , the Bad and the Ugly . I can't think of another Italian made film , let alone an Italian made Western , that has become so universally known and enjoyed . There are so many moments in The Good , the Bad and the Ugly that I enjoy . One of my favorites is that of Tuco running through the cemetery as Morricone's " The Ecstasy of Gold " plays in the background . It literally gives me goosebumps . It's one of those movie moments that I look forward to no matter how many times I've seen them . I'm also a fan of the techniques Leone used in The Good , the Bad and the Ugly . Leone's use of the widescreen shots of the landscape inter-cut with extreme close-ups of faces is brilliant . It adds a sense of intimacy to vastness of the setting that allows the viewer feel like they're part the movie and gain some insight into the characters . It's a technique that very few other filmmakers have the guts to employ . But I sincerely doubt that Leone's film would be so widely and wildly regarded if it weren't for the music of Ennio Morricone . I've already mentioned the main title theme and " The Ecstasy of Gold " , but these are only two examples found in this amazing score . Can you imagine the final showdown without Morricone's music ? I can't think of many instances where music and film go together to create such tension and anticipation . I've already used the word " brilliant " to describe Leone , but it's also applicable to Morricone . Finally , The Good , the Bad and the Ugly wouldn't be the same without the three lead actors . Each , at least in this movie , is brilliant ( there's that word again ) in his own right . Clint Eastwood is " The Good " . He's " The Good " in the sense that he's not as " bad " as the other two . Lee Van Cleef is " The Bad " . He's a ruthless killer who would just as soon shoot you as look at you ? as long as the price was right . And then there's Eli Wallach as " The Ugly " . As good as Eastwood and Van Cleef are , Wallach is really something special . Wallach's Tuco is one of the most crazed , but complicated characters I've seen . It's a special cast for a very special movie .
" I am Dracula and I welcome you to my house . "	When Hammer began their horror cycle in the 50s , they were smart to begin with what are essentially remakes of two of Universal's most well known and successful films ? Frankenstein and Dracula . Hammer may have started the ball rolling with The Curse of Frankenstein , but to me , Hammer's second , The Horror of Dracula , is the best movie Hammer made and a vast improvement over Universal's iconic Dracula . Why do I call The Horror of Dracula Hammer's best and an improvement Universal's film ? Three things immediately come to mind ? Christopher Lee , Peter Cushing , and the screenplay and direction . While Bela Lugosi may be a more familiar face to the average movie fan , I've always felt that Lee took what Lugosi did and improved on it . The image of Lee with his bloodshot eyes and bared , bloody fangs is a more frightening visage to me than Lugosi's stare . Lee brought athleticism and vitality to the role . He made Dracula a real physical threat . In short , he made Dracula threatening . As with Lee vs . Lugosi , Peter Cushing is an improvement over Edward Van Sloan in the role of Van Helsing . The difference is that here the improvement is more apparent and undeniable . Face it , Sloan was a stiff . As interesting as some of his characters ideas may have been , I could never picture the man doing any real battle with a vampire . Cushing , on the other hand , is a whirlwind of activity . He has the same interesting ideas about vampire folklore , but with a physical presence that can actually stand-up to Dracula . In short , Cushing simply is Van Helsing . Finally , I enjoy the screenplay and direction of The Horror of Dracula more than that of Dracula . Why ? Too much of Dracula seems stage-bound . Everything and everyone seems confined to whatever set they happen to be on . It also doesn't help that much of the direction in Dracula is of the " plant and shoot " variety . I realize that this was the case with many early films , but that doesn't mean I like it . In The Horror of Dracula , characters don't feel as confined . Terence Fisher gives the actors the freedom to move . You get the impression that the characters come and go at will . It may be an unfair comparison for movies made some 27 years apart , but this has always been one of my biggest complaints with Dracula . ( For the record , I don't have this problem with most of Universal's other classic films like Frankenstein or The Invisible Man , to give just two examples . ) Hammer made many horror films over the years that I consider to be among my favorites . But none equal The Horror of Dracula . I realize that all I've done here is compare two different versions of the same story , but the comparisons are the best way I can think of to express what I like about Hammer's film . In this day and age of bad horror remakes , it's a little odd to me that my favorite Hammer film is a remake .
" Room filled with empty people . "	There are three movies that , for whatever reason , I have watched literally 100s of times . Murder By Death is one of the three movies . The great thing is that I never get tired of it . It never gets old with me . The comedy is as fresh today as it was in 1976 when I saw Murder By Death in the theater . I think the movie appeals to me because I grew up reading Agatha Christie and watching Charlie Chan on The Late Show . Later , when I discovered the Humphrey Bogart movies and the Thin Man movies , I became an instant fan . I get a real kick out watching Neil Simon poke fun at the characters from these books and movies . The screenplay is clever , intelligent , and , most importantly , funny . I all but laugh out loud every time I watch the " dead , naked butler " bit or listen to Peter Selles arguing with the " cow " on the wall . It's good stuff ! In addition to Simon's writing , the acting in Murder By Death is a real highlight . The cast is a Who's Who of some of the best actors of the 60s and 70s . David Niven , Peter Sellers , Alec Guinness , Peter Falk , and every other member of the cast ( including the usually annoying James Coco ) are all wonderful . Their parodies of the famous detectives are dead-on perfect . But the best , in my opinion , is Maggie Smith . It's amazing that in a group of such renowned actors , Smith is able to steal almost every scene and become the center of attention . She is simply amazing in Murder By Death . I could watch her all day . So , here's to another 100 viewings of Murder By Death ! I can't get enough of it .
Argento : The Master of the Giallo	During a demonstration of her psychic ability , a woman senses the presence of a killer in the audience . Later that night , she is attacked and brutally murdered in her apartment . Marcus Daly ( David Hemmings ) witnesses the murder of the psychic and goes to the apartment to help / investigate . He later tells the police that he saw something when he entered the apartment , but he's not sure what it was . With the assistance of a female reporter , Daly begins looking for clues to the killer's identity . As he gets closer to the truth , the body count begins to rise . Can he remember what he saw in the apartment and stop the killer before he becomes the next victim ? With Deep Red , Dario Argento created what may be the best Giallo ever produced . Mario Bava may be credited with developing the rules and structure of the Giallo in Blood and Black Lace , but Argento succeeded in making the sub-genre his own . Everything about the movie is nearly perfect . And Argento does something that quite honestly few Gialli have accomplished ? actually create moments of real horror ( or at least a few chills ) . The scenes where Daly is investigating the rundown , rambling villa has some moments that always bring me to edge of my seat . As for the mystery , Deep Red features what I feel is one of Argento's best plots . And the fact that Argento gives you everything you need to solve the mystery will leave you kicking yourself for not seeing all of the significant clues . Argento takes a big chance by giving the solution so early on , it's just that no one seems to pick-up on it during a first viewing . Brilliant ! There are two different versions of this movie available ? the original extended version and the cut American version . This is one of the very few movies I know of where people I respect actually prefer the cut version . Either version is watchable so it's really just a matter of taste . For the record , I prefer the extended version . Whichever cut of the film you select , make sure to watch in widescreen . There's a lot of vital information that's cut from the sides of the full-frame transfer .
" I was gonna get a flat bottom but the girl at the boat house didn't have one . "	While I enjoy almost everything the Marx Brothers made ( Love Happy being the exception ) , Horse Feathers is a particularly good example of their comedy . The plot , such as it is , has Professor Quincy Adams Wagstaff ( Groucho ) becoming the president of Huxley College . Being more interested in football than academics , Prof . Wagstaff lures two would be football players ( Chico and Harpo ) from the local speakeasy to play for his team . The boys set about beating their arch-rival with their unique brand of football . In reality , the plot is little more than a device used to string together a series of some of the Marx Brothers ' best gags . The Swordfish scene at the speakeasy and the Introduction of Wagstaff scene are two of my favorites . The boys were at the top of their game in 1932 . The comedy was fresh , irreverent , risqu , and hilarious . If you're a fan , you'll note a few bits that were recycled in later Marx Brothers ' films . And , if you're a fan , Horse Feathers is one that shouldn't be missed .
Pam Grier = Awesome	- Jackie Brown ( Pam Grier ) is a flight attendant who gets busted when returning from Mexico with cash and cocaine . She works out a deal with the police to help them catch her boss , Ordell Robbie ( Samuel L . Jackson ) in return from her freedom . Ordell has $500 , 000 in Mexico that Jackie is to bring to him . But there are a lot of people who want that money - the police , Ordell , Ordell's girlfriend , and even Jackie . Who is going to scam who to get their hands on the money ? - Until I saw Jackie Brown , I had a hard time believing that any Tarantino film could top Kill Bill . Now , I'm not so sure . I need to revisit Kill Bill to be sure . Jackie Brown is a more " grown-up " film than most of his other works . It doesn't try as hard to be cool like Pulp Fiction and it doesn't try to be as violent as Kill Bill . Oh , the coolness and violence is there , but Jackie Brown is more about the story and characters than either of those films . It's a more subdued film that is a nice change of pace from what I had expected from Tarantino . - For me , Jackie Brown works because of two things - a good script and excellent acting . I'll start with the script . Tarantino may be one of the most self-absorbed jerks on the planet , but he certainly can write a script . The characters in Jackie Brown talk like real people . They're not like a lot of movie characters that seem so unreal you are unable imagine beyond the confines of the movie . These people are smart , clever , and capable of showing real emotion . It doesn't hurt any that Tarantino had good source material in the form of Elmore Leonard's Rum Punch . - As for the acting , Pam Grier is AWESOME . I've seen a few of her movies from the 70s , but now I'm inspired to track them all down . She's cool , tough , vulnerable , and afraid - all at the same time . Kudos to Tarantino for taking a chance on an actress without the big Hollywood name . When you add Robert De Niro , Samuel L . Jackson , Robert Forster , Michael Keaton , Bridget Fonda , and the rest , you've got an all-star cast that , for once , lives up to the hype . - Another thing I've always enjoyed about Tarantino's movies is the music . The soundtrack to Jackie Brown may be the best .
" And it's gonna get a hell of a lot worse before it gets any better ! "	- A helicopter chases a husky across the frozen landscape of Antarctica . The two Norwegians chasing the dog seem intent on killing it . The dog makes a bee-line for the American science station in what appears to be an attempt to seek safety . But is that really the dog's purpose ? The Americans discover the dog's true mission only after it's too late . - I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I hadn't seen The Thing since its initial theatrical run . Because so much of the movie had slowly slipped from my memory , I have never placed it on a " favorites " list ( until now ) . In fact , I had forgotten more of the movie than I remembered . I can promise that I won't wait another 23 years for my third viewing . The Thing is a no-holds-barred journey though some of the best that sci-fi , horror , and action have to offer . The movie never lets up and rarely gives the viewer a chance to catch a breath . - If you haven't seen this movie in a while ( as I hadn't ) , the special effects will surely have stuck with you . They're gross , disturbing , and an excellent argument against the overuse of CGI in horror movies . Rob Bottin should have won an Academy Award for his special effects work on The Thing . - But it takes more than effects and gore to make a " good " movie . It's the interaction between the characters and their real feelings of mistrust that elevates The Thing to the lofty status it has achieved . These are men who have worked together in extremely close quarters with little outside contact . Trust is important in this kind of atmosphere . But when it becomes clear that there may be a problem with various members of the group , they're quick to turn on one another to save their own necks . The paranoia is fascinating to watch . - As far as I'm concerned , The Thing's ending is perfect . Too many movies attempt to spoon-feed viewers the answer to every question raised in the movie . The Thing leaves you with as many questions as it does answers . Good call , Carpenter ! - I only have one minor quibble with the movie and it's based as much on my recent viewing of The Thing from Another World as anything . Try as I might , I can't help compare the two movies . I would have really appreciated a better opportunity in The Thing to get to know who these men are . The characters can be described as paper thin . The 1951 movie was more character driven , and as a result , I cared more for the characters .
Peckinpah and Oates - A Winning Team	From IMDb , " A family scandal causes a wealthy and powerful Mexican rancher to make the pronouncement - - ' Bring me the head of Alfredo Garcia ! ' Two of the bounty-hunters thus dispatched encounter a local piano-player in their hunt for information . The piano-player does a little investigating on his own and finds out that his girlfriend knows of Garcia's death and last resting place . Thinking that he can make some easy money and gain financial security for he and his ( now ) fiance , they set off on this goal . Of course , this quest only brings him untold misery , in the form of trademark Peckinpah violence . " In general , I do not enjoy depressing movies . Life is tough enough without having to watch how bad someone else has it . Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia is no ordinary Hollywood movie where everything is okay in the end . There is no " happily ever after " . This is dirty , depressing , and uncompromising . With Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Gardia , Peckinpah created one of his most violent and unforgettable films . Watching Warren Oates character Bennie is a lot like watching a car crash . It's all but impossible to look the other way . It's truly an outstanding performance by Oates . In fact , I'll go so far as to say it might be the single best piece of acting I've ever seen .
Another example of Argento's genius	- Plot : ( As written on IMDb ) Tenebre follows a writer who arrives to Rome only to find somebody is using his novels as the inspiration ( and , occasionally , the means ) of committing murder . As the death toll mounts the police are ever baffled , and the writer becomes more closely linked to the case than is comfortable . - Tenebre is certainly one of Argento's best films . Even though I've seen it before , it has lost none of its impact on me . Tenebre includes some wonderful examples of Argento's visual flair . While not as bold as Suspiria , it's a feast for the eyes . If you've seen it , have you noticed that almost every victim is wearing white ? Why ? Could it be that the red blood makes more of a visual impact on the white background . Tenebre also includes some of Argento's most suspense filled moments . The scene where the girl is chased by the dog only to end up seeking refuge in the killer's house is a genuine nail-biter . - If you've never seen a giallo or an Argento film , I highly recommend Tenebre as a jumping off point .
One of the best	Desiring to learn the secrets of Dr . Quest's latest invention , the para-power ray gun , Dr . Zin sends a robot spy to check it out . Dr . Zin's unmanned ship lands near the Quest compound . Upon investigation , Dr . Quest and Race find a mysterious orb . They place it in a storage building for latter examination and go about their usual nightly routine . But , as they will soon discover , the mysterious orb is far from routine . Even if you are only familiar with Jonny Quest on the most casual of levels , I'm confident that The Robot Spy would likely be the episode that most people would recognize . The image of the giant , indestructible , spider-legged mechanical creature is an iconic memory for many of us who grew up in the 60s . It's even prominently featured in the opening credits . Beyond the images , The Robot Spy's status as one of the best Jonny Quest episodes is well deserved . There's plenty of action , mystery , and suspense - what more could you ask for ? The first time the robot hits a guard with one of the tentacles - wow ! How cool was that ? I enjoyed this episode as a child and still find it entertaining . I'm not sure at this point whether it's my favorite episode or not , I'll have to get through the other 18 or so episodes to make that call . But I have no doubt that it will end up in my top five .
Nothing says " Merry Christmas " like the rat-chewed body of Santa Claus !	What an excellent way to kick-off the Holiday Season ! The wife and I have been making our way through the first three seasons of Bones and so far , " The Santa in the Slush " just might be one of my favorite episodes . In this one , Booth and Brennan are called in to investigate the death of a man they later identify as Kris Kringle . In full Santa regalia , Kringle is found dead , his body decomposing , lying in a sewer . Nothing says " Merry Christmas " like the rat-chewed body of Santa Claus ! There are other episodes of Bones that are more realistic , that take their subject matter more seriously , and that toy more with the emotions of the viewer ? but there are few that are this much fun . A lot of the usual drama is pushed to the side in favor of a more comedic tone ? and with excellent results . Don't misunderstand , I realize there is a touch of comedy in almost every episode , but here it takes center stage . And just the notion of a temp agency specializing in Santas and Elves is hysterical . The interplay between Bones and Booth was never better . The subplots dealing with Bones ' attempt to give her father his dream Christmas in jail and Booth's desire to spend the Holiday with his son add just the right touch of humanity without ever becoming schmaltzy . Altogether , this is one fine episode of a wonderful show . A seems right to me .
" Today people want sensationalism ; the more you rape their senses the happier they are . "	Going into a film like Cannibal Holocaust , it's difficult to know what to expect . Anyone who has any interest has read all the hype ? the most disturbing movie ever made , banned in 60 countries , real animal killings , director Ruggero Deodato had to go to court to prove the human killings weren't real , etc . What I didn't expect to discover was such a well-made film . Parts of the film are indeed very brutal and , at times , difficult to watch . There are images in the film that I won't soon forget . The story is incredibly compelling because it is so real . Tribes of Indians similar to the ones presented in this film did ( and in some cases do ) exist in the South American rain forests . I suppose that if someone were looking for a " deep " meaning to Deodato's film , they might point to the man vs . nature aspects of the film where nature is represented not just by the animals , but by the natives as well . I suppose one could find something in the notion of who the real savages are ? the natives or the filmmakers who exploit them . But the most amazing thing about Cannibal Holocaust is that somehow Deodato has made it very beautiful .
" Mr . Holmes , you're the one man in all England who can help me . "	Of the half dozen or so different takes on The Hound of the Baskervilles that I've seen , this one is my favorite - just barely edging out the Hammer film from 1959 . Why ? There are a number of reasons I could cite . 1 . Acting ? The 1939 version of the Hound of the Baskervilles has to have one of the strongest casts ever assembled for a Sherlock Holmes film . It's a veritable Who's Who of 1930s / 40s horror / thriller stars . Basil Rathbone , Lionel Atwill , John Carradine , Wendy Barrie , and Eily Malyon all give outstanding performances . Even E . E . Clive appears in a small but enjoyable role . And Nigel Bruce , whose bumbling Watson could really get on my nerves , gives one of his best performances as Holmes ' sidekick . 2 . Atmosphere ? If there's something that filmmakers from the 1930s knew how to do and were especially adept at , its creating atmosphere . From the fog shrouded moors to the dangerous London streets , there's enough atmosphere in The Hound of the Baskervilles for two or three movies . The cinematography and lighting go along way to helping create this feeling . It's something that seems lost on many of today's filmmakers . 3 . Direction ? While nothing outstanding , Sidney Lanfield is nonetheless solid in the director's chair . One key is the pacing he gives to the film . The movie moves along quite nicely with very few moments that slow things down . Sure , this version of The Hound of the Baskervilles may veer away from the original source material , but it's for good reason . The film would have been too slow and , ultimately , quite dull had it stuck too closely to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's work . I've read the book , but as much as I enjoy it , I realize changes have to be made for the screen . While there are a number of other things I could mention in The Hound of the Baskervilles that appeal to me , I'll stop here before this thing gets out of hand . In the end , I've always found this a solid production and a very enjoyable film . I've got no problems rating it a . Finally , one thing that has always seemed odd to me is the appeal of The Hound of the Baskervilles . Don't misunderstand , it's a good story . But I'm not sure I understand why it has been filmed more often than any other Sherlock Holmes story . Why would a plot that has its main character ( Holmes in this case ) disappear for about half the movie be the most famous and most often filmed story from the character's casebook ? Like I said , it's just always seemed a bit odd to me .
" What's the matter , kid ? Don't ya like clowns ? "	- These days , it takes something that I think is going to be really special to get me to go to the theater . From everything I had heard and read , The Devil's Rejects seemed like that kind of movie . Plus , I'm one of those who loved Rob Zombie's first movie , House of 1000 Corpses . So I went in with high expectations . Usually when you do this , you come away disappointed . Not only was The Devil's Rejects everything I had hoped it would be , it far exceeded even my lofty expectations . It's a balls-to-the-wall , butt-kicking , good time . - Everything about the movie was spot on . Zombie put everything in the movie that I wanted . It's gritty , brutal , sadistic , and one helluva fun ride . Sid Haig , Bill Mosely , and Sheri Moon ARE their characters . It was easy for me to forget that I was watching actors . And Sid simply steals every scene in which he appears . It's not to say that Mosely and Moon aren't good , but next to Sid it's tough to compete . The characters have gone through some changes since House of 1000 Corpses . If it's possible , they have a darker edge to them . - I could literally write pages on everything that worked for me in the film . I could discuss the excellent supporting cast or the choice of music or some of the great set pieces or the sick , violent action or Zombie's growth as a director , but I'll just mention one of my favorite moments - the ending . Without giving too much away , the final face-off between our favorite serial killers and the police is one of the coolest moments ever put on film . I was immediately reminded of movies like The Wild Bunch and its nihilistic ending . It's a film moment that I'll never forget . - I , for one , can't wait to see what Rob Zombie does next .
Very Interesting	If you are a fan of the movie Suspiria , you absolutely owe it to yourself to get hold of AB's three disc limited edition . Not only does it include the movie ( I believe it's the same transfer used on the single disc edition ) , the soundtrack and this documentary are part of the package . The documentary is wonderful . Many of those who had a significant role in the making of the movie provide interesting stories about their memories of Suspiria and how it was put together . My favorite parts were the interviews with Cinematographor Luciano Tovoli and star Jessica Harper . Tovoli provides some great background into how the movie was filmed , including the use of Technicolor to get those incredibly vibrant colors for which Suspiria is so famous . As Harper is the only American to appear in the documentary , I found it particularly insightful to hear her impressions of working with Argento and in Italy at such a young age . If I have one complaint , it's that Suspiria 25th Anniversary is too short . Suspiria is the kind of movie that I could listen to stories about the making of for hours . Instead of 52 minutes , I wish it could have been 152 minutes .
Heaven and Hell	Having just been crucified by Roman soldiers , Xena and Gabrielle find themselves surrounded by angels and headed to Heaven . But before they can arrive , they are attacked by demons from Hell lead by their nemesis Callisto . While Xena makes it safely to Heaven , Gabrielle is taken to the depths of Hell . For Xena , spending an eternity in Heaven without Gabrielle is just unacceptable . She rallies the archangels to her cause and sets out to save her friend . But what price is Xena willing to pay for Gabrielle's soul ? Talk about your epic battles of Good vs . Evil . It doesn't get much bigger than a band of archangels doing battle with demons from Hell . And even when you consider all the places and things that Xena and Gabrielle experienced through the entire run of Xena : Warrior Princess , a struggle between Heaven and Hell is still groundbreaking stuff . Given that Xena was made with a modest television budget , the special effects in this particular episode are quite good . Sure , there are a few moments when the CGI starts to resemble a video game , but again , we're talking about an episode of a television show . I really enjoyed the acting in " Fallen Angel " . All three actresses ( Lucy Lawless , Renee O'Connor , and Hudson Leick ) seemed to " get into " their chance to play a demon . And what about that ending ? Callisto was always one of my favorite characters , but even I realized that it was time for her to go . Her redemption and salvation are a highpoint of the entire series . Overall , " Fallen Angel " is probably ten or so favorite episodes of Xena : Warrior Princess .
One of my favorite episodes	Not having seen " A Day in the Life " since it initially aired in 1997 , I was happy to finally see it again recently as I waded through the Season 2 DVD set . Looking around the internet , this episode appears to be either one of the most loved or most hated episodes depending on which side of the fence you fall . There's not much middle ground . I would place somewhere in my top five favorite episodes . Before " A Day in the Life " , I caught Xena from time to time , but it was no big deal . This is the episode that made me one of those can't - wait - until - Sunday - night - for - the - new - episode kind of fans . " A Day in the Life " stands out as being unusual when compared with most of the other Xena episodes . The action and fighting are relegated to a sub-plot . As the name implies , " A Day in the Life " focuses on the everyday lives of Xena and Gabrielle . Everyday tasks like sleeping , cooking , and even going to the bathroom take center stage . To give it a more natural look , hand held camera are used to get that reality TV look . Little things like Gabrielle fussing about a bent frying pan or Xena and Gabrielle kicking each other as they walk down a path or Xena catching fish for a meal make you feel like you've gotten some insight to what makes these characters tick . It's different , it's funny , and it's one of my favorites .
" Oh ! Never have I seen such a reptile in a first class cabin ! "	Growing up , I was a huge fan of Agatha Christie's books . I would read and reread everyone I could get my hands on . I remember being terribly excited when Death on the Nile was released in 1978 . The movie quickly became a favorite of mine that I've watched literally hundreds of times over the years without ever growing tired of it . I still find new things to enjoy with each viewing . The movie has lost none of its entertainment value on me . For me , there are two areas where Death on the Nile really excels ? Christie's story and the acting . Death on the Nile follows the basic plot structure Christie used over and over ? a group of people is isolated on a boat , train , old house , island , etc . A murder soon follows that only one of these people could have committed . Everyone is a suspect . Each character has a motive and the opportunity to have committed the murder . Death on the Nile is one of the best examples of this plot structure that Christie wrote . Unlike other mysteries , Death on the Nile does not cheat . There are no characters introduced in the last minute and there are not vital clues that the detective discovers just before revealing the murderer . It's played straight . Everything that Christie's detective Poirot knows , the viewer also knows . It's just that most of us would never put the clues together in the same manner Poirot does . As for the acting , Death on the Nile features a wonderful cast . While my personal favorites are Maggie Smith , Angela Lansbury , and Bette Davis , everyone in the cast gives a terrific performance . It may be something as simple as the look Davis gives when some Egyptian children " moon " her from the shore or it may be something as elaborate as Lansbury's over-the-top portrayal of the over-sexed writer , each character is played to perfection . In short , the acting is first rate . Two complaints I've read across the internet involve the perceived padding of the script and characters that aren't well rounded . The padding argument usually concerns shot after shot of Egyptian locations without much happening . Maybe it's just me , but I enjoy the scenery . Plus , I am usually having such a good time with the film that I don't want any of it to rush by . As for the characters , while it is a valid argument , I understand that it's the way Christie wrote . Most of her characters were simply there to be suspects . The rest of their lives didn't matter . I must confess that I too would have liked to see a little more dimension and depth added to some of these fascinating people . It's my only complaint .
I loved it !	Two weeks ago , I had never even heard of Big Deal on Madonna Street . Now I consider it one of the very best , most enjoyable films I've ever seen . I loved it ! The movie is essentially a spoof of the many Italian ( and I like to think other European ) heist films so common in the 1950s . Director Mario Monicelli and the many credited screenwriters nail the essence ( and absurdity ) of the genre perfectly . I actually found myself laughing out loud on more than one occasion - and that's quite the accomplishment . While watching Big Deal on Madonna Street , I kept picturing the film Rififi in my mind and replacing the hardened , serious criminals in that movie with this bunch of misfits . It's pure genius . Fans of European heist films owe it to themselves to check out this movie . Other than the comedy , the acting is the highlight of the movie . Vittorio Gassman , Marcello Mastroianni , Memmo Carotenuto , Renato Salvatori and the rest seem to perform effortlessly . It's a joy to watch such a talented cast . My only complaint with Big Deal on Madonna Street ( and the only reason I didn't rate it a ) is the way Claudia Cardinale's character is used . More Cardinale is always a good thing .
Another wonderful Bava film	Black Sabbath is an anthology from the Italian horror master , Mario Bava . Throughout the film , his trademark use of lighting and unique camera work are evident . Truly impressive . The first story , " The Telephone " , is a basic thriller and , IMO , the weakest of the three stories . Most everything that happens is fairly predictable . But , Bava's direction makes an ordinary story very entertaining . Also , Michle Mercier is a knockout and makes this segment worth watching . I'll give the first segment an . Most people seem to think that the second story , " The Wurdalak " , is the best . I'm in agreement . This segment could have easily been fleshed-out into a feature length movie of its own . Boris Karloff , Mark Damon , Susy Andersen , and the rest of the cast do a wonderful job . Karloff is as creepy as ever in this tale . And Bava is at his best . Many of the scenes are bathed in a wonderful blue / green light that adds so much to the overall atmosphere . Wonderful set locations are also a highlight of this story . I'm also a sucker for the more Gothic settings in " The Wurdalak " . I'll give the second segment a . The third segment , " The Drop of Water " , actually had more elements to freak me out than the other two . There is just something about this segment that creeps me out every time I see it . Again , Bava's fingerprints are on every detail of this story . The flashing blue / green light becomes more and more frightening as the movie progresses . I'll give the third segment a . Bava really does a masterful job with all three segments of this anthology . For anyone not familiar with Bava , IMO , this would be a good place to start .
" The wind blows so hard the ocean gets up on its hind legs and walks right across the land . "	There may be other Bogart / Huston collaborations that are better known and it may not be the first movie people think of when Bogart / Bacall are mentioned , but Key Largo is a fine movie in its own right . Bogart is an Army Captain visiting the wife and father of one of the dead soldiers who served under him . The wife and father run a little hotel on Key Largo . Bogart's not the only guest at the hotel , though . A group of gangsters has decided to hold up there for a while . But the gangsters aren't the only threat to Bogart and the others . A hurricane is blowing on shore that threatens everyone - even the guys with the guns . Bogart and Bacall are good as ever . Lionel Barrymore is a pleasure to watch . And Claire Trevor's Academy Award was deserving . But I want to spend the rest of this review discussing Edward G . Robinson's performance . Robinson has never been a particular favorite of mine . But , it's difficult not to enjoy him in Key Largo . To be a man of such slight stature , on screen he comes across like a giant . His character , Johnny Rocco , dominates almost every scene - even scenes he's not in . Before we meet Rocco , he's already on of the biggest characters in the movie . All his hired stooges have to do is point to the bedroom door and say something like " He's in there , taking a nap " and Rocco immediately becomes the most important person in the movie . Robinson is amazing to watch as he demonstrates his dominance by threatening everyone ( even his own men ) . But Robinson saves the best for last . As the hurricane hits , he changes and becomes like a frightened child . That Robinson was capable of playing the heavy so convincingly in one scene and the weakling so perfectly in the next is evidence of his wonderful abilities . It's really a joy to behold .
" You think I don't know the difference between a wolf and a man ? "	The Wolf Man is one of the most iconic figures of horror . Volumes have been written on Lon Chaney's Larry Talbot , so there's not much more for me to add . I'll just say that I find Talbot's attitude toward his fate in The Wolf Man refreshing . It's not until the later sequels that I find Talbot's continued and repeated bemoaning of his condition tiresome . Unlike other movie " monsters " , he doesn't desire or relish the idea of killing . Just compare Talbot with some of the other movie " monsters " of the period . Take Dracula for instance . He relished the idea of drinking blood and had absolutely no qualms about killing . Dr . Frankenstein , while a tragic figure in his own right , was responsible for his fate and knew exactly what he was doing . Karloff's I'm-Ho-Tep is a being that doesn't mind committing murder to get what he wants . In comparison , Talbot is a victim and a very tragic character . It makes the character more human and , therefore , easier to feel sympathy for . The cast of The Wolf Man may actually be one of the best that Universal ever assembled . The acting is first-rate . In fact , the iconic Chaney may be the weak link . Evelyn Ankers is solid as the target of Talbot's affection . Maria Ouspenskaya steals every scene in which she appears with her understated performance . Claude Rains was a four-time Oscar-nominated actor . Bela Lugosi gives a nice , although too brief , performance as the gypsy , Bela . Few movies , horror or otherwise , can boast of a cast like this . Finally , I just love these older movies and their non-CGI effects . It took real makeup and camera craftsmen to change Chaney into a werewolf . The stop motion transformation is almost as effective today as it was in 1941 . And , there's a reason Jack Pierce's makeup from The Wolf Man is so well known ? it works .
A true masterpiece	I feel so inadequate even attempting to discuss this movie . But I'll give it a try . For those who haven't seen Touchez pas au grisbi , it's the story of an aging gangster named Max ( played to perfection by Jean Gabin ) . With the help of his partner Riton ( also played to perfection by Ren Dary ) , Max has just pulled off the biggest caper of his career and is now set to retire . But a few of the other local thugs have other ideas . They kidnap Riton and offer to a trade him for the loot . While that may be the five sentence review of the plot's highlights , the robbery and subsequent kidnapping are hardly what the movie is all about . These are merely devices to push the plot along . Instead , Touchez pas au grisbi is about the never ending friendship between two people . It's about willing to forfeit a fortune if it means saving your best friend . It's about their day-to-day lives , the nightclubs they visit , the women they use , and , in one of the more bizarre moments , even their dental hygiene habits . While it hardly sounds glamorous , it's one of the more compelling movies I've seen recently . Max's life pulled me in to the point that it almost seemed real . Director Jacques Becker lets the viewer really get to know these two guys so that later on when the pair finds themselves in danger , we feel for them . Touchez pas au grisbi may not be action-packed , but when the violence does come , it's jolting in its abruptness . While the shootout near the end of the film is an obvious example , there's a moment earlier on in the movie that shows how abrupt and effective the violence in Touchez pas au grisbi is . Max has located Riton's girlfriend who he believes to be at least partially responsible for Riton's kidnapping . Up to this point , with a few very minor and brief exceptions , Max has hardly seemed capable of excessive violence . Up to this point , he's come across almost as a kindly Grandfather . But when Max confronts the girlfriend , we see what he is capable of . The rough manner in which he handles everyone in the room , including repeatedly slapping the girl to get the information he's after , is quite shocking . It's a scene that's very nicely done . In the end , Touchez pas au grisbi is a true masterpiece that deserves all the accolades it has received . I know it's one of the best movies I've ever seen .
Disturbing	- After the death of her parents , a girl , Justine ( Susana Kamini ) , arrives at a convent hoping to find a new life . She immediately meets Alucarda ( Tina Romero ) . Before long , Alucarda professes her love for Justine and wants to seal their friendship with a blood oath . But the spot the girls select to perform this ceremony is home to evil spirits that take over their bodies . Soon after , the girls express their allegiance to Satan and Alucarda attacks a priest . The girls eventually find themselves the subjects of an exorcism . - Alucarda certainly is a twisted story full of imaginative imagery . Between blood pacts , orgies with Satan , levitating nuns , exorcisms , reanimated dead bodies , and the fiery destruction of the convent , there are very few moments to catch a breath . I found everyone of these moments visually disturbing , yet somehow incredibly beautiful . It's a real contradiction to see a nun floating off the ground covered in blood and think to yourself that it's one of the most beautiful images you've seen in a film . - There are other contradictions within Alucarda that add to its effectiveness . Take Alucarda herself as played by Romero . She is evil and innocent at the same time . It's truly a remarkable performance .
" An intellectual carrot . The mind boggles . "	- On the surface , The Thing from Another World ( The Thing for short ) would appear to be just another of the hundreds of sci-fi / horror films that flooded the market in the 50s . The basic story of the discovery of a UFO near the North Pole with an inhabitant frozen in a block of ice sounds typical for the period . But this film is anything but typical . - There are so many positive things to say about The Thing that narrowing them down to fit into a manageable size review is difficult . Very briefly , some of the things that impress me about The Thing include : the opening title sequence , the wonderful music score , the sets , the amazing kerosene fire scene , the terrific jump scare the first time we see the creature , and the desolate North Pole setting . Everything about the movie is near perfect as far as I'm concerned . - One of the most impressive things to me , however , is the decision to use the creature sparingly throughout the movie . Because we only catch glimpses of the alien , he remains a mystery and , as a result , more frightening . I don't know if this is the case or not as I've never heard John Carpenter speak on the subject , but as I watched the movie last night , I couldn't help be think of Carpenter's decision to use The Thing in his movie , Halloween . Surely it wasn't a coincidence ( or a cheap plug for his upcoming remake ) . Instead , I've always felt that the way Carpenter used The Shape in Halloween is much like way the creature is used in this movie . I don't know if anyone agrees , but I definitely see similarities . - I can narrow down what makes this film so special to me into two words - Howard Hawks . If you're so inclined , there are any number of articles you can read on the internet about who really directed the movie - Hawks or Nyby . I don't know and I don't care , but it's easy to see Hawks ' fingerprints all over The Thing . The most obvious example is the whole dialogue thing . In most of Hawks ' movies I've seen , the dialogue is incredibly intelligent , snappy , and witty . It's part of what makes his movies so much fun . Hawks also had a way of getting actors to sound less like they were reciting lines and more like they were having actual conversations . Actors routinely step all over each others ' lines and interrupt one another just like real people do . If you've ever seen His Girl Friday , you know exactly what I'm talking about . I love it . - I could literally go on and on discussing The Thing from Another World . I haven't even touched on the comparisons with The Day the Earth Stood Still ( released the same year ) or the treatment of the scientists vs . the treatment of the Army or the portrayal of women or the whole Soviet invasion subtext or the " Watch the skies " speech or . . . you get the idea . It's truly a remarkable movie .
" He went for a little walk ! "	- Throughout the great length of his career , Boris Karloff played a number of horror cinema's most memorable characters . But I've always been of the opinion that his work in Universal's The Mummy is his best . - The story in The Mummy is , in many respects , almost identical to Universal's earlier Dracula movie . Exchange a mummy for a vampire and Cairo for Transylvania and the rest is quite comparable . Both movies are basically love stories - regardless of how twisted the " love " may seem . Ardath Bay's sole purpose in life ( or should that be afterlife ) is to resurrect the spirit of his long dead love , Princess Anckesen-Amon . His 3 , 000 year obsession and devotion is demonstrated in the line , " Anckesen-Amon , my love has lasted longer than the temple of our gods . No man ever suffered as I did for you . " The response he receives a few scenes later , " No . No , I'm alive . I'm young . I won't die . I loved you once , but now you belong with the dead . I am Anckesen-Amon , but I'm somebody else too . I want to live , even in this strange new world " , is heartbreaking . - Other obvious and less obvious examples of how the two movies are similar include : the use of religious symbols to repel the monsters , the use of hypnosis , the close-up shots of the eyes , and cast members who play basically the same roles ( Edward Van Sloan and David Manners appear in both films in almost identical roles ) . Finally , a similarity that I've always noticed that I've not read anywhere else concerns the Renfield character from Dracula and poor Ralph Norton in The Mummy . Both become stark-raving , hysterical-laughing , mad lunatics . And whether intentional or not , both assist their respective monsters with their plans ? Renfield by actively helping Dracula and Norton by accidentally bringing the mummy back to life . - Karloff is perfect as Imhotep / Ardath Bay . I've said a number of times that Karloff was born to play this role . His slim , long body looks like what I imagine a mummy might look like after 3 , 000 years in the hot , drying desert . Karloff's face , with the help of Jack Pierce's make-up , looks like it would turn to dust at the slightest touch . And , as most would agree , Karloff's voice has an otherworldly quality that sounds as if it were coming from the grave . Karloff's acting abilities also add to the illusion that he is the mummy . Whether his decision or that of director Karl Freund I don't know , but Karloff gives a very understated performance that is necessary if he is to be believed . The understated performance without wild , exaggerated movements is perfect for a 3 , 000 year old mummy . His carriage suggests a very fragile being that fears crumbling with any strenuous action . To me , Karloff simply is The Mummy . - Every time I watch The Mummy , I'm amazed at how little screen time Karloff has as Imhotep . To think that he spent 8 hours a day getting the full-body mummy treatment only to appear for a few minutes in the final film ( and never a full body shot ) shows an amazing amount of restraint on the part of Freund . If you're a believer in the " what's not shown is more frightening that what is " theory of horror , you'll appreciate Freund's decision . But the few shots where Imhotep does appear are , for me , the definition of movie magic . I'll never forget the first time I saw The Mummy . The scene where Imhotep slowly opens his eye to reveal for the first time that he is alive immediately became ( and remains ) for me one of the most memorable moments in horror history .
" They used to bring their women here - brazen , lolling creatures in silks and satins . "	With a classic like The Old Dark House , it's all but impossible to come up with something new and unique to say about the film that hasn't already been said a thousand times . I won't even try . Instead , I'll focus on a few of the things that make the film so special to me . First , it's the acting and the characters that bring such life to The Old Dark House and make me want to revisit it time after time . The cast is possibly the finest ensemble gathered for a horror movie in the 30s . Notables such as Charles Laughton , Boris Karloff , Melvyn Douglas , and Gloria Stewart each make the film a joy to watch . Each gives a great performance . But it's Ernest Thesiger that I enjoy the most . His portrayal of the eccentric Horace Femm surpasses , in my mind , his better known role of Dr . Pretorius from Bride of Frankenstein . I realize that this will seem almost blasphemous to some , but it's honestly the way I feel . It's one of the more memorable performances from the early 30s . I'm also a fan of the way James Whale filmed The Old Dark House . A lot of the early talkies feel " stagey " when viewed today . But even though The Old Dark House is in reality " stagey " , it never feels like that . Whale does an admirable job of keeping the action flowing given such a small set to work with . Filming from different angles and keeping the exact size of the set hidden in the shadows add to the feeling of more space than is actually there . It's quite an achievement for a film made over 70 years ago . Finally , and this is more of a personal thing , I've always been a fan of the old , dark house mystery genre . In The Old Dark House , the mystery of the nutty Femm family replaces the more standard murder mystery . I consider The Old Dark House the standard barrier for this kind of movie . A spooky old house with mysterious locked rooms , a raging thunderstorm of epic proportions , a group of stranded travelers , and a family of off-the-wall inhabitants are among the films highlights .
" D - r - a - c . . . "	Even though I consider myself a classic horror fan ( and a fan of the classic Universal horror movies in particular ) , I readily admit that Dracula ( 1931 ) is not among my favorites . In fact , I prefer almost all of the Dracula sequels to the original . And , I consider Son of Dracula the best of the bunch . Why ? I'm prepared to write about three areas in Son of Dracula that work almost perfectly for me : the atmosphere , the mix of genres / styles , and the cast . - Atmosphere ? Son of Dracula positively drips with atmosphere . The misty swamps , the expertly lit interiors , the luscious sets , the eerie music , and Robert Siodmak's direction all contribute to the richness and underlying sense of taboo and dread . One scene that perfectly demonstrates the film's atmosphere is the rise of Dracula from the swamps . The coffin rises from the swamp floor , a vaporous mist comes forth eventually changing into Dracula's solid form , he glides effortlessly across the swamp to meet his mortal love and future wife ? man , you could bath in the atmosphere . - Mix of genres / styles ? Throughout its history , horror has often been combined with other genres or styles of movies . Most obvious are the great number of horror / comedies or horror / sci-fi films you can find . Sometimes , horror is mixed in more unusual ways . For example , there are horror / Westerns and even horror / romance films . Son of Dracula is one of the very few movies that I would call a horror / film noir ( I know that film noir isn't necessarily a genre , but humor me here ) . All the film noir trappings are here . To begin with , Son of Dracula has that look generally associated with film noir . Just take a look at the use of shadows and you'll see what I mean . But a better example is Kay Caldwell as the femme fatal and Dracula , of all people , as her dupe . The way Kay uses Dracula to do what she wants would have made even Phyllis Dietrichson proud . Kay uses Dracula to kill her father so she can get the estate and then tricks him into marriage to gain immortality . Finished with Dracula , he becomes disposable . She turns to old flame Frank Stanley to help her destroy Dracula . In the end , all three ? Kay , Dracula , and Frank ? are either dead or damaged beyond repair . Take away the supernatural elements of the story and you've got a typical 1940s film noir . - The cast ? A lot of people tend to focus on Lon Chaney , Jr . , suitability for the role of Dracula . The criticism is almost always related to Chaney's physical appearance . I'm convinced that some of these people can't get past his size long enough to take a look at his performance . And I've always thought of it as a rock solid performance . Equally mysterious is Louise Allbritton in role of the manipulative Kay . She's fantastic as she winds both Dracula and Frank around her finger . As for Robert Paige as the doomed Frank , he's perfect . He plays the tragic figure so well . Beyond these three , the film also features solid supporting performances from Evelyn Ankers , J . Edward Bromberg , and Frank Craven . All are terrific . Everyone involved in the cast really comes out of Son of Dracula looking good . In the end , I do not hesitate to rate Son of Dracula a . Other than some minor quibbles I have with how quickly Dr . Brewster comes to believe in and accept that Dracula is in their presence , the film is near flawless to me . And it gets better with each successive viewing . Watching tonight , I realized I was enjoying it even more now than ever before . It's a great movie !
" The point is of no return and you've reached it ! "	If you take a look around the internet at all the reviews for Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! you'll undoubtedly see the movie examined from every conceivable angle . You'll see some very learned people going on and on about female empowerment or the impotency of man or other similar topics . Don't worry ? I'm not going there . So leaving behind all the sociological and psychological mumbo-jumbo , Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! is just one cool , wildly entertaining movie . Not plain old cool , but uber-cool . This is trash cinema at its very finest . For me , Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! is about as straight forward as you can get . It's a movie about three women , three cars , six breasts , the desert , and a whole lot of violence . It doesn't get much simpler , or better , than that . There are so many things I want to say about Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! that I don't really know where to begin . I guess I'll start with Russ Meyer . From the opening voice-over narration followed by the three larger than life go-go dancers , Meyer gets Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! off to a kick in the rear sort of start . And he never lets up . Meyer keeps the images and pace coming fast and strong . After watching the movie , I'm amazed at what he was able to do with a budget that was probably less than what I spent on our last family vacation . Meyer uses his camera in a variety of unusual and surprising ways . I doubt I could think of a single angle he didn't use to shoot his three female leads . And Meyer filled the movie with some very interesting , almost ethereal , images . There are some shots of Varla during the race sequence with her hair blowing in the wind as she laughs with the utter delight of the situation that are like works of art . The fact that these close-ups are obviously stage-bound and the car is being rocked by some prop guys only adds to the surreal feeling . I've never seen anything quite like it . Speaking of having never seen anything like it , there's nothing quite like Tura Satana , Haji , or Lori Williams . Once you've seen them , you'll never forget them . I can honestly say I was impressed with all three ? and not just with their obvious physical assets . Each gives a more than serviceable , realistic performance . Of the three , however , Satana stands out . Is there a single scene in which she appears that she does not totally dominate ? From the ample cleavage to the straight jet-black hair to the make-up to the clothes to that man-eater attitude ? she's absolutely mesmerizing . What else impressed me ? Here's the quick list to save some time : the music ( both the jazzy , " loungey " score that runs through most of the movie and The Bostweeds title track ) ; the often unexpected outbursts of violence ; the dialogue ( Tarantino wishes he could write dialogue half this cool ) ; and the whole 60s go-go feel to the movie . It's just about perfect !
Perfection	- I know a lot of people do not agree with me , but other than Sergio Leone's Once Upon a Time in the West , this is , IMO , the finest Spaghetti Western ever made . I have now seen this movie on three different occasions and each time I am struck by the power of the final scene . - The Great Silence is the story of a snowbound Utah town plagued by bounty killers . The phrase " Wanted : Dead or Alive " seems to mean only " Wanted : Dead " . No one has been brought in alive . One day , a stranger arrives . He has been summoned by one member of the community who seeks revenge for the death of her husband . The bounty killers are now the prey of this mute death machine known as Silence . - Loco ( as played by Klaus Kinski ) is one of the meanest , most vile characters to ever appear in film . He tells one grieving widow to bury her dead husband in the snow so he can pick him up later . Other scenes that are not easy to forget include Loco pulling dead bodies out of the snow to strap to the roof of the stage coach so they can be carried to town or Loco dragging people through the snow to get information from them only to shoot them when he learns what he wants . I doubt I've ever rooted so strongly against a film character . - The snow itself is really a character in this movie . It's not often that you see a Western set in the snow . And , when you do , it's only for a few moments and the snow is usually only a few inches deep . Here , the snow is non-stop . There is no escape . And , we're not talking about three or four inches . Try 30 to 40 inches . All of this snow must have provided REAL hardships for everyone involved in the making of the movie . - Earlier , I mentioned the ending of The Great Silence . I stated how powerful I find the ending of the movie . I'm not going to state why I feel this way as I don't want to ruin it for anyone wanting to see the movie , but I will say that is as unlikely an ending to a Western as you'll encounter . The first time I saw The Great Silence , the ending stuck with me for days . And to me , that's the sign of a sure winner .
" You could have dinner with us . . . "	The plot of The Texas Chainsaw massacre is actually quite simple ? A group of young people are traveling across Texas to visit a family grave-site before making their way to a concert . They run into a hitch-hiker and decide to give him a lift . Bad idea ! It no time at all , they realize how crazy their new passenger is . But he's nothing compared with the rest of his family that our band of travelers is soon to encounter . They'll have to fight to stay alive or they'll become victims of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . If you were to ask me about what makes The Texas Chainsaw Massacre a horror classic and such a well remembered film , my answer would be even simpler than the movie's plot . The Texas Chainsaw Massacre has an intensity that few ( if any ) horror movies can match . In a nutshell , that's all there is to it . The intensity comes from the raw , gritty , brutal feel of the movie that , once the family is introduced , does not let up for a moment during the second half of the movie . Another contributing factor to the film's visceral edge is its realism . From the acting to the sets to the lighting , it all has a realistic , almost documentary feel to it as if the horrifying events on screen were actually happening . It is a gut-wrenching experience that never fails to leave me feeling drained . And isn't that the intent of a movie like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ? As far as I'm concerned , this is what horror is all about . I would be remiss if I wrote something on The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and didn't mention Marilyn Burns . Her performance is quite simply amazing . Some argue that all she does in the second half of the movie is scream . Well , have you ever tried to do that ? Have you ever tried to look terrified beyond all imagination for that length of time ? Her only defense mechanism against the terror she faced was to scream and Burns does that to perfection . I have no difficulty at all in proclaiming it one of the ten best performances by a female in a horror movie . She's just that good . I try to restrict the ratings I give out to those movies that I consider to be the best of the best . I want it to mean something . The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is one of the movies I'm quite comfortable in rating a .
" Just call me Wind . "	Sometimes after watching a movie , I'm at a complete loss for words . Sometimes there's just so much I want to write that I'm afraid to even attempt it for fear of leaving things out or not expressing my thoughts as clearly as I would like . That's the case with House of Flying Daggers . The movie is so . . . well , the movie is so perfect that I doubt I could ever do it justice . To say I was overwhelmed by the movie's plot , acting , and direction would be a gross understatement . The plot drew me in from the word " go " . All of the many twists and turns worked flawlessly on me . I couldn't wait to see what would happen next . As for the acting , all three of the main actors were perfect in their roles . It's hard to pick a favorite between Takeshi Kaneshiro , Andy Lau , and Ziyi Zhang ? though I suppose Ziyi Zhang as the blind warrior was the most impressive . This is the first movie by director Yimou Zhang that I've seen , but it won't be the last . Not only does he keep things flowing at a wonderful pace , but he's made a movie that has to be one of the most beautiful works of art I've seen recently . I would love to freeze and print almost every frame of House of Flying Daggers to hang on my walls . Stunning is the word that comes to mind . I'll end here realizing that I'm leaving a lot out like a plot description ( I wouldn't want to ruin a second for someone else ) . To sum it all up , House of Flying Daggers is easily one of the very best movies I've ever seen . A isn't good enough for it .
Superb ! ! !	The House with Laughing Windows is about as close to perfection as I've seen . The movie filled me with an uneasy sense of dread like few movies are capable . The story involves an artist , hired to restore a painting in a church . The more he learns about the paining and the original artist , he becomes obsessed with discovering even more . He receives threatening phone calls telling him to leave . Soon , his only friends in town begin to disappear or worse , die . What's behind the mystery of the painting that scares the locals so ? Anymore of the story would be far too much . The direction and editing in this movie are sublimely perfect . As far as I'm concerned , there is not a wasted scene . Every moment serves to push the plot along at an enjoyable , leisurely pace until the movie just drips with atmosphere and dread . The acting was , for the most part , a notch above the standard Italian fare from this period . And , whoever scouted and found the locations used in this movie should have received some type of award . You couldn't have done any better if you had the money to build the sets from scratch . This movie is an absolute must for fans of Italian horror . I've watched the Region 1 subtitled version . The image is very good and the sound is clear . This DVD features a nice " making of " featurette with the director .
Argento's Masterpiece	- From IMDb : " A young American dancer travels to Europe to join a famous ballet school . As she arrives , the camera turns to another young woman , who appears to be fleeing from the school . She returns to her apartment where she is gruesomely murdered by a hideous creature . Meanwhile , the young American is trying to settle in at the ballet school , but hears strange noises and is troubled by bizarre occurrences . She eventually discovers that the school is merely a front for a much more sinister organization . " - From the moment Suzy ( Jessica Harper ) steps out of the airport at the beginning of the movie , the power of Suspiria is evident . Suspiria is like a Technicolor nightmare . No matter how many times I've seen this movie , I never get tired of it . In fact , I seem to enjoy it more with each subsequent viewing . Very few films have a combination of visuals ( each frame of film is like a painting ) , soundtrack ( few films have a soundtrack that so perfectly compliments the action on screen ) , and story ( I've always found the story to be one of the most compelling aspects ) like Suspiria . In my opinion , this is very nearly the perfect movie . - It is very difficult to make a horror movie that actually frightens . Suspiria has moments that are to me as frightening as any I've seen . The scene that immediately pops to mind is the bathroom scene near the beginning of the movie . The girl in the bathroom hears a noise and looks out the window to investigate . As a viewer , I just knew something was going to happen . The situation and music are a clear indication that this girl is in trouble . But Argento is very patient and allows the tension to build . When nothing immediately happens , you're sure that Argento had been playing a trick on you . All of a sudden - BAM - you see two eyes staring back into the bathroom . I jump out of my seat every time I see that scene . It's really filmed very masterfully . - One complaint I've read on numerous websites concerns the acting . I tend to think a lot of people are confusing bad acting with the whole dubbing process used by Argento and other Italian directors . Suspiria was originally filmed in English with no sound actually recorded . All of the dialogue was added in post production . Why ? Often , these Italian films featured actors who spoke a variety of languages - not necessarily English . During filming , these actors would do their best to phonetically sound out the dialogue . Another persons voice was then often added and matched as good as possible to the lip movements . The lip movements and dialogue are often out of sync and I think some people have a hard time getting past this .
Brilliant performance by Laughton	For those unfamiliar , Island of Lost Souls ( 1933 ) is the earliest and easily the superior version of H . G . Wells ' Dr . Moreau . This is a beautifully filmed movie that still supplies the creepy moments almost 70 years after being made . The basic story : A man rescued at sea is dropped off at an uncharted island owned by Dr . Moreau . The island is filled with strange " natives " . The man soon learns that the natives are actually the creations of Dr . Moreau . Dr . Moreau is a god to his creations . But , once the " natives " learn that Dr . Moreau is not a god , they turn on him with horrifying consequences . Charles Laughton delivers one of the best performances in the history of horror as the mad Dr . Moreau . Dressed head-to-toe in white , he is as sinister as you get . A brilliant acting job . The rest of the cast is fine . Bela Lugosi , in a very small supporting role , is quite good . Kathleen Burke ( Lota the Panther Woman ) is also a stand out . But , this is Laughton's film and he makes the most of it . The very simple creature makeup is effective . The cinematography , etc . are also quite good . For example , there are several scenes with Moreau standing in the shadows that are especially effective . This is a film not to be missed . While it may not appeal to the hack and slash crowd , Island of Lost Souls is a wonderful horror movie . For what it's worth , I'll give this one . ( It's a shame Paramount didn't make more horror films in the 30s . ) One final thought , the ending of the film is very reminiscent of the ending of Freaks ( 1932 ) with the same savagery on display .
" It's in the trees ! It's coming ! "	Being a fan of classic horror , I'm almost embarrassed to admit that this was my first viewing of Night of the Demon as it is very nearly the perfect horror film . It's got everything I could ask for . Instead of going into detail on everything that works , I'll give the laundry list of highlights : an interesting premise , an intelligently written script , good acting , atmosphere you can cut with a knife , nail-biting suspense , beautiful cinematography , and touches of humor that add to rather than take away from the film . There is nothing that I would change about the movie . And that includes director Jacques Tourneur being forced to show the demon . I think the demon scenes are nicely done and do not take anything away from Night of the Demon . Contrary to a couple of reviews I've read , they're not " cheesy " in the least . In fact , the demon is downright frightening . While I admit that the film might have been even better had the demon's image been left to the imagination , it's there . Just enjoy it for what it is .
" We didn't come here to fight monsters , we're not equipped for it . "	A group of scientists heads up an Amazonian river in search of the fossilized remains of an unknown link between man and aquatic life . But the team of researchers gets more than they bargained for when they encounter a living example of their prehistoric Gill-Man . After a member of their party is killed , the group decides it best to leave the Black Lagoon . But the creature has become enamored with Kay ( Julie Addams ) , the only female on the expedition , and blocks the scientist's retreat . Will they escape the Creature from the Black Lagoon ? As I think back to the late 60s , Creature from the Black Lagoon is one of the very first movies I can remember seeing . Its appeal to me was immediate and long lasting . The scenes of the creature's hand reaching up on the shore of the lagoon sent chills down my spine . And the four note musical introduction to the first images of the creature very nearly knocked me off the couch . Even at a young age , I knew it was a man in a costume , but that didn't matter . The creature design was awesome ? it was frightening and fascinating all at once . The underwater photography was breathtaking . The shots of the creature swimming just under Julie Addams were the stuff of nightmares . Creepy ! The underwater fight scenes , the spear-gun , Nestor Paiva , and the hidden grotto ? I couldn't get enough of it . To my 5 or 6 year-old mind , Creature from the Black Lagoon was the perfect movie . I'm not 5 anymore , but my opinion hasn't changed much . The cool thing is that I still get a charge out of that hand coming out of the water , I still jump a little when the creature music blares at his first appearance , and I still love the shots of the creature swimming under Julie Addams . I don't think I'll ever get tired of any of it .
Movies don't get much better than this	- I've seen Les Diaboliques with its very high rating on IMDb for a few years . But I thought to myself , it can't be that good - it's French . I finally gave it a chance . How wrong was I ? I've never been more happy with a blind purchase in my life . - Michel Delasalle ( Paul Meurisse ) is the headmaster of an all-boys school . He's an abusive person to both his wife ( Vera Clouzot - the director's wife ) and his mistress ( Simone Signoret ) - both of whom work at the school . The wife and mistress decide they can't take it anymore and hatch a plot to kill Michel . The plan is carried out and the body is placed where it can be found . The problem is no one finds the body . It's gone . Things turn from bad to worse ( and more horrifying ) when students begin reporting that they have seen Michel roaming through the school . Any more of the story would be far too much . - I do my best not to rate a movie after a first viewing . But every once in a while , I stumble upon a real classic that I can't help but call perfect . The acting is very impressive , especially Vera Clouzot as the fragile wife . I felt every emotion she expressed . The plot is fantastic . Even though I figured out what was going to happen , it didn't matter . The movie is so well written that it was just a joy to watch it unfold . The sets are about the best I've seen . Everything looked just as I would expect from a French movie made so close to end of the war . Nothing was changed to make things look " pretty " . It's dirty and it works . I could go on and on like this , but you get the idea . - Clouzot has been called the " French Hitchcock " and it's easy to see why . He handles a movie with Hitchcockian type themes as well as Hitchcock might have himself . His decision to allow the movie the time necessary to build atmosphere and to allow the audience to get to know the characters is something I find sorely missing in many of today's movies . - I highly recommend this one .
My favorite cartoon	Back in the 60s , I was convinced that " Jonny Quest " was the single greatest cartoon ever created . It was something special . It had a more adult feel to it and , therefore , to my 5 year old mind , that made it more real . Watching today , I realize how wrong my notions of reality were , but there's no denying a more serious tone or style to " Jonny Quest " than any other cartoon on at the time . But there's also no denying how good it really was . I was incredibly envious of Jonny and the adventures he and Hadji were allowed to go on . Battling mummies , chasing a giant robotic spider , and fighting off giant condors were just part of the fun . And what about Race Bannon ? what small boy worth his salt didn't want to grow up and be like Race ? He was awesome . Finally , I would argue that there were other positive aspects of the show beyond entertainment . This may sound completely ridiculous to someone who never watched " Jonny Quest " , but it inspired a real interest in science and history in me and my brother . I look at the show as having had a very positive influence on us . I have fond memories of many of the episodes , but if I had to pick just one as a favorite , I think I would go with " The House of the Seven Gargoyles " . Talk about creeping me out ? I hid my head under the covers . I still have the most vivid memories of that episode . I recently picked up the DVD set and , over the past couple of months , I've been making my way through the episodes . Forty years later , I'm still enjoying them and " The House of Seven Gargoyles " is still pretty creepy . To my delight , my four year old son has watched a couple of the episodes with me . I was thrilled when I realized how much he was loving it . Like father , like son ? how cool is that ?
" It's much too dangerous to jump through fire with their clothes on . "	I'll try to keep this short as I've always found it difficult to write about a movie I genuinely love . Give me a bad movie and I'll write for days , but with a brilliant film like The Wicker Man , I'm at a loss for words . If it's possible , I enjoy The Wicker Man more and more with each successive viewing . I notice things each time I see the movie that I never noticed before . It may be something as insignificant as a small piece of set decoration or a look that one character gives another , but they all add to the overall enjoyment I get out of this movie . And regardless of the number of times I've seen The Wicker Man , that final scene has lost none of its power . The images of Sergeant Howie being led off to face his destiny are some of the best I've seen in any movie . It's the kind of moment that you don't easily forget . As I said , it's powerful stuff . I just checked to see who won the Academy Award for Best Actor for 1971 . Don't misunderstand because Gene Hackman is good in The French Connection , but there are very few performances that I feel compare with Edward Woodward in The Wicker Man . People in movies like The Wicker Man don't generally get recognized for awards , but they should . It's a fantastic performance . Every moment , whether it's what I call The Seduction of Sgt . Howie to The Indignation of Sgt . Howie to The Martyrdom of Sgt . Howie , Woodward expresses more emotion and conveys more feeling than most actors are capable of . Whether you like the character or not , it would be difficult to deny how effective Woodward is .
" I have conquered science ! Why can't I conquer love ? "	Renowned surgeon Dr . Gogol ( Peter Lorre ) is madly obsessed with an actress named Yvonne Orlac . The feeling , however , is not mutual as Yvonne is married to a pianist named Stephen . When Stephen's gifted and talented hands are crushed in a train wreck , Yvonne begrudgingly seeks Gogol's assistance to save her husband's career . Seeing an opportunity to get in Yvonne's good graces , he agrees to help Stephen . Gogol replaces Stephen's mangled hands with those of a knife throwing murderer only recently put to death . But Gogol's plans for Yvonne backfire when Stephen's new hands prove to have a mind of their own . Overlooked for far too long ( probably because it wasn't part of the Universal packages that so many television stations bought and aired ) , it's good to finally see Mad Love getting so much richly deserved praise . It's a classic in every sense of the word . There are so many facets to the movie I could write about , but , in the name of brevity , I'll try to control myself and limit my comments to two items . The first is the film's look . Technically , Mad Love is nothing short of brilliant . Director Karl Freund was first and foremost a cinematographer ? as Mad Love proves . Freund knew how to shoot a scene . As an example , take a look at the scenes set in the hallway and stairwell of Dr . Gogol's house . They may be insignificant to the overall movie , but you can see the care and effort Freund put into those moments . These scenes are like a painting come to life with their stunningly beautiful mix of light and shadows . Or , take the better known shots of Gogol dressed as the dead knife thrower . Not only are the special effects some of the most frightening of the 30s , the lighting in that scene goes a long way to creating the desired effect . It's an amazing piece of work . Peter Lorre's performance is the other aspect of Mad Love that jumps out at me . Lorre has always been a favorite of mine , but I consider his work in Mad Love the best he ever did . Lorre does more without words in this movie than most actors would be capable of . For example , Gogol's repressed longing for Yvonne is clearly evident on Lorre's face without him even having to utter a word . Or , take the scenes in the operating room . The slow building madness in Lorre's eyes as the surgery progresses is clearly evident . And once again , Lorre doesn't have to utter a word . I consider Lorre's performance in Mad Love to be one of the best in the annals of horror . Brilliant ! And I don't know who came up with the idea of the shaved head to go along with Lorre's bulging eyes , but it was a winner . It only serves to highlight Lorre's already expressive features . As I indicated previously , if I allowed myself I could write for days on Mad Love . But I won't . I suppose I could end this by mentioning what has to be the most common criticism of Mad Love that I've read ? the comic relief . But why let something that insignificant ruin what is otherwise a perfect movie ?
" John has a long mustache . "	I've lost count of the number of times I've watched The Longest Day . In my opinion , it's one of the best , most enjoyable films I've ever seen and it rests firmly in my top 25 . I look forward to revisiting it each chance I get . What do I like about The Longest Day ? Almost everything . I know the film has its share of detractors who complain about the film's length , the historical inaccuracies , the number of cameos , the " flag waving " , or the lack of realistic bloodshed amongst other things . I don't have a problem with any of this . The film's length ? not a problem . If anything , I always want more . The historical inaccuracies ? not a problem . There's a whole page of goofs listed on IMDb . I'm not a historian and I'm not about to let the fact that someone was carrying the wrong sidearm get in the way of my enjoyment . The number of cameos ? not a problem . The only cameo that I feel is unnecessary is the one of Rod Steiger . I enjoy all of the others . The " flag waving " ? not a problem . The Allies , of which the U . S . A . was a part , should be proud of their victory in WWII . The lack of realistic bloodshed ? not a problem . The carnage depicted in Saving Private Ryan may be missing , but the atmosphere and " feeling " are still there . In short , it's damn near a perfect film as far as I'm concerned .
