A Nutshell Review : They Came Back	The horror . . . the horror ! No , the movie's nothing frightening , but in fact , it bored me to tears . You can literally take a leak , go to the snack bar , have a smoke , and return to the theatre , missing absolutely nothing . Half the time I was wondering whether something remotely interesting will crop up midway to quicken the pace , but I was dead wrong . The movie is meant to be painfully and excruciatingly slow , for it to bring forth its philosophy about life and death , and its abstract ideas about existentialism . The big question presented , though it is hardly ever gonna come true anyway , is how will society react if the dead suddenly became alive again ? The issues that are posed , from housing to employment to health care and even human rights ( ! ) , are those that are any government's nightmare . The movie begins with stoned elderly folks walking , and walking , and walking some more when the opening credits rolled , until it is said that the dead are walking the earth , and are quickly scrambled to makeshift holding areas while awaiting the relatives to come claim them , and for everyone else to try and make sense of this phenomenon . Perhaps Heaven is getting crowded , or Hell has frozen over , that the departed need to return to the land of the living . They do not crave the blood of man , but rather , are finding ways to integrate back into society . Herein lies the opportunity for philosophy that is unappreciated by myself . There are different viewpoints presented via various characters , but all that is worth recalling , is that the dead are not pleased to be alive , and those alive are absolutely clueless as to what to do next . Bottom line is , let sleeping dogs lie . One thing's for sure , I don't really like abstract zombies . Give me those that crave for flesh and blood anytime !
A Nutshell Review : Disaster Movie	I guess the title already tells you everything you need to know about the movie . It is without a doubt a total disaster . I still find it quite amazing that writer directors Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer still managed to get funds to have their films made , after equally disastrous unfunny comedies such as Epic Movie and Meet the Spartans ( OK , I shall unabashedly say that I enjoyed Date Movie ) , because while it's spoof after spoof , it certainly isn't cheap trying to replicate certain stuff , even if done laced with loads of cheese , or swede-d . Should there be a story linking everything little crazy thing together , then it would be Cloverfield , where a group of friends Will ( Matt Lanter , whose left year I found strangely out of alignment with his right ? ) , Calvin ( G . Thang ) , Juney ( Crista Flanagan ) , Lisa ( Kimberly Kardashian ) and the Enchanted Princess ( Nicole Parker ) journey to save Amy ( Vanessa Minnillo ) before getting themselves out of the city to escape some unknown and best forgotten natural calamity , where the threat of mankind is raining cows . The only merit I would give the filmmakers is how they went ballistic and stretched their imagination to milk every possible opportunity to script in some other movie , be it borrowing characters or premise . You'd probably lose count at the something-new-at-every-minute strategy , and frankly speaking , they're at best some skits which for the life of me , are totally unfunny . Nada , zilch , nothing to laugh about . I guess even kids will find the juvenile humour here a total turn off . Which is not strange , considering that even jokes were borrowed , and relied too heavily on the usual toilet humour , which is already so tired . While there are comedies which can be original , the pedigree of Friedberg and Seltzer , coming as scriptwriters for Scary Movie ( s ) , would by now reinforce that they make poor stories and jokes from their lack of innovation . Being able to string together countless of movies is one thing , but making a genuine and workable comedy is another . Not having an established cast to star in your movie might stem from a modest budget to work with , but I'm likely to think that everyone approached , save for the relative no-names here , would not want to touch this even with a ten foot pole , just in case it really stinks and stain their filmography . I think it's even time for me to put a foot down and say No to Friedberg and Seltzer . The powers that be should really dry up the credit line that fuel their productions , and given some belt-tightening in the economy , hopefully this should be soon .
A Nutshell Review : One Missed Call	One Missed Call gets filed amongst Hollywood Remakes of Japanese Horror that shouldn't have been green lighted in the first place . I suppose with the likes of so many of such remakes , the supposed winning formula would be to adopt the story , slap some relatively known actors in it , and employ every trick in the Hollywood horror book , and expect the box offices to go ka-ching ! Wrong ! One Missed Call happens to be One Big Bore ! I am beginning to affirm that horror remakes by Hollywood are a waste of time . What made the Asian ones work , is because of a certain X-factor appeal in them , pertaining to the building of atmospheric mood , which plays a key role in maintaining tension , and some really ingenious and innovative ways of exposing the ghoul for a good scare . Hollywood instead dives straight into such scenes with so much noise , even the ghoul would have run away . It doesn't mean that with a bigger budget and better special effects , it's an automatic triumphing over the relatively lower key originals . They work for a reason , and more money being thrown at it , is just not the answer . I am curious to know how Edward Burns would have truly thought about his role here , as well as the storyline . A filmmaker himself , I guess he needed to pay the bills and perhaps fund his own projects too . I had enjoyed his performance in 15 Minutes and Confidence , not masterpieces but at least a tad enjoyable , and while he has the occasional dud like A Sound of Thunder , I thought his role here as a generic cop , really took the cake . It's just so lazy a character , he got slapped into the thick of things in pure coincidental fashion , and not to mention just going through the motions of it all , looking concerned most of the time , and being cut out of the action for the most parts too conveniently . Shannyn Sossamon probably had everyone take notice with her lead female role in A Knight's Tale , alongside Heath Ledger and Paul Bettany . While her male co-stars went on to bigger and better roles , she got perpetually stuck with unremarkable ones , and with turkeys such as this . In true Final Destination style , her friends around her start dying after she hears their missed call / voice messages , which contains their last utterances on Earth , before their untimely demise , the exact moment all coldly printed on the LCD screen of their mobile phone . Even the deaths too seem uninventive , and so bad I would've settled for a simple knife stabbing just to get over it . And the supporting characters ? Don't bother . Too many one dimensional roles here which calls for half exposed cleavage to spice things up a little and hold the attention of pimply boys it hopes to target in the audience . I tell you , one more of this demonic kid nonsense , and that's it , it get a stamp of rejection . What's with demonic kids ? Can we get over this group already ? Can we move on from crazed children who probably needed a good spanking to slap the devil out of them ? And move on too from the creaking doors , insipid light and shadow play , sudden crescendos in the soundtrack , and cheap shots passing off as " ingenious " ways to scare the audience . It's boring when it doesn't get done right , and comes off as lackadaisical . But what's truly scary , would be you downloading from somewhere , the ring tone that is featured in the movie , and into your friends mobile phone . It's now synonymous with impeding doom and death , so if you want to wish someone ill-will , then this is your ringtone of choice . If I can create a ringtone and make money out of it , then this is the one to create , right now before the fad dies off . One missed call ? Don't return the call please , and delete it from your phone records . For good . Skip it and don't bother with the rental .
A Nutshell Review : Youth Without Youth	I guess everyone would have waited with bated breaths at what Francis Ford Coppola would have presented as his first directorial effort after 10 years . I for one , enticed by the trailer , thought that Youth Without Youth would have been a decent force to be reckoned with , given its lush visuals and somewhat a compelling storyline as presented , but alas what had become of that potential ? In many ways , this movie was lazy , and its convoluted plot being unable to make any headway , being just a plain bore , totally smashed any notions of this being a grand masterpiece . In fact , when the end credits rolled , I wondered just what had Coppola smoked in order to come up with something so seriously horrendous and unpalatable ? If I were cruel , I could've interpreted this as one huge dream sequence from start to end , and you know just how cheap a narrative that would be . Youth Without Youth , based on the novel by Mircea Eliade , tells of a story of an aged linguist Dominic ( Tim Roth ) , who is on a suicidal mission , only to have it thwarted , sort of , in advance by higher powers . He gets electrocuted by lightning , but survives and recuperates at a hospital . But it seems that that little jolt of electricity begins to rejuvenate his tired body cells , and he gets to his surprise , younger . Hence the title , sort of , as his prowess of reading by waving his hand as if a practitioner of the Jedi Mind Trick , utterly makes him the most learned man in the universe . But of course I am exaggerating here . Set during WWII , this kind of capabilities sets off the alarm bells of the Third Reich , and needless to say , he's the target of some serious reverse engineering to find out the secret behind his fountain of youth . Embroiled into some spy versus spy stuff , with the introduction of Veronica ( Alexandra Maria Lara ) , a spy who resembled his lost sweetheart , they romance each other , then go jet setting round the world , and truly , there's where the movie lost its plot , somewhere in Timbuktu , especially when lightning does strike twice and she blabbers expertly in Sanskrit , and has an adverse effect on her age . Seriously , everyone in the movie should be struck by lightning , and you can build a tower of babel in the heart of nowhere . Granted , the cinematography was lush , but everything else was just plain boring . It tried to be intellectual with Dominic's quest to discover the origins of language , though some may argue that it's quite a focused romance story and the likes , I'd say blah to that , as it's quite clearly an attempt to be arty , but fell flat to become farty . You can sense the load of pretentiousness throughout the film , in trying to be far more than it actually is , and junked common sense for an elitist " so you're too dense to understand the film " . Tim Roth could have saved the movie , if not for his charismatic presence in becoming a Smeagol / Gollum character with his Dominic engaging himself in conversation for the most parts . But sorry , Andy Serkis had already done that to perfection , and through CGI to boot . Youth Without Youth had potential , and if you're as equally convinced about that as I was when you watch the trailer , my advise is to stick that few minutes to memory , as the actual film is overwrought with elements that bore , and an unforgivable convoluted plot heading nowhere other than that which spells disaster .
A Nutshell Review : The Promise	The trailers , the posters , the casting , all looked promising . Sadly , the storyline is one heck of a convoluted one , and I hate to use the word , but absurd is what The Promise is . This is a fantasy picture as promoted , and true enough , it is , so much that you have to leave your brains at the door . In trying to sound intelligent , the plot fumbles and ended up really unconvincing . It's all style and little substance . To associate this with martial arts films is to insult the genre , and one shouldn't even mention this film nor compare it to Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . It's time filmmakers wake up to the idea that CTHD is a one-off that cannot be replicated . Do not try to go one up by having characters fly faster , higher , harder . Or run so fast they can break the space-time continuum and time travel . Science fiction this is not . Yet , you cannot fault the cinematography , which seemed beautiful , until a closer scrutiny makes it so obvious that it's CGI created . Think Storm Rider's special effects in the creation of its world , there is no improvement in the refinement of graphics in The Promise after so many years . Does this mean that only the West can come up with believable CGI worlds for audiences ? Plot loopholes are abound , and you can drive a horde of running bulls right through it . You also get the usual villain driven soliloquy at the finale explaining his grudge he unbelievably held for so long ( and the lengths he goes to settle it ) , and some homosexual undertones in one of the minor characters too . Hip ? Guess not . What fails in plot delivery is having drag on what is obvious to the audience ( but not to a character ) for too long . In fact , almost the entire length of the movie . It wearies the audience , and insults the audience's intelligence . So what's this movie about ? It's a love triangle of sorts , between a Princess ( Cecilia Cheung ) , a General of the Crimson Army ( Japan's Hiroyuki Sanada ) , and his slave Kunlun ( Korea's Jang Dong Gun ) . Playing the chief villain is Nicholas Tse , whose pretty boy looks probably made his character less threatening . Destiny is the running theme of the movie , where each character is destined for certain goals and events , and one in which is set in stone . Cursed by a fairy when young , the Princess is not to find true love , until impossible conditions are met . And the General too is foretold the elements leading to his impending death . What started off plotwise , as promising , degenerated into a web of blah which I wince at by just recalling it . Are there any saving graces in the movie ? Yes , but they are few . Look out for the fights involving Nicholas Tse , where I thought his use of the fan as a lethal boomerang was a marvel to watch . Cecilia Cheung also lit up the screen , but not for her acting nor the character's development though . The editing of a love scene too was uncalled for to get a PG rating , so that more audiences could fill the theatres . I reckon the word of mouth for this film will unsettle that . Hiroyuki Sanada and Jang Dong Gun , I guess , tried their best with the flimsily weak storyline to deliver their lines in Mandarin . Better that way too , with the rubbish I hope they don't understand . If there is any movie which failed to live up to its hype , this movie is it , miserably . I'm sad to say that this is easily one of the worst films of the year . One more thing , they should have subtitled the opening titles explaining the background of the movie too , if they want to target non-mandarin speaking audiences . Slip-shoddy , careless start to a Chen Kaige disappointment .
A Nutshell Review : Invisible Waves	If this is going to be someone's maiden entry into Pen-Ek Ratanatuang's movies , then I dare say that he's not going to win any new fans with this piece of crap . Might even lose the old ones too . Not that I've watched all his films ( missed the retrospective during the symposium last year ) , but Invisible Waves was a rude introduction . It's basically an extremely weak piece of storytelling , with a non-existent , juvenile story . I equate it to a primary school kid's first composition , and the worst kid in class can come up with something more imaginative and interesting . The story does not engage at all , and the characters , you'd wish that they all die to save you the misery of trying to understand them . So what if it's lensed by Christopher Doyle ? Here , his images come up poorly . While the technique might work with Wong Kar Wai's movies ( at least there's a decent , understandable story ) , someone should advise Doyle that one technique doesn't always necessary fit all . It makes you come across as a one trick pony . The sea , very interesting to look at ? If you have meaning to it , fine , but there isn't . Oh , the characters walk out of the frame and you only hear voices . That's cool ? No , what's with that dumb ship hull in the frame ? It makes you wonder if it's done for the sake of doing it , rather than to go back to the old school method of properly tracking a scene . And what of the weak story ? For the first time , I'd say don't trust all the synopsis out there , even if it's IMDb . com . It makes it sound more interesting , and could probably be filmed in a better way by an amateur filmmaker . Kyoji ( Asano Tadanobu ) , a Japanese chef cum hit-man living in Macau , is having an affair with his boss's wife . He's instructed to kill her , and like all obedient servant , performs the deed , and like all Hong Kong mafiaso movies , he has to take a hike to another country after the hit . Which brings him to Phuket , Thailand , but not before actually having to spend an hour's worth of run time doing absolutely nothing on board a ship ( which does not move by the way - tells you how good the production values are ) . It plays out like an unfunny , contrived episode of Mr Bean , where everything that could go wrong , would go wrong , with repetitive tired dialogue of having to deal with an unresponsive reception ( makes you wonder if Asians are that dumb ) . He meets a single mother called Noi ( Kang Hye-Jeong , I think pan-Asian collaboration getting hip these days , even if they speak horrendously in English ) , who is so weak a character , you could write her off the script as she does absolutely nothing , even at the ending ( hello , we got a situation here and you're admiring your damn ring ? ) . It doesn't matter anymore when Kyoji finally arrives at Phuket , gets into the same situation as while on the ship , gets robbed ( oei , you hit-man , but you're one heckuva lousy one ) , and gets help from Lizard , who turns out to be his hunter , tasked to silence Kyoki . But they sure beat around the bloody bush to get to this point . And from there , you would've wondered that in any reel or real world , the entire scenario as played out from that point all the way to the finale , is hokey . It's poor storytelling , it's bad script , it's utter crap . I also credit this film with having one of the weakest mob boss villain , with no credibility , and the actor playing him , zero expression . If I can give out the equivalent of the Razzies , this movie will win 11 of them - bad screenplay , bad acting ( times 4 ) , bad direction , bad cinematography , bad music , bad costumes , bad production design and bad picture . The saving graces of the movie is actually the appearance of Hong Kong veterans Eric Tsang and Maria Cordero . Just the appearance , not their characters or what they do or say , just for that cheap laugh of " hey , I recognize them , what made them sign on the dotted line ? " I think it's high time that filmmakers realize that pieces of crap doesn't equate to works of art . This is pretentious art at its worst . This is a horribly reeking piece of crap , it's still early into the year , but already a contender for worst movie . Save your money , and save your time - don't even bother watching this , even if it's a pirated free copy . Find a better movie to sit on the Picturehouse's Oscar chair .
A Nutshell Review : The Passion	" This Year's Most Controversial Sex Thriller " proclaims the blurb on the promotional poster . Whoever wrote that must either be out of their minds , or must have watched a different version which contained so many raunchy sequences they were left out for private consumption . But it worked though , as I theatre I went to had screenings which totally sold out . To suckers easily believing the marketing department of course . And putting Bongkoj Khongmalai in a seductive pose on the poster worked wonders too . To put it in the correct context , this movie is not a sex thriller , and it actually brings back memories of those 80s Hong Kong B-grade flicks which go straight to video . The presentation is messy with its convoluted plot , and have characters in which all are extremely unlikable . While it tries to be a little smart in offering its twist ending , it's too little too late , and try as you might to understand the intended storyline , its slack delivery has already done too much damage to salvage anything . Set in a multiplex cinema complex over the course of one night , Bongkoj Khongmalai ( one of the Chai-Lai Angels , in case you find her familiar ) stars as a lady seemingly obsessed with watching every movie in that new multiplex , buying one ticket for every screening , only to find the right moment with gathered courage to stab herself in an act of suicide . However , the lecherous security manager of the complex will have none of that , as he turns it into his obsession to rape her . And that's almost the gist of the movie . Just to show how corrupt the security manager is , he deals drugs to employees on the side , and makes extra income ( by the millions ) in selling " porn " based on covert CCTV cameras which he has strategically placed in female washrooms and changing rooms . Basically the plot and premise doesn't have too much logic involved , and it definitely cannot be classified as a thriller as it just doesn't have the pizazz to be one . Added to the mix are a host of throwaway characters like a head goon from security who's infatuated with a spunky cleaner lady , who in turn is smitten with the cinema usher , who in turn owes loads of money to the security manager because of his drug addiction . After we're introduced to the characters , we're led to episode after episode of simple scheming to get rich , women trying to escape capture by fighting off security folks in really bad fight action sequences which throws in everything and almost involved the kitchen sing , and plot loopholes so big you can fly an aeroplane through . Sex sells , but this movie definitely shortchanged everyone with bad story , acting , everything . Even the R21 rating for violence is laughable , as those scenes came off as amateurish and more comedic than horrific , fake blood , bad CGI and all .
A Nutshell Review : Full Frontal	2 words : It SUCKS ! OK , so sue me , perhaps i don't know how to appreciate this film , so if you do , write a comment will ya ? This movie starts off as a movie within a movie , called Rendezvous . For the next hour , you're left wondering what the heck is this movie all about . Simple . Basically just telling you stories behind those characters leading up to their attending a director's ( Gus , played by Duchonvy , less than 10 mins screen time mind you ) birthday party . Characters include a black actor ( Blair Underwood ) , a white actress ( Julia Roberts ) , a HR vice president of some company , her sister who's going to meet some guy whom she knew from IRC , that guy from the IRC who didn't really tell her frankly who he was ( some art director rather than a painter ) , a stage actor , and many others you probably won't give a hoot about . However , the only saving grace was David Fincher and Brad Pitt playing themselves . Watch out for Fincher's spoof of his own directing style ( the endless reshoots of even simple scenes involving only 1 spoken line ) . Although the movie is draggy , stay on during the end credits where you get to see some contrived behind the scenes shots , as well as a Brad Pitt " Easter Egg " scene right at the end . That is if you still have the patience to torture yourself through it all . A lot of people in my screening left halfway through the show , and those who forced themselves to sit through the ending because they paid $8 . 50 darted out of the theatre once the credits start rolling . Don't watch , unless you really think you can pretend to understand the show .
A Nutshell Review : Return to Pontianak	Asian horror movies have always been popular here , and even local film The Maid by Kelvin Tong managed to strike gold at the box office , here and overseas as well , going against the grain of thought that local movies do not make money . However , in the recent surge of local movie making , there was another Singapore horror movie made , Return to Pontianak , which seemed to hold some promise with its reimagining / retelling of the legendary Malay female spirit . There were signs that it was bad - a friend's warning , and the turnout for the screening was a paltry 10-15 persons , but I just had to watch it for myself . The verdict ? This made in 2001 movie reeks , and reminds you of failed attempts by filmmakers around the world in taking something quite established , and then giving their own creative spin on it . While some might work , most of them will go the way of the Hollywood Godzilla . If this Pontianak were to go head long with the original Pontianak in a one on one , director Djinn's version will be made to wash the original's flowing white garbs . While the originals made in the 50s and 60s ( I watched Sumpah Pontianak starring Maria Menado ) were cheesy and lacking in grand special effects , they had a lot of heart . This one absolutely doesn't . Made after the highly successful Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) , this is one movie which should be seen , as a lesson learnt in how NOT to make a horror film . It's strange that much of it emulated Blair Witch , with its forest setting , characters roaming around getting routinely lost , and its highly puke inducing jerky camera motions . While Blair Witch had a reason for it , Return to Pontianak's boils down to budget . Neither has it any scary moments or atmosphere , aside from some mumbo-jumbo recitings and the awful soundtrack which is a horror in itself . While characters in most horror movies are throwaways , and only in established classics that you have a tinge of development , the characters developed for Return to Pontianak are those that happen to be of the irritating kind . They don't look good ( Hollywood compensates for the lack of story with awesome eye candy ) , and neither do they spout interesting lines . Dialogue is awful and contrived , and the bad sound design makes things worse . Caricatures abound , you have a group of five , led by the protagonist called Charity ( Hiep Thi Le ) ( the last time I heard this name was in Hong Kong's StormRiders ) , who developed a sudden urge to seek out her biological parents in the jungles of Pontianak ( hence the title , other than the reference to the " hantu " ) . Joining her are a fugly man-girl called Uzi ( Eleanor Lee ) , whose mouth is automatically set to spout vulgarities like a sub-machine gun , an ignorant slacker ang mo Luke ( Steve Banks ) , the boring techno-geek Raymond ( Victor Khong ) , and a pretty useless and incompetent local guide called Eye ( Fadali ) . For the first hour , nothing much happens , and you have to endure bad bitching , bad acting , bad acting , bad sound , bad cinematography . That is until a mysterious couples appear , and the clichés associated with horror movie making come out in some force , although bad makeup , and more bad acting continue to plague the movie . Thankfully , the sound design improved in the last 30 minutes , but that's because most of the time the movie is silent , save for the rustling sounds of a tropical rainforest . And what of Pontianak herself ? Well , she comes out in the day . Which is preposterous . And she's totally lacking in prowess that made her infamous . Worse yet , this Pontianak is totally devoid of motivations and origins , and doesn't differentiate herself with any other ordinary ghost and goblin out there . For anyone not versed in the Pontianak lore , you might wonder what's the big deal . All in all , an extremely poor retelling . But if there is any consolation , it's that perhaps the filmmakers learnt from this bad episode , and given Djinn's Perth ( 2005 ) , you can see a fairly large jump in terms of storytelling craft . A better budget probably helped , and maybe the realization that something more rooted to earth is the better path for him ? Retitled Voodoo Nightmare for the overseas market , this movie has not much voodoo magic , but plenty of nightmares . Nightmares of a movie gone totally wrong .
A Nutshell Review : Black Night	When I can sit through a horror genre film and actually poke fun at its stupidity , then you know that there really is nothing to be afraid of . While the attempt is good , the delivery is pretty bad . The acting's mediocre at best , and the ghouls look extremely cheap . A Pan-Asian production , we see three different stories , each done with a different director helming the production . What I disliked about the movie is it's passing off 3 distinct horror shorts as a feature length production . They tried to have a unifying theme / element throughout , and it turned out to be the rehash of Ju-On / Dark Water . It's time horror filmmakers know to move on . Not everything must be from puddles of water and little boys you know ? " Next Door " is the Hong Kong portion , directed by Patrick Leung . We see a love triangle being formed between 2 girls and a guy . Well , make that 1 girl , 1 guy and 1 vengeful female spirit , who probably deserved to die in the first place for engaging in kinky sex games involving handcuffs . The ending's pretty ridiculous , and drew laughter rather than terror . What's worse , the characters can't seem to decide what language to speak in . From Cantonese to Mandarin , then to a mixture of both in the same sentence , it suggested that the filmmakers are suffering from lingua-schizophrenia ( ooh , did I just create a new term ? ) . The twist in the end is plain blah , and the little marble boy served no purpose other than to create cheap scares . " Black Hole " is the Japanese section , directed by Takahiko Akiyama . This one provided better scares with its horrific eyes-hollowed-out ghosts and special effects , but the storyline's a plain bore , about an aquarium usher having her past memory wiped out due to some early childhood trauma . It's psycho-analytical blabber which should have shut up and let the scares do the talking . Again there's a little boy involved , and again , a body of water plays an important element . But we don't really care much about it now , do we ? " The Lost Memory " is perhaps the best amongst all three . Directed by Thai Thanit Jitnukul , at least it had a relatively stronger storyline , one which tried to tug at your heartstrings as it dealt with family - an estranged husband and wife , and their child . It talks about promises , and the seeking of closure and forgiveness . But it reeks of Ju-On all over again , and the little boy looked like a Hulk reject with his green skin . Perhaps the only scary factor was the loud fall onto the toilet bowl . Really made you feel the pain . From Reincarnation to Black Night , this week's dark offerings are a joke , a meek attempt to make some moolah . Don't get conned - either watch something else which is worth your time , or wait for the right horror movie to come by . The little boy in Omen666 looks scary enough though - hold onto your hell money for / 06 .
A Nutshell Review : Summer Palace	Continuing my weekend of R21 movies , given that almost every screen in Singapore is showing Spider-Man 3 at the moment , and gives a clear indication on how the other blockbusters in the next 2 months will be treated as well . The Passion was a disappointment , and Summer Palace , somehow didn't live up to its hype , probably drawing curious audiences by the banning of its director Lou Ye from making films in the Mainland for the next 5 years , because he had failed to obtain official permission before screening Summer Palace overseas . In any case , the same old marketing gimmick was to hype that this as the most erotic movie from China , and naturally drew audiences in like bees to honey . I've long classified broadly that movies of the romance genre can usually be grouped into the romantic comedies which Hollywood does well enough , and the romantic tragedies which try to bring out those tears . I've forgotten one more group , so add this to the broad classification now - those that want to titillate . Summer Palace attempts to explore relationships from its leads against the historical backdrop of change in China , but falls flat and seemed to prefer to focus on humping . And even that it degenerates itself into soft porn territory , but at least soft porns are being honest about it . The story is neither a tragedy , or comedy , just plain boring drama infused with plenty of sex , which becomes meaningless , and mechanical after a while with repeated actions that drills down to lack of skills in bed . Both the action and the characters lack the emotional core that grabs the attention of the audience and engage some cerebral on why they are doing what they're doing . Yu Hong ( Lei Hao ) is a village girl staying near the border of China and North Korea , and qualified for Beijing University in the late 80s . Leaving behind her shopkeeper father and a postal service boyfriend who deflowered her in the middle of a road late one night , she goes to the big city , but inside is quite unhappy about it . You know , she's one of those girls with huge emotional baggage problems that nobody , including herself , understands why . Friendship comes in the form of fellow hostel mate Li Ti ( Ling Hu ) , who introduces her to Zhou Wei ( Guo Xiaodong ) at one of those jam and hop sessions , and thereafter they become sex partners trying to heat up the screen . It becomes love found , love lost , making love , love lost , love found , you get the idea . We have confused characters who do not know what to do with each other , and to make things worse , they're promiscuous too , making everything quite frivolous in their quest to satisfy their lust for sex . Even the direction and story became schizophrenic , and with the lack of skill , breezes through events like the Tiananmen Incident , and the fall of Communism with the collapse of the Berlin Wall , Gorbachev's resignation , Yeltsin's ascension to power , and the likes , with just archived images , and subtitles indicating the event and the year . It's cheap , lazy film-making . Before you know it , it's down to the last hour where the characters have grown up , and apart in different countries . There's a general feeling of lost , and if that's the filmmakers ' intent , they have succeeded . Perhaps the best part is the reunion , where I thought is the only time when it's realistic with the feeling of helplessness and being tongue tied when meeting up with a loved one after donkey years - things are never the same again , and could never be the same anymore , and do you wish to hold onto the past , or move on to your own future ? Despite the pretentious plot and characters , the movie does feature an excellent eclectic soundtrack , and there thankfully helped keep everyone awake . Otherwise it's as hokey as the inscription on the tombstone - unless it's a mega tombstone , I don't see how those words could have been inscribed on it without running out of space .
A Nutshell Review : Missing	I hate to make such a statement , but until I see something better from him , I think Tsui Hark has lost his Midas Touch . He had given us wonderful movies , some of which are my personal favourites like the Once Upon A TIme in China series starring Jet Li , and the Blade , but in his attempt to register a more prolific comeback after his less than stellar stab at Hollywood , his recent filmography had blown hot and cold , with more misses save for his collaboration in Triangle . Missing unfortunately falls into the Stinker category . No doubt there's a ton of potential as to how the story could develop , given the teases in the trailer , but what was delivered happened to be a convoluted plot which made very little sense and became extremely indecisive , like an octopus putting its tentacles into every conceivable nook and cranny genre ranging from supernatural romance to psychological thriller , that if it had stuck to one primary idea , it might have been fairly enjoyable . Unfortunately , it seemed like Hark wanted to ape after the contemporary Asian horror masters in the Pang Brothers from technique in storytelling , right down to casting one of their regular lead actress Angelica Lee as the role of Dr Gao Jin , a psychologist who hits it off with underwater photographer Dave Chen ( Guo Xiao Dong ) , the brother of her patient Xiao Kai ( Isabella Leong ) . A whirlwind romance ensues and in Dave's bid to propose to his beau underwater near the ruins off Japan's Yonaguni Island ( which you don't get to see at all ) , tragedy strikes , but we don't get to see what actually happened , providing the avenue for mysterious flashbacks and investigations into what was . But there's when most of the 2 hour runtime seem to find itself stuck in , coming up with so many subplots they get dumped unceremoniously when they no longer fit the whim of the moment . You get some outright statements on ecology and the saving of our oceans , then you get some spooky scenes with mysterious figures and spirits trying to garner some cheap scares . Granted these are the moments which were suspense filled and the audience let on to expect further exploration at a later time , only to be disappointed by its lack of focus no thanks to wanting to experiment with some fiery special effects . Just when you think you got the hang of things , Missing throws you totally off tangent with yet another major revelation almost two-thirds of the way , in what I would deem as a cheap cop-out , where further explanation would spoil it for you . Suffice to say that if you like the Pang Brothers ' Diary , then you might buy into Missing . Otherwise , you'll begin to roll your eyes and clock watch , as the story begins to suffer from its now unbelievable and much scattered design , and relied too much on coincidence to move everything forward toward a finale that just seem to not know when to end . And that was its ultimate flaw . It had plenty of moments when to pull the plug to mitigate the suffering of an audience , but no , it dragged on , and on , with each moment building on the ridiculousness of the previous minutes . In all honesty , I understood Tsui Hark's intentions in attempting to bring out a more emotional film about love and lost , especially toward the end when it realized it had burnt the bridges to salvage something horrific . In its lazy presentation in not knowing what to edit and leave out of the story , Missing felt just like one of the props in the movie , a headless body without any clear direction where to go towards . I thought it had hit the nail on the head during one of the many endings , but realized this last ditch attempt was wasted when it still refused to roll the end credits . And no matter how much pedigree Angelica Lee has brought from her reigning Scream - Queen experience , somehow it was just that which turns out to be the albatross around her neck , as she offers nothing new from her range of expressions in movies like The Eye , and Re-cycle , other than look visibly aged . Isabella Leong doesn't fare any better too with her character as she turns vampish in her role when she returns to the incident site to seek out her brother , and Tony Leung Kar Fai and Chang Chen had only supporting roles to bookend the movie . The latter's role was surprisingly the better one as a soft-spoken man with a penchant for predicting the supernatural , but alas is one character that is forgotten soon enough . Final verdict ? Watch Missing at your own peril . It does boast some very few moments of genuine horror , and nicely done special effects , before surrendering everything to slip - shoddy storytelling . The more subplots it dwelled upon , the more loopholes managed to creep into it , making the title a premonition of what the movie is actually all about - missing everything needed to make this a decent movie .
A Nutshell Review : Redline	You cannot deny that we have an affinity for speed . That's why movies like Fast and the Furious , Dhoom , Rempit get made to play to the satisfaction of audiences , especially local ones . We live on a tiny island , and I cannot fathom why , for the relative efficiency of the public transportation system , most of us want to get into debt by owning a set of wheels which come with 100 % tax when they reach our shores , and the myriad of taxes and bills to pay when operating one . Not only that , the high end sports cars were once quipped by a prominent politician up north that they will never reach fourth gear , lest they reach the sea . And these movies are relatively easy to make . Hot wheels and hot chicks always go down well together in targeting the required demographic . For once , those plunging necklines exposing uncanny buxom and short skirts accentuating legs two meters long , can't compete with the attention given to those beautiful curves that exotic cars possess in movies such as these . Of course there are amongst us ( ahem ) those that go for the sexists portrayal of women as mere sexual objects ( otherwise explain why motor shows come with truckloads of models , and movies such as these cannot do without a leggy model in a frame ) , however , they don't warrant the kind of collective orgasmic sighs whenever the four wheelers come on screen , even when they do exactly nothing and have their gears into Park . The guy sitting beside me , I swear he wet his pants every time his dream car ( s ) appear , and creamed his pants even more when he hears those growling engine moans . So there we have it , the fan boys who turned up in droves just to watch which of the latest cool cars get featured in the movie . With the Fast and the Furious franchise , the Japanese models like the Evos and the Skylines take centerstage , as does the GT . Here , the Ford GT takes on an incredibly drool-worthy facade modification , that even I'm impressed , alongside the latest models like the Ferrari Enzos , Porshe Carerra GTs , Koenigsegg CCXs , and every car out there that has wings for doors . But seriously , my heart goes out to the cars each time they're mercilessly wrecked just for entertainment . I mean , this are perfectly fine , high performance models that are at the apex of motoring , but yet because whoever financed the movie had millions to blow , they do so because they can , There's no story in Redline , just excuses to put together a movie full of beauties ( the cars that is ) that can rip down the tarmac in probably the most boring fashion possible , and with the usual shots of pedals ( always the accelerator , mind you , tapping the brake pedal is tantamount to blasphemy , and earn you no respect ) , steering wheels , gear shifts ( always shifting up and not down ) , all these while having the actors make pretend that they're the baddest asses with an engine , snarling and giving each other dirty looks . Not a very tall order for an actor , and that's why we get the most woeful performances ever , with lines that seem to be written by elementary schoolkids . The heroine ( yes , it made a statement that girls can drive ) Natasha ( a very plasticky looking Nadia Bjorlin ) is one of those million dollar finds - a girl with model looks who don't mind getting down on fours and immersed in oil , who has racing pedigree within her , and performs with a rock band singing songs with lyrics that are just plain laughable ( every line had to do with cars , and when singing about love , just had to string those innuendos like shifting gear shafts , lubricants and going for rides ) . Introduced against her wishes to illegal racing by a gangsta called Infamous ( Eddie Griffin ) , she gets drawn into family squabbles involving a Leo DiCaprio lookalike Iraq war veteran , and some sleazy lecherous looking rich uncle . Everything else , well like I said , just serves as an excuse for the movie to go from race to race . And it's almost always the same , as there's very limited to what you can do to heighten tension between race cars , especially when you know the race is rigged ( for narrative reasons ) and can see the race outcome a mile away from the finishing line . While Fast and Furious had quite charismatic actors , and I will put my head on the chopping block by naming Paul Walker , Sun Kang , and of course , the star it created - Vin Diesel , Redline had none , just pretty faces with lots of air unfortunately . It looks like a TV movie in its treatment from the get go , with a very insipid opening sequence where it's one man , one car , and a 105 minutes race against time to get to Vegas . If not for the cars , then this movie seriously is a piece of junk , with bad acting , bad lines and bad action . Strictly for the car fans , or those who like their movies with countless of bevy beauties who pimp their bodies without any speaking lines .
A Nutshell Review : Batman and Robin	This was the film that was infamously credited as the one which brought down the franchise started by Tim Burton . What started out as a dark vision became lighter in tone ( filled in lot of painful one-liners ) and brighter ( more neon colours ) in setting . The formula of showcasing the origins of the villains was stale , especially so since the delivery was outright flat . With the rumoured bust ups between Kilmer and Schumacher , it is no surprise that a new actor will occupy Wayne Manor . George Clooney became the new Batman , what with his square jaw and all , but unfortunately , he's no Bruce Wayne nor Batman - his star personality shone through the character , and he made little attempt to distinguish the difference between being the Bat and Bruce , so both sound the same . Also , the lame one liners like " And this is why Superman works alone " didn't cut it , this is the Dark Knight , not your friendly neighbourhood Spiderman ! ( Yeah , I'd blame it on the script ) . Real life joker as he is , get serious George ! His " Hi Freeze , I'm Batman " with a wry smile destroyed the image Michael Keaton started , and which Val Kilmer carried forward with more angst . Arnold Schwarzenegger got worse one-liners ( seemed like the script's only filled with them ) , and his Mr Freeze became comical . Mr Freeze is a sad character , one in which you might pity at times , given his condition and his cause to research and save his wife's life . But the script here mildly scratches the surface of this cool ( pardon the pun ) character . The sacrifice made by Schwarzenegger was a bald head to look like the character , but his muscles and build looked out of place ( Freeze was always drawn as a scrawny man ) . But no matter , the effects of his freeze gun was pretty well done . We were introduced to a rushed origin of Poison Ivy ( it's getting formulaic ! ) , it probably makes little sense of what's happening . Not that Uma Thurman doesn't look the part , though I must confess , at times the costumes look too cheesy with gaudy colours . It's only when we see Uma in the classic leafy blouse and green stockings did Poison Ivy temporarily come alive . Her poisonous kiss was also dealt with without much depth . When you get kissed , you'll go into this psychedelic hypnotic trance , and you'll be under her spell . Here , this gets glossed over . We know both Batman and Robin fall under her spell and started to bicker ( in a scene that I'll label outright as Stupid ) but the trance like sequence was absent , where they will see the world in some plant like environment , with Ivy in various states of undress . Get my point ? Batgirl was so wrongly done , just to get Clueless star Alicia Silverstone on board . Barbara Gordon is Commissioner Gordon's daughter , but given Jim Gordon's lack of substantial characterization in the entire franchise , Barbara becomes Alfred's niece . Totally off , and I wondered who in DC Comics approved of such a blasphemous change . The costume Chris O'Donnell wore , seriously looked like Nightwing . They could have titled this film Batman and Nightwing if Nightwing had a more popular and recognizable following . Heck , even the movie's logo , an amalgam of Batman's and Nightwing's ( yes , not Robin's ) looked cool , and I thought the plot included Dick's wanting for independence and leaving Robin behind to strike out on his own . No disrespect to Chris , but since Batman Forever , the movie's version of Dick Grayson always seemed more like Jason Todd ( the fallen Robin who was murdered by the Joker ) , and this time it seemed a bit worse . However I was quite pleased to see that in the finale , Robin was outfitted in a costume that really looked like Nightwing's , and I actually hoped that if this bad movie did manage box office success , perhaps we might see a Nightwing spin-off . Alas . I don't mind , and could probably understand why , so many actors and characters were thrown into the mix . But the worse inclusion of all has got to be that of Bane . Bane is a relatively new character who was developed by the drug enhancer code-named " Venom " ( You can read more about it in Legends of the Dark Knight 16-20 , and Vengeance of Bane ) . He's also credited as the villain who broke Batman's back in Batman issue 497 . This film totally humiliated Bane by making him a voiceless , useless lackey of Poison Ivy . As for the supporting characters , Alfred was inflicted with a fictional disease , so there goes " reality " , out of the window . Commissioner Gordon , again played by Pat Hingle , wasn't given much screen time or character depth and I had already given up seeing the strong brotherhood between Bats and him that could have been . Elle " The Body " MacPherson starred as Judie Madison , the token love interest of Bruce Wayne , which could have been done away with given the zero chemistry . If I recall , the comic Bruce Wayne in the Bob Kane days was engaged to her ( or was she called at that time , Julie Madison ? ) While the actors probably tried their best , I wonder what ran through their minds when they read the script , because it is one rigged with scenes which leapt right out of Adam West's TV Series . I mean , Bat-credit-card ? And from nippled costumes ( which still stayed ) to butt-shots , what gives ? The Batmobile was mutilated ! It was a one-seater open air dragster that looked simply horrible . The worst of all the Batmobiles we've seen , aesthetically that is . This movie tanked , and rightfully so . It isn't the Batman that can fit into the franchise . It was totally off tangent . Fans around the world hated the Schumacher-treatment , and I'd bet he'll never touch another Bat / DC Comics franchise for many years to come .
A Nutshell Review : All About Women	It must have been crazy to brand this as Asia's answer to the wildly popular Sex in the City , because for all the star power in its female cast , whom besides Zhou Xun , I thought the rest had hung to the coattails of their more popular co-stars such as Stephen Chow and Jay Chou in order to give their cinematic career some needed boost . And what must Tsui Hark be thinking if he reckoned that he could get in touch with his inner feminine self to bring to an audience something about the modern women's psyche on relationships ? There's nothing fun nor sassy in the characters and the storyline here , and at best , it's a forgettable piece of drama that felt like a typical scatterbrain trying to figure everything , but getting down to achieving nothing . The film was schizophrenic on a lot of fronts , having bitten more than it can chew , and then couldn't decide if it preferred to spit or swallow ( pardon the sexual connotations , which the movie is devoid of anyway ) . While some would have written off Tsui Hark as a has-been , I thought I still wanted to give him a chance even after the rather dismal Missing , and while one can applaud his bravery at attempting something fresh , you're likely to find yourself questioning just what has gotten into him , and whether he has totally lost the plot . You can reminisce his glorious filmography past , but I think those days aren't going to come back anytime soon . There's absolutely nothing to like about this movie , and everything felt rather artificial with little heart . The last straw of course came when a scene toward the end was a blatant copy of The Bachelor , except that the roles were reversed . I felt that was a new low with Hark finding the need to parody others , highlighting a serious lack of ideas . Zhou Xun plays Ou Fan Fan , aged 27 ( yes it matters enough to be highlighted in the movie ) , who with her thick glasses , transforms herself from usual glamour puss to ultimate geek with Calamity Jane tendencies . Her inexplicable nervousness when touched by men , makes her all frigid , and Hark decides to make this condition very slapstick ridiculous . Yearning for a man long gone , and with her inability to attract new ones , she goes on a research experiment to design pheromone patches that can chemically induce the right man to be drawn toward her . Think of it as an airborne Love Potion No 9 . Kitty Zhang plays glamour puss Tang Lu , 31 , who oozes so much sexuality , that men cower in her presence , and worship even her fart ( OK , so I made the last point up , but you get the drift ) . Having no friends as she inevitably makes their boyfriends / husbands / fiancés ditch them for her , she's the alpha-feminist and successful career woman who's out to prove that she has more talent than the size of her boobs ( OK , so I made it up again just to spice up an incredibly boring story ) . The perennial case of looks not an issue in the corporate world , though she has some really dogged tenacity in fishing out for profit making deals , such as Fan Fan's patches , setting them on a collision course as she blackmails the latter into a contract . And to round up the trio of female lead characters , Kwai Lun Mei stars as a 19 year old internet novelist cum amateur boxer cum indie band lead vocalist wannabe , who has an imaginary Japanese boyfriend to boot . I suppose this is an unorthodox a character as you can get , and of the three , she probably has the least screen time given the distinct lack of know how on what to do with this character , given her hands in so many pies . The trio share limited scenes together , and for the most parts felt like having three different short films glued together as one . Supporting characters such as the rocker played by Stephen Fung provide that degree of separation between the leading ladies , otherwise they only come together at a hospital scene toward the end , and had a lot more to do at a restaurant and a music festival . Between all the three ladies , only Zhou Xun's character undergo some sort of internal and physical transformation thanks to her experiments in getting her out of her shell , otherwise the other two look more like caricatures , especially Kitty Zhang's , though in a way much better than being a flower vase like in CJ7 . There isn't much to shout out about the movie , and given its run time of close to two hours , there are numerous moments where it actually could have been trimmed to save the audience from the unintended torture of watching how some supposedly female characters lead their contemporary love lives , but with a man , and Tsui Hark at that , at the helm that well , it becomes a misfire with nothing to show .
A Nutshell Review : Painted Skin ( DVD )	Painted Skin is the last movie that King Hu made , and while he revisits Pu Songling's material from Liao Zai , which he last did for his masterpiece A Touch of Zen , this movie however seemed a little strange and terribly dated , with uninspiring plots and despite the power cast , the characters all came off to be going through the motions , and not injecting any life at all . I am not sure why or how this project came about , but there were a number of missteps along the way . For example , prior to this 1993 release , Joey Wong had already been type-casted for her many roles as the ethereal ghostly enchantress with her roles in the Chinese Ghost Story franchise by Tsui Hark , up to a point I remember that audiences were sick of her portrayal , and cemented her reputation as a one-act actress . Here , she gets cast again as a spirit of sorts who cannot go to Heaven or Hell , and is practically stuck in limbo . Her You Feng meets with yet another scholar type character ( do I hear the yawns and groans already ) Wang Hsi Tzu , played by Adam Cheng , but instead of the usual dashing swordsman type figure that Cheng is famous for , he takes a turn and portrays a character who's main objective is to find a woman who can bear him an heir , because his wife is found barren . Now how this develops is almost comedic - right from the start after Hsi Tzu's initial encounter with a playful priest , he bumps into You Feng , gets horny , brings her home and wants to hump her immediately . If this is not a King Hu movie , I would have fallen out of my chair laughing at this juvenile turn of events ! Painted skin refers to the makeup that ghosts put on to pretend to be humans , because they're stuck in the middle of two planes . It's always interesting to note that the Chinese believe that when you leave this world , you head straight to hell for judgement and punishment , contrary to Western believes that you get to at least line up at the pearly gates ( and gawk at the saints ) , whether or not you get to enter it after the verdict is passed is a different story altogether . When you're in hell suffering , you will start to long for the time to reincarnate ( whether as a human is also a different story ) , but that's basically the gist . However those stuck in this yin-yang domain , as this story goes , are ruled by an evil spirit called the Yin-Yang King , a faceless creature who later on has someone portraying him to duke it out with the heroes . And the battles here , while choreographed right for excitement , doesn't seem to be sophisticated enough . Bear in mind that this was in the year 1993 , where films like Once Upon a Time in China , and Swordsman II were released . Having what is perceived to be a rehash storyline and setting didn't help either , as audiences probably were tired from the female spirit-male scholar-priests-demon king connection . There's no grandeur fight sequences of epic magnitudes , or memorable scenes such as the chase in a bamboo forest . Here , chases are aplenty , more with the good guys running away from a crazed , powerful demon king , than actually engaging it in meaningful combat . We have multitudes of priest characters here , from the 2 resident bumbling , incompetent ones played by Lau Shun ( who was the evil eunuch in Swordsman ) and Wu Ma , to Sammo Hung as a mysterious High Monk who chooses to hide his identity , and a cameo by the late Lam Ching-Ying ( everyone's favourite Vampire Hunter ) as a Purple Taoist . But despite its almost A-list cast , the story was still all over the place , with flashbacks and truly strange scenes which doesn't add much depth to the story , as if to want to cover a wide breadth versus digging in for depth . If compared to A Touch of Zen ( which seemed to have its ending parodied here in one of the scenes ) , Painted Skin is unfortunately no match on all fronts , and it's actually quite a pity that King Hu should bow out with a lacklustre piece such as this .
A Nutshell Review : 9 : 56	This is a movie from Toilet Pictures . If the name of the production company is any indication how stinky a movie is , then this would be it . I think I'm not really a fan of horror movies , not that I'm chicken , but rather this year alone , I haven't been genuinely spooked by what's on offer so far , be it from the West , or from Asia . 9 : 56 is no different , great premise , but poor execution , relying on clichéd techniques ( I think these are the only tools of the trade available ? ) to try and elicit some heart thumping moments . Se-jin ( Ko So-young ) is a lonely career woman , who one day notices that some apartments in the block of flats opposite hers , undergo blackouts simultaneously at precisely 9 : 56pm everyday . No , she's no voyeur , but a series of unexplained deaths in the neighbourhood , including one which she encounters herself on a subway , start to draw her deeper and deeper into the mystery surrounding these deaths . With horror movies , there's always a pseudo-logical explanation within the movie about how the spooks come about . That's just about the most interesting thing that happens in the film , the unravelling of the " Truth " , although it won't take seasoned film lovers to guess the plot halfway through . Which of course makes it a very unsatisfying experience watching this movie . There's a myriad of characters like the wheelchair bound girl , and the neighbours who take turns to care for her , as well as a schoolgirl , detective , a mentally challenged boy and a spooky train commuter . But following genre formula , these folks are there usually as fodder for deaths , or in this case , pointless red herring characters whose sole aim by the filmmakers is to mislead the audience , nevermind if they convolute , or add little to forward the plot . And don't get me started on the techniques employed here . Quick cuts , sudden appearances , long hair ghouls ( ahhhhhhh , so passe ! ) who can't move properly , copious amount of blood like it flows down a mountain for free , and the list goes on . But credit to the sound engineers for creating some ear piercing bone crunching sounds used each time the spooks move , though it seems like a one trick pony . Don't waste time on this , even if you're a horror fan . It's a complete waste of a promising premise , and in the end , you feel like you've just be taken on a ride . A very long and painful one to endure . It's high time for some innovation in this genre , otherwise one film will easily look like another , with ugly long haired monsters moving funny but with the ability to make sudden appearances accompanied by loud sounds . Oh , and can someone oil those doors while they're at it as well .
A Nutshell Review : Fate	I've become wary should any Korean movie calls itself , or touts itself , as the largest action movie for the year . Remember the woeful debacle of Typhoon ? Well , it seems that Fate belongs to the same mould , with the assembly of the best looking men the country has to offer , and put them in roles against each other , topped with plenty of angst , misunderstanding and failure from which they find it hard to crawl out from , and you have what hopefully could bring the crowds in . And not to forget too , the poster with the half-naked men laughing while showing off their sculpted abs , which had adorned our train stations for weeks before the movie's debut ( and in which a cigarette had been photo-shopped out to appease local authorities it seems ) . Song Seung Heon plays Woo-Min , a hotheaded man whose charisma and tenacity makes him the de-facto leader in his gang of four . His plan with his brotherhood of merry men , as we see in a thrilling opening , was to break into a casino's vault , and make off with the loot . They succeed of course , thanks to sheer brutality and prowess in fisticuffs and metal pipe wielding , but with betrayal in the form of Kwon Sang Woo's Cheol-Jung , they get caught up , and disbanded . Fast forward to two years later , Cheol-Jung continues as a hoodlum with a higher rank , while Woo-Min gets released from prison , bitter towards the former for his lack of loyalty . While the story might fit into a typical John Woo movie , it lacked any further set action pieces to make you sit up . What you get , in terms of action , are metal pipes upon metal pipes swinging wildly around , and that too being few and far between . Worse , it decided to dwell a lot on the typical melodrama of troubled relationships with each of their loved ones , with Woo-Min being unable to forget his ex , and taking it upon himself to lift his friends from their respective doldrums , and Cheol-Jung having a field day with an uncouth mouth , as he battles it out with his workers on strike on a failed construction project . For the most parts , these two loggerheads steered clear of each other , and the story lacked efforts in wanting to build up on their disgust for the other . It attempted instead for the audience to try and sympathize with their individual predicaments , and that they have circumstances in which they are driven to make their choices , but even so , there's a lack of connection between the two men , and the audience is denied any satisfying climax of a settlement . While the characters in general are all unlikable - going to show that it's what inside that matters - instead it brought to mind of the vultures that circle around , waiting for opportunity to pounce when the chips are all down . For that bit , I'd have to give it some credit . Otherwise it was really painful to just watch the macho men getting around trying to solve their respective wimpy issues , or just using violence as a means to an end , since after all , they're just gangsters with little soul , and you really couldn't care much about how their characters develop , and only wish for the film to quickly get to the finale of its 120 minute run time .
A Nutshell Review : Forbidden Siren	Forbidden Siren is based upon the Siren 2 Playstation 2 ( so many 2s ) game . Like most video game turned movies , I would say the majority don't translate into a different medium really well . And that goes for this one too , painfully . There's a pretty long prologue which explains and sets the premise for the story , and the mysterious island on which a writer ( Leo Morimoto ) and his children , daughter Yuki ( Yui Ichikawa ) and son Hideo ( Jun Nishiyama ) come to move into . The villagers don't look all too friendly , and soon enough , sound advice is given about the siren on the island , to stay indoors once the siren starts wailing . Naturally and slowly , things start to go bump , and our siblings go on a mission beating around the bush to discover exactly what is happening on this unfriendly island with its strange inhabitants . But in truth , you will not bother with what's going on , as folklore and fairy tales get thrown in to convolute the plot even more . What was really pushing it into the realm of bad comedy are its unwittingly ill-placed-out-of-the-norm moments which just drew pitiful giggles at its sheer stupidity , until it's explained much later . It's one thing trying to come up and present something smart , but another thing doing it convincingly and with loopholes covered . Despite it clocking in under 90 minutes - I think it's a horror movie phenomenon to have that as a runtime benchmark - it gives that almost two hour feel with its slow buildup to tell what it wants to . Things begin to pick up toward the last 20 minutes , but it's a classic case of too little too late . What saves the movie is how it changes tack and its revelation at the end . Again this is a common device used to try and elevate a seemingly simple horror movie into something a little bit extra in the hope of wowing an audience . It turned out rather satisfactorily , but leaves a bad aftertaste as you'll feel cheated somewhat . There are two ways a twist will make you feel - it either elevates the movie to a memorable level , or provides you with that hokey feeling . Unfortunately Forbidden Siren belonged more to the latter . The saving grace will be its cinematography with its use of light , shadows and mirrors , but I will be that explicit - it's still not worth the time , so better to avoid this .
A Nutshell Review : Avatar	It was once remarked by B-movie producer Roger Corman , that Singapore would make a great place for a science fiction movie ( Corman had co-produced Saint Jack , the only Hollywood movie to date filmed entirely here ) . And it's true , as we do have a number of locales that look futuristic enough for on location shoots , and more so if given the special effects treatment to spruce things up . The opening shot of the city skyline is something familiar , yet on the other hand , something rather artificial about it - It's not Singapore , it's a fictional city state called Sintawan . Avatar probably and unwittingly set itself a high benchmark to meet right from the start , by having that text crawl ( cliche ) explaining the setting of the world upon which the story is based , talking about Simplants and the police - pitting itself against cult classic Blade Runner . Director Kuo Jian Hong ( daughter of the late Kuo Pao Kun , this movie is dedicated in his memory ) might have high hopes of Avatar emulating and meeting those standards , or to achieve an indie following , however the fundamentals of having a proper storyline was already flubbed . It tried too hard to be intelligent , rather than sticking to the " keep it simple stupid " rule , especially if one is thinking of cramping plenty of tech-no-babble into less than two hours . Unlike The Matrix which seamlessly gelled simplified philosophy into its narrative , and more so as an afterthought rather than assaulting your senses while the story is being told . Speaking of The Matrix , there were also some reference to the giant network storage of persons ' identities , a Cyberlink ( probably an advanced form of the Net ) , as well as a subplot involving the police up against a group of rebels , amongst others . Avatar suffered from trying to explain too much in too little time , and will make you switch off when listening to " important " mumbo jumbo you don't ' care about , regarding some teleportation technology and identity doppelganging using biological science early in the movie , before shifting gears into presenting some huge conspiracy theory about playing God in the Game ( oooh ) . Briefly , we follow the exploits of the best ( Singapore , oops , Sintawan everything also must # 1 ) bounty hunter in the business of Simplant capture - Dash MacKenzie ( Genevieve O'Reilly ) , an ang moh , as locals don't have street cred to be leads in the movie . Actually , most of the local actors , prominent ones I must add , were relegated to playing supporting or cameo roles in this production , folks like Lim Kay Siu , Neo Swee Lin , Kumar , Gerald Chew , Richard Low and Kevin Murphy ( from S11 , didn't know he was that active in previous local productions , the other one being City Sharks , but bit role as well ) , The other main lead was an Asian actor Wang Luoyong ( huh ? ) who played cop Victor Huang , in pursuit of Dash , and under circumstances beneficial to both , begin an uneasy partnership which blossomed into some hokey romance . I think by now any self respecting ( I say this in jest ) local movie would somehow have a scene set in coffee-shops / hawker centers to get that seal of authenticity that it's made in Singapore . Diners should have no qualms that in Avatar's future , our favorite makan style of choice is still around , with shady covert dealings taking place right underneath hungry bellies . Other locations easily identified included the Expo MRT station ( no more EZ-Link cards , your palm is scanned instead ) , inside MRT trains , Bugis Junction , the area around Empress Place , Little Guilin at Bukit Gombak and even Hotel 81 ( yes ! ) which seemed to retain its perceived sleazy purpose in the movie . The acting's all very stiff , probably from the cast's lack of belief in what they're actually doing , and the unbelievable lines they have to say . For a production of the time , it's probably still stuck in a mindset that it is better to engage B / C-graded caliber ang-moh actors than to choose jolly good ones from our local scene . Not that I'm against foreign talent , but in my opinion it's quite a pain to see them going through the motions here , spewing lines of dialog which are and sound so artificial , made worse by their accents . Avatar looked like a million dollars , alas it felt like a cheap telemovie . The effects were decent though , but for scenes with extended CG or CG created backgrounds , it ended up a bit raw and looked unpolished . The costumes looked lush , especially Joan Chen's figure hugging and cleavage enhancing outfits . Some shots were done creatively , obviously so to cover up the lack of a bigger budget to get more gizmos mentioned , implied or are actually used in the film , like vehicles - you never actually see them zoom around the city . So is Avatar worth watching ? Yes , for that lesson on how not to make a science fiction film . One wonders if The Gene Generation will work out successfully , which also casted another Hollywood B-movie specialist Bai Ling in a lead role .
A Nutshell Review : The Fog	Hollywood has not gotten over its John Carpenter remakes , and The Fog is the latest in a series . From the trailers , we were teased that " there is something in the fog " , but we do not know what . And no , despite being nice to look at and all , the Fog is not at all suffocating . Antonio Island is celebrating its founding fathers , and we're introduced to the descendants of the Malones , the Waynes , the Castels and the Williams . Tom Welling ( Clark Kent in the Smallville television series ) stars as Nick Castle , the hero of the story who runs a washout boat business . Maggie Grace stars as Elizabeth Williams , Nick's girlfriend who has returned to the island and somehow feels responsible for the events that transpired when the fog descents . Selma Blair stars as Stevie Wayne , a single parent running the only radio channel up atop the only lighthouse on the island . Pretty standard fare , one-dimensional characters . What will probably keep you engaged in the movie , is the quest to discover the truth and back story to the entire fog shenanigans . A mysterious menacing looking fog arrives , contrary to physics and wind directions , and strange killings and happenings occur on the island . Age old objects like a hairbrush and timepiece turn up at the beach , and itchy-handed folks pick it up despite us folks knowing bad things will happen . But it bores you after a while , with its usual sins of the fathers theme having little depth ( ok , so it's a horror flick after all ) . It's simple , but with potential , which degenerates into almost a Pirates of the Caribbean copycat in the special effects department . And the special effects and makeup could perhaps be the only saving grace in this movie . There are loopholes in the storyline , especially the ending . You understand what the filmmakers are trying to suggest , but it just doesn't make much sense anyway . Is it frightening ? No . It's a tame pussycat in its scares , relying on cheap , loud , clanging and knocking of metal three times to signal the demise of the characters who hear them , knowing that Evil is around and knocking at your door . Any more , you'll probably go deaf with the theatre's surround sound system . If there's a movie like The Fog which can be made , perhaps someone would be bold enough to make The Mist , or The Haze in local context . Don't waste your time , you'll need strong fog-lamps to attempt to look at the good in this picture . Being a Tom Welling groupie fan , will probably help .
A Nutshell Review : Frostbiten	To think I was once avoiding horror movies because I thought I was chicken . Hell , I now believe the real reason's cause there are so many bad horror movies out there , that it's just not worth the time and money to watch them on the big screen . This Swedish movie unfortunately , is one of them . Frostbiten started off promisingly , with a link back to the horrors of WWII , where soldiers were being cut down in size by the enemies . They stumble onto an unused hut , but before they can get a good night's rest , they realize that there is something mysterious about the entire place , and got attacked by strange creatures . It's quite an extended scene before the opening title , but we get fast forwarded to today . Mother and daughter Annika ( Petra Nielsen ) and Saga ( Grete Havnesköld ) come to a new town to start life anew , but before they get settled down , it's a mixed bag of incidents which see Annika uncovering a deep dark secret in the hospital she works in , and Saga's teenage friends getting high on an experimental drug without their knowledge , and get turned into vampires . So begins a battle on both fronts as they fend off vampire rejects from Underworld . The story is nothing to shout about , being very weakly made up of lame excuses just to feature the vampires in various fang-sinking-into-necks opportunities . Plenty of things went wrong , right up until its ending , which tried to be too intelligent for its own good with a suggestive open ended ending , and it doesn't make much sense . At times , the movie's littered with humour , but in cheesy ways as it wasn't able to decide whether to be funny , or dead serious with the antics . It's nothing scary , but there were copious amounts of blood used to up the gore factor . Come to think of it , certain production aspects turned out quite childish with its lack of attention to continuity issues , although there were some sparks of brilliance in its special effects department . Other than that , if you really want to experiment with a foreign language horror movie , just wait for the discs to arrive .
A Nutshell Review : Skinwalkers	The poster may look menacing , but Skinwalkers is actually a tame pussycat . In the hands of ordinary filmmakers , this is what you get - mediocre , " have we seen this before " moments , and plenty of unintentional comedy , for a werewolf genre that tried to reinvent itself , and exhausted its game plan . To give itself a mystical feel , it developed its own uninteresting mythos about some prophecy ( not again ! ) that will come true after the appearance of the red moon . Zoom past the intertitles , and hey , the red moon ! From then on , it's Terminator-hasta-la - vista baby ! The prophecy seemed to dwell on the fate of a 12 year old boy , who is said to have some rocking puberty mumbo-jumbo happening to him ( no , it's not the sudden growth of extra hair in certain parts ) . So his mother , Rachel ( Rhona Mitra ) becomes an unwitting , uninspiring Sarah Conner clone , while relying on a bunch of rag tag team mates led by Jonas ( Elias Koteas ) , to keep them alive . Jonas and gang however , have a deep dark secret . They're werewolves , but good ones , who get strapped up before dusk so that they can be artificially restrain their blood lust . On the other hand , the bad mofos ( who are also werewolves ) are led by Lorenzo Lamas . Wait a minute , that couldn't be him ! He's still looking . . . so young ! No , it's Jason Behr , who I swear in his unshaven face , and wavy shoulder length hair , shades and bad attitude , seemed to have crawled out of a typical Lamas made-for-video movie . As with the many Lamas movies , it's almost guaranteed to have bad cheapskate action . It screams B-Flick with sirens blaring and strobe lights flashing , and frankly , Skinwalkers is nothing except that . Like I mentioned , it's Terminator all over again . Bad guys want to annihilate the kid so that they can prevent the prophecy from coming true ( whatever that is , which they have no clue whatsoever ) . In between , they kill and have edited sex , which is bad , in both sense . The good guys just want to stand in the way ( hey , we don't feed on blood , so we're cool ) and they too have no idea just in case the kid turns into some hybrid - OK , wrong movie - while we see the toughening up of Sarah Con , I mean Mitra's Rachel , that it all reeked of plagiarism . If anything can justify labelling a werewolf movie as cheap , then it is the distinct lack of on - screen transformation . The wolves just appear , in full hairy costume , bad teeth and probably stinky breath and all , without any attempts to allow a glimpse at the transformation . Not only that , the local distributors , in attempts to make money hence requesting this to be passed with a lower rating , removed all sex scenes . No wonder we see macabre , gruesome high profile killings , and low birth rates . We can't even watch sexy on screen . Bring the sexy back ! Anyway I digress . Skinwalkers was pretty bad from the get go . Hokey prophecies , cheap makeup , and horrors , guns are used with glee from all quarters , and the gunplay's probably the laziest I've seen in a long time . Laughable effort , especially when you realize the cop out made just for the bigger names in this picture . Only suitable for that DVD rental on a lazy weekend afternoon at best .
A Nutshell Review : Altered	I'd have to admit that the draw of this movie is director Eduardo Sanchez , who helmed the wildly popular and successful Blair Witch Project . Besides , this is an alien movie of sorts , and sounded something like Stephen King's Dreamcatchers , one of those movies that the critics hated , but I enjoyed . But nope , unfortunately I felt that for the most parts , Altered is a waste of time , so I shall keep this review short . Premises are always promising , and Altered's no different . It tells the story of a group of men who experienced strange encounters when they were younger , and as usual , others will take you as a nutcase imagining stuff . Stories about alien abduction always have to deal with probes into the orifices , so I shall not go into details , but you get the drift it's damn uncomfortable , and something you'd like to forget . What if you're given a chance for revenge ? That is , you manage to successfully hunt down , and capture one alive . What will you do ? For this group , it's a gleeful payback time , or so they thought . And this is where the movie begins to develop into a snoozefest , with bad , uninspiring dialogue , and even worse acting . Even if it's low budgeted , there aren't many redeeming factors , be it strength of storyline , or any help from the cast in making their characters just a tad interesting . It's the standard cardboard fare from a vanilla plain script , coupled with some cheap scare tactics employed . What's good though is the makeup . Much effort has been put into making some of the stuff which I shan't mention , because that'll spoil just the few elements of what makes this movie tolerable . Other than that , there are the usual cheap special effects , blood and gory moments which is nothing you've never seen before . Watch this only as a last resort . Compared to the other monster movie in town - Feast , this one is less fun , and takes itself too seriously . Bogged down by an uninspiring direction , you've been warned .
A Nutshell Review : Dragon Eye Congee : A Dream of Love	This film actually had a one-off screening at GV cinemas last year . I was raring to go watch it , until I found out that it was sold out real fast because fans of Fann Wong were flocking in droves to see their idol in action on the big screen . Nonetheless I had to settle for the DVD , courtesy of movieXclusive . com . Perhaps the only good thing about this movie , is how the dragon eye congee looked so appetizing . I felt hunger pangs as I watched Fann Wong serve bowl after bowl for her screen beloved , and observing with those longing eyes as he slurps it all down . Dragon Eye Congee : A Dream of Love , looks and feels like a telemovie . And being a predominantly Taiwanese production , expect the usual television melodrama and weepie moments coming on to try and manipulate your emotions . Sadly ( no pun intended ) , the movie while beautiful to look at and filled with wonderful cinematic shots , lacked the very soul that it wants to preach about - love . There's nothing too deep in exploring that emotion , and what transpires is a romance that's too good to be true , and exists only in children's fairy tales . Written by Yang Bo , I felt that the short story on which the movie is based upon , would have been more interesting than its cinematic vision , directed by Allen Chang . In fact , you could totally forgo the first hour of the movie , as it has little to do with the remaining 30 minutes , except to take a very long time to set the stage . The casts , probably hampered by the weak script , never really had a chance to lift the movie from the doldrums , although their acting were passable at best . The leads Fann Wong and Shaun Tam rarely looked believable as the inseparable Romeo and Juliet , totally lacking in chemistry to convince that they are a match made in heaven . There is perhaps just too many characters for a simple story like this , which can't decide if it wanted to be flashback based , introducing new supporting characters who are in the movie for just that few minutes of screen time , and never important enough to further the plot . While the idea of a role is hinted at , most of the time it's just a simple gloss over and never going deep enough to make them memorable . However , the music used here , if you dig the Chinese orchestra , might serve as a plus point to you . Though I can't fault the lovely melody , it being used repeatedly does get on your nerves , as too much of a good thing just reduced the utility gained from it . If you would like to give this movie a try , then go ahead and tell me what you think . For fans of Fann , her performance here is nothing spectacular , but you might want to check it out if you're being a completist . Code 3 DVD comes with no extras , besides the usual English and Chinese subtitle selection . Audio and visual transfer seems ordinary , and nothing to shout about .
A Nutshell Review : 252 Signal of Life	While a movie like this would likely contain a tragedy of epic proportions and a celebration of the human spirit , one can't help but to laugh at its missteps , overwrougt melodrama , and sheer ridiculousness of an ending that probably insults the professionalism of the uniformed group it wanted to put in good light . It becomes an unintentional comedy of errors that just makes you shake your head knowingly that it could have been something more interesting to begin with . 252 : Signal of Life is just that , a code that rescue forces ( or at least in Japan ) use to inform everyone of survivors , galvanizing resources and to propel some lung bursting morale and adrenaline to rescuers who are risking life and limb for strangers that they do not know . But first they have to get their original mission statement through to the top brass whose concern is for the safety of the men under them , and risk taking becomes a tedious exercise , frustrating to the men all eager to perform a job well . I thought this tussle against the backdrop of an ongoing disaster would serve as an interesting fuel for thought , especially meaningful when it tries to examine how these folks put others above self , and family beneath others at times , and had an extreme opportunity to debate over self-preservation , and to wonder the immense courage that it takes for one to do just that . Instead , we get melodrama , plenty of tears and frustrations lashed out amongst colleagues , friends and strangers , that it becomes too tiring , and most of the time for nothing . For actor Hideaki Ito , one who has cut his teeth in disaster-rescue flicks like Umizaru and its sequel , his role here as ex-rescuer Yuji Shinohara might seem like a walk in the park . If not for his brooding of a sin of the past , and his good looks , he's an extremely cardboard character , which is what most of the other characters in the film are made of . Only Ayane Omori who stars as his deaf-mute daughter Shiori stole the show at every scene she's in , though the good work was destroyed by the story which decided to exploit that character for some Kleenex moment . I can go on about other characters in the film that continue to be unappealing such as Sachiko Sakurai's very teary turn as Mrs Shinohara , but the one which takes the cake , and probably chief villain for her incompetence , is Yu Kashii's Saki Umino the weather girl who has really poor forecasting skills . The filmmakers here lacked the courage to have people bumped off . Not the anonymous extras that are in the background ( those die en masse ) , but each deadly scenario the leads got put through , they lacked the confidence to shut the door on the characters , making it again highly repetitive in crafting how one survives death defying moments due to sheer luck , but only after some moments of unnecessary tension that the same trick just becomes overused by the time the third scenario rolls around . What's more of a sin was how the finale was one really draggy affair , allowing opportunities for more chest-thumping , affirmative actions like nodding , saluting , shouting , crying , and just milking all that's worth from an 18 minute window when the eye of the storm passes by . Speaking of which , the special effects turned out to be less than spectacular . It showed off some eye-popping moments of gigantic tidal waves enveloping the streets of Tokyo , but it dried off really fast through some awesome drainage that the city has in its streets and underground network . Visually , it was more interesting to see how all the extras in each scene just run about the set in the background trying to look busy and act with a sense of urgency , while the cast in the foreground are feeling anything but that . As I mentioned earlier the finale was overwrought with cheesy melodrama that unnecessary dragged out the ending , but the moment which took the cake was how hundreds of rescuers would just gather round and do nothing but the care-bear-stare . Powerful stuff that . 252 : Signal of Life had moments where it could have struck a fine balance in presenting an action-packed flick if it could have tightened up some of the incessant repetition ( like how long it took for massive floodwaters to fill up a subway station , and there are only so many ways for extras to find themselves facing with a gush of water ) , and to have given itself enough time to explore the human dilemma of self-preservation versus the call of duty . Instead it became an unnecessary comedy filled with cardboard yet invincible characters .
A Nutshell Review : Anna & Anna	Earlier this year , there was a casting call for extras to be in Anna & Anna , with the presence of lead actress Karena Lam , and looking at the film , it would have involved being night club revelers in a darkened pub watching local band Ronin perform . This Singapore-Shanghai co - production , written and directed by Aubrey Lam , is surprisingly full of art-house sensibilities , but with all the wrong reasons in doing so , making this less than 90 minute film feel like a plodding dinosaur , hinging on the acting prowess of Karena Lam and Lu Yi ( Jasmine Women , Seven Swords ) . Karena plays Anna & Anna , and may I add , & Anna once more . Anna One is an executive with an extreme love for blue eye shadows . A Singaporean sent by her manager ( played by TV actor Huang Shi Nan ) to Shanghai for work , she finds this an opportunity to rid herself of her wimpy boyfriend , Billy ( Tender , whose name befits the character ) , a band member whose long hair betrays his effeminate nature . Here's an alpha-female in a power suit , but inside , she's still nursing a longing for her old flame Ouyang ( Lu Yi ) . Anna Two happens to be an artist , with a chic short pageboy hairdo ( ok , this is to differentiate between the Annas ) , and surprisingly , is hooked up with Lu Yi's Ouyang . Questions are abound as to timeline , and whether they are the one and the same , or different people who just happen to share the same pretty face . Anna Two's no alpha-female though , and seems to be one who's emotionally tormented by Ouyang , and so begins , the incessant questions of identity that begged to be answered . The narrative started off promisingly with such possibilities of exploring into doppelgangers , identities , and especially on love , whether we will tend to gravitate towards people of similar characteristics , or in more shallow terms , physical looks ( hey , remember the Vaughn-Aniston vehicle The Break Up , and the ending for that ? ) . It set up interesting standoffs such as who's the original , and who's the substitute for the heart , which will probably make for some unconventional romantic story drawing from life experiences . But alas , the movie lost its plot halfway in becoming too schizophrenic for its own good , especially when Karena's Anna One decided to chop her locks off , and the film had to rely on technicalities to cue the audience . What it degenerated to was failure to capitalize on its prince and pauper moments , and became was a woeful reflection of self-pity by all characters , and this without unnecessary meandering through timelines . Which was actually guilty in trying to introduce and sustain the backstory , and hence my interpretation of the hypothetical Anna Three , which I felt was there just to extrapolate the running time to qualify this as a feature film . Shave away the unnecessary extras and half - baked ideas , and this would have been watchable at the very least . However the actual end result we get is a soulless film with soulless characters that we don't give a hoot about .
A Nutshell Review : Cinderella	No , this is nothing about that fairy tale with the pumpkin coach , fairy godmother and the glass slippers , but if I were to elaborate , I would have to spoil it for you , which I won't . But don't let curiosity get the better of you , as this movie is not fantastic . It's one of those movies that start off promisingly , before betraying its audience with cheap scare tactics and an incoherent storyline . And that's real horror . Yoon-hee ( To Ji-Won ) and Hyun-soo ( Shin Se-kyeong ) are your ideal mother and daughter . One's a successful plastic surgeon , while the other your dutiful , obedient , and beautiful teenage daughter . Their relationship is like hand in glove , so close you'd think of them more as siblings rather than parent-child . But things start to go wrong ( don't they always ) when Hyun-soo's friends , whom Yoon-hee has operated on , start to go berserk . Perhaps it's a warning to audiences , and for those Koreans ladies who don't bat an eyelid when going under the knife , if news reports are to be believed . The only truly scary moments are those scenes in plastic surgery , though somehow , I thought Kim Ki-duk's Time actually had more gore when featuring and describing what goes on during the surgery itself . It's a tale of two halves , the fist being an attempt to shock audiences with standard scare tactics , which , I admit , did get to me now and then . However , the second half degenerated the movie into mindless mumbo-jumbo melodramatics , and was quite contrived into its forcing its ideas down your throat . Some things begin not to make sense , and while attempts are always presented to explain , you probably won't buy it , not that horror movies are logical to begin with . The leads are all beautiful , and there is a distinct lack of male presence besides the negligible cop role . But hey , I'm not complaining , though the storyline could have been improved tremendously . I'd recommend you to watch this , only if you're a fan of mediocre Korean horror , on VCD . Watch out for those face off-ish moments !
A Nutshell Review : Lovewrecked	My friend CK asked me to go along for this movie , as he's a huge Amanda Bynes fan , having followed her television series What I Like About You , and both of us agreed upon her comic potential in She's The Man , which was a pretty fun gender bender movie . With a title like that , there's nothing too cerebral about Lovewrecked . No , it's not a doomed spoof of the Love Boat , but the teenage romance here is quite as cheesy and predictable . Bynes stars as Jenny Riley , and we're quickly introduced to her character's idol worshipping of screen pop singing sensation Jason Masters ( Chris Carmack ) , going totally bonkers during his concert , much to the detriment of best buddy Ryan ( Jonathan Bennett ) . During their summer job at a Caribbean resort , she finds herself caught in a man-overboard situation with Jason , and the two of them thus began a Robinson Crusoe life - until of course Jenny discovers that they aren't really shipwrecked on some remote island at all , and keeps this as a secret from Jason . When her love rival participates in her little charade , it becomes like the reality TV series Survivor , where each have to outplay , outwit and outlast the other in order to get the affections of the lone pop star . Directed by Randal Kleiser of Grease and The Blue Lagoon fame , this movie too had Bynes strut around mostly in bikinis , the apparel of choice for any girl working at a resort / stuck in a desert island . Bynes still haven't lost her comic timing , however here she's let down by an extremely weak story , and an even more disappointing lack of laughs from the stilted comedy . There are comedic situations which either make you laugh , or make you laugh from how bad it is . Sadly Lovewrecked had more of the latter , and for one scene , had to rely on the toilet humour favourite of the fart sequence . As for the other characters , they're basically all one dimensional . The catty love rival , the handsome scheming nice - on - outside - unethical - on - inside pop star , the pining buddy , the mean resort manager , the horny colleague , the arrogant star assistants and minders , the list goes on . The Riley parents were such throwaway characters that you wonder if their inclusion was for the sake of extending the run time , which clocks in at a short 86 minutes . So unless you're a true blue Bynes fan , or have that penchant for teenage romance movies , do steer clear or you'll find yourself getting pretty bored at predictability .
A Nutshell Review : Meet Dave	One wonders if Eddie Murphy has lost it . I still remember his early days in action comedy back in Beverly Hills Cop , flashing his pearlies and making wisecracks , being the rather unorthodox cop that he probably would be toying with continuing the franchise to revive flagging fortunes , just like how Stallone went about adding to his Rocky and Rambo mythos . We all know the comedic streak in Eddie , and he does a fine job in voicing animated characters . But while he seemed to have exhausted playing multiple characters in The Nutty Professor and Norbit , he now has to play himself in , well , himself . As a spaceship that is . In true Star Trek design and style , Eddie Murphy plays the Captain of a group of tiny humanoid aliens , who have built a spacecraft in the likeness of the Captain , and sent on a mission to extract all of Earth's salt to save their own back home , through an orb like object which is currently in the hands of a human child ( Austyn Myers ) he coincidentally befriends when his mom ( Elizabeth Banks ) hits him in vehicle accident . So begins an adventure on Earth where the unfeeling alien beings slowly find themselves affected by all that is life , from music to emotions like love and friendship . Director Brian Robbins , who helmed Murphy's previous movie Norbit , somehow didn't deliver this movie to its potential given its scattered focus , unable to decide to go all out in becoming a comedy , or a drama with its clichéd believe in yourself values and message . While Norbit was deliciously wicked in its political incorrectness and went totally riot with it , Meet Dave seemed to have tote the line of being boring without even trying . It didn't have any inkling of attempting to elicit genuine laughter , and all its potential had already been shown their hand in the trailer . Yes , the best bits were there , and left nothing new to the audience when sitting through the rest of the 90 minute movie . Granted that there were some pretty nifty special effects in the film , those doesn't save Meet Dave from itself . It has an interesting premise , and had enough poking fun at conventional pop culture and icons such as Apple , but these come too few and far between , and seemed rather hurried to get everything loop closed so that they can move on and end the movie . With impatience like that build in the script to have everything wrapped in 48 hours , it's no wonder should the film had dropped plenty of its intended depth ( if any ) and chose to make itself fast and loose , and somehow along the way , unfunny . I'd sure like to Meet Dave properly , and not have to suffer a quick hi and then bye .
A Nutshell Review : Shaolin Girl	Ever since the success of Stephen Chow's Shaollin Soccer in 2001 , he's been asked time and again whether a sequel was in the works . There still isn't , but he sort of franchised the idea out to the Japanese and served as executive producer , so the outcome of the deal , was Shaolin Girl . However , the net of it all is that while the intent for a quasi-sequel is there , having the Japanese play characters experts in the classic Chinese form of martial arts might seem a little wrong , just like how the hue and cry came about with Chinese characters portraying Japanese geishas . But if the source in contention was treated with respect , I guess there would be no qualms moving forward , though with the way things were treated here , you would've pondered whether it was done in jest , or in mockery . For instance , the numerous Bruce Lee homage . Yes , we all know about all things yellow , so it's a no brainer here . But to have a lookalike come out as a villain , dressed in a white singlet , black pants and emulating Lee on the nunchuks , was a tad below the belt , especially the way he was disgracefully dispatched . A friend of mine said it was perhaps a kick in the face toward all the imitations and wannabes , but I'd like to think otherwise . The finale look straight out of Game of Death where our alpha-female do battle floor to floor encountering various martial arts masters , but come to think of it , they were dispatched with incredible ease . And don't get me started on the corridor of mirrors too , which served no purpose other than to show that the filmmakers can . Lead actress Kou Shibasaki ( from Crying Out Love In The Center of the World ) in the titular role looks good and cute for the part in order to draw in the crowds , and granted she has no martial arts background ( ala new female warrior Jeeja Yanin in Chocolate ) she makes up for it with artificially choreographed grace that made her a little believable . What's not believable , was her ability to speak Chinese , and the Shaolin monks as well , because they are clearly Japanese , but had to pass off as experts in the language , which came off as unbearable and laughable . You might think that director Katsuyuki Motohiro , with his Bayside Shakedown pedigree , would be deft at handling stories with multiple subplots . However , Shaolin Girl bitten off more than it could chew , and couldn't decide what it wanted to be . On one hand , it wanted to spread the love for Kung Fu , or specifically , the Shaolin brand of fist-fighting . On the other , it had to reflect on its supposed predecessor and fuse in a sport different from soccer ( here it's Lacrosse ) . And it wanted to weave kung fu into the game , only to hold back to prevent itself from being a clone . So while you get a sport , there isn't much copycat kung-fu styles and stances , until the end credit roll when it became obvious . Shaolin Girl Rin Sakurazara was sent as a kid by her grandfather to China's famed Shaolin school of martial arts to learn to curb and control her wealth of potential , promised power . What this power was , nobody knew , except that everyone knew she had to be protected from the villains lest she gets tempted to go to the Dark Side ( yes , so very Star Wars ) . But she returns upon completion of her training to revive her grandfather's dojo , and does so in quite an impetuous headstrong manner , that she has a few lessons to learn herself , such as humility , camaraderie and teamwork , before she can impart those martial arts lessons . However , despite all that talk about teaming , it still boiled down to a one-woman whackfest for the last act . If you're looking for some serious fighting , then the first two acts of the movie will bore as you only get teases spruced very much by special effects , some bits too , especially those involving Lacrosse , got too repetitive . Kitty Zhang , Chow's new muse from CJ7 , ends up in this movie too to provide some lesbian undertones ( ok , so I chose to read it that way , but think about it ) . and although she has a meatier role here as a naive do-gooder , the role still boiled down to a flower vase in cheongsam . And if you're patient and were waiting to be rewarded with some proper combat for the finale , be prepared to be disappointed too . For all the talk about her prowess , you'll laugh at what Rin pulled off . Not that it's a comedy and you're supposed to chuckle , but you're laughing at its delivery instead , for all the wrong reasons . Never have I seen something that hokey , and anti-climatic as well . Not only that , the fights were unimaginative and , horrors , boring too , while the villains were all reduced to mindless goons ala Crazy88 style , with some tendencies to caress man boobs , and totally unmenacing , with lead villains having zero motivation other than to desire to fight . I nearly fell off my seat when it ventured close to The Promise territory with its take on the tykes . Even supporting appearances by characters from Shaolin Soccer couldn't save the day , and became ridiculous caricatures of themselves . Perhaps what could rescue Shaolin Girl , was a cameo by Chow who probably might have upped the credibility of this flick , but alas , knowing that it would stink , he rightfully kept his distance . And so should you , unless you're a fan of either Kitty Zhang or Kou Shibasaki , then you can lap up all the close-up shots .
A Nutshell Review : See No Evil	WWE ( or WWF back then ) stars are no strangers to taking that leap into the movie world , with legends like Hulk Hogan starring in B-movies like Suburban Commando and Thunder in Paradise , or more contemporary figures like The Rock starring in various action movies like Walking Tall and The Scorpion King . Not only the lead roles , but they take on smaller bit roles like Diesel's stint as The Russian in the Marvel comic book movie The Punisher . Being a heroic or an evil character doesn't matter , as they entertain in the wrestling ring switching allegiances and trade karma like changing underwear , and since it's mostly action movies , the acting chops are not required , as their physical presence more than make up what's lacking , not that they don't do a lot of acting in ring though . See No Evil stars WWE's Kane as a psychotic killer with a penchant for digging out the eyes of his victims . Some which you'd get to see on screen , some which the censors deem too graphic for an NC16 rated flick and left on the cutting room floor ( better luck with M18 or R21 I'd say ) . Anyway from those scenes , it looked as if it's so easy to claw anyone's eye out ( is it really ? ) . So with his assortment of weapons like the axe , the hook and chain , or just his bare hands with brute strength befitting a 7 footer , he cuts one mean looking reject from the recent The Hills Have Eyes zombie character . I hate to use a classic as a comparison , but suffice to say that the premise stinks of being a poor man's cousin of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho filed with generous doses of MTV styled quick cuts . Instead of Bates motel , you have Blackwell Hotel , together with the suggestion that it is the all domineering and crazed mother whose warped upbringing nurtured humanity's monster . Taking yet another swipe at religious zealots too , as flashbacks show the young psycho kid being tortured by a mom who cages him and the punishment dished out for looking at porn ( hence the title see no evil lah ) . Packed into the movie are the various fodder for him to maim and kill . Character development , or at least the attempt in trying to weave in a tale of revenge , seem to be abandoned halfway , as characters start to drop off like barflies . It doesn't take you too long to realize who's on which side , and who'll survive ( according to horror slasher flick lore that the blondie and those having sex must die ) given the clichés . Starring relative unknowns as a bunch of inmates sent to the Hotel to perform cleaning fatigues , it's a pity that most of them were not given glorious cinematic deaths in a movie like this . Perhaps with movies like Hills Have Eyes , the Saw franchise , and Hostel , we're all a bit jaded from the rehashed dark and dankly film sets and throwaway characters . There's nothing new presented in this movie , and is only made for Kane's fan base . Even then , with so little of their star seen in the flesh , they might as well be better off with his exploits in the wrestling ring . Stay tuned until after the initial end credits roll for a cheeky scene , which absolutely will never happen in the ring against Kane .
A Nutshell Review : A Big Road	The man in the Citibank diner advertisement would probably tear his remaining hair out at A Big Road since it is a true blue " arty-farty " film , and his dinner date probably got the reaction right as well . I had held out getting tickets for this world premiere , and if Kan Lume's Female Games was screening instead , no prizes where I would have put my dollars at . But that film was withdrawn , and the buzz for this was building , and I had to check out what it's about , no ? Of late we have a number of Singaporean filmmakers who have ventured overseas and made feature length films , from Science Fiction ( Gene Generation ) to Drama ( Slam ! ) and even documentaries to tie in world sporting events like the Olympics with efforts like Mad About English and Boomtown Beijing , and also not forgetting my favourite film-making duo of James Leong and Lynn Lee who have made gems like Homeless FC and Aki Ra's Boys , with their latest film ready some time end of this year , so that's something to look forward to . Alec Tok would be a name to add to this list of growing filmmakers spreading their wings abroad with this debut effort . A Big Road chronicles three women in Shanghai , and from the get go at the lengthy prologue at the Shanghai Railway Station , it screams art , requiring plenty of getting used to with its focus-out-of-focus shots within the frame , cuing you into certain points , yet inevitably raising questions just what was going on . I tried hard to concentrate , then let go to follow the flow , but tried as I did , I just couldn't grasp what the intent and meaning was , if any . The scenes floated from one to another , relying a chock load on your own imagination to fill the pieces in between . We see a lady dressed in a white coat drifting around in a voyeuristic fashion as if in limbo in our world , whose point of view consists of specific colours on people , and is probably the chorus to this artificial play as we see what she wants us to see . Which also includes two feuding families at a dinner table , a particular Mrs Zhao purchasing a new born baby girl from poor villagers , and Xiao Fang ( Liu Hongli ) the kept woman who's sold by her own mother for profit . While you can see immediate parallels in the plight of women whatever their ages being sold for money , one can't stop wondering what Alec's intent was , and it's always curious when a man crafts woman-centric stories and scenes especially when they fail to resonate and get the intended emotions through . It's one thing sticking a camera and letting it record on a long , extended take , but another if wanting to communicate emotions . Time was felt heavily , and sad to say no time was properly invested to develop and establish characters as they came and go in a generic , blur fashion . The mid-point was especially amusing when some folks decided to use it as a break to answer phones / visit the toilet / stretch their legs . It reaffirms that girls do take an extremely long time to dress up , putting on and putting off , looking at oneself at the mirror preening , and this went on for some 10 minutes . From then on the film switches gears even when the engine's not ready to shift up , with a flurry of scenes coming and going involving a man wanting to break off an engagement ( check out that Tak-Giu T-Shirt , Jacen ! ) , and decided to go all Man by dealing with a Father's love , with flashbacks from his death bed , which turned out to be emotionally dry . Characters were crying , but the damage was done and you'd just don't care except to wonder when the brakes will be pulled , though one still had a mahjong scene to navigate through . A Big Road may be too wide ( in the number of issues it wanted to showcase perhaps ) and too long , and without clear directions , is risking alienating an audience from it and losing them . That Citibank diner guy would have new found friends .
A Nutshell Review : The Nun	This week's surprise screening at GV turned out to be the horror movie The Nun ( La Monja ) . Seriously , I think that horror movies should try and come up with more imaginative titles , even though the story's about the character as described in the title . Who knows , soon we'll have spinoffs like The Monk , The Priest , and others belonging to various religious sects . The basic premise goes very simply , that a ghoul dressed up in a Nun garb ( so that it can lay claim to the title ) goes around killing ex-convent girls . There seemed to be some sort of conspiracy involved , as the daughter of one of the victims , Eva ( played by an eye candy Icelandic Anita Briem ) , goes on to discover , with the help of a few good friends , like a rip off of I Know What You Did Last Summer ( mentioned also , by the way ) . So as the body count increases , it's a race against time for our emotionally scarred ( aren't they always ? ) heroine to uncover the truth and save the day . Delving into the sins of the mothers , the movie did the unthinkable , that with a dream sequence as the introduction . I hate dream sequences as it's a pretty cheap technique if not done correctly , and there are a couple of them in the movie . In part , the movie played at times like Ju-On gone wrong with the plenty of Dark Water references , and they could have retitled this Unholy Water , for the circumstances and plot points in the movie . However , there are plot holes abound , so don't be looking into the storyline too deeply . You'd come to expect the standard textbook twists towards the end about the sadistic nun , and sets which look like they can rival recent Thai horror movie Dorm . The acting's pretty forgettable , with the cast speaking in perfect heavily accented English . And since most of them are pleasing to the eye , the story must weave in a love scene in the middle of a witch-hunt . What gives ? Hello , got hantu , still got mood ah ? Then again , the ghoul is a pretty cheap animated / SFX which has a built in AI of popping up every now and then , in various fashion , just to elicit screams from timid audiences . The characters also break every unwritten rule in the Do-Nots in horror lore , so you know and expect their just desserts . Can you possibly enjoy this movie ? Sure you can . Just ensure that you're watching it in a full house ( should be easy , since local folks are suckers for anything remotely horrific ) , and laugh at those who are so jumpy they scream at every " frightening " scene . It's pretty fun , and adds to the atmosphere , besides what's going on the screen . Surround sound doesn't even come close . Think of it as watching an episode of Scooby Doo without the wisecracks , and it's a pity that the gory moments in the movie had to be censored for a PG rating . Those could possibly have been the best bits , now left rotting on the censor's floor board .
A Nutshell Review : Hidden ( Cache )	If I'm asked to recommend a film with style but no substance , then this movie will be it for the year thus far . So much have been raved about the direction , that the storyline is left hanging deliberately . Perhaps there's not much of a story to begin with ? We start off with a motionless camera capturing from afar , a series of apartments . Precious minutes go by as the credits start to roll , until someone hit the rewind button , which is when you realize you're watching a tape . Or rather , the married couple Georges ( Daniel Auteuil ) and Anne ( a bloated Juliette Binoche ) are . Some twisted mind has sent them a video of their apartment from across the street , though it is frigging ' impossible to do so without them , or anyone , noticing a high-end good quality voyeuristic cameraman doing so . So you get more and more of such tapes being sent over together with childish pictures of incapacitate heads spewing blood , some with different settings , or clues , which Georges decides to investigate by going on-site . What happens , I will not reveal , but it is boring just to watch them go about trying to find out who the perpetrator is . The plot gets more and more absurd , so much so that you'll be screaming for it to end halfway through the movie . The premise gets terrifically set up , but the delivery has so much more to improve . It is disappointing . From the trailers , you feel that you're up for some good old thriller with satisfying twists . But what you get is a painfully slow movie , which tries to conjure and allude France's history with the Algerians . The saving grace is probably both Auteuil and Binoche's performance , as a husband who finds it impossible to reveal his past , and therefore causing extreme tension with his wife , who finds it almost impossible to trust . There's a full scene in which a boy hacks up a chicken's head , and the camera lingers until the chicken dies . This is what this movie is , a headless chicken running around in futile , boring audiences until its end . The plot is like Georges ' character when he was almost knocked down by a cyclist - exhibiting great bravado with his initial challenge , but when challenged back in return , cowers and wraps up with the tail in between its legs . Pah !
A Nutshell Review : Dragonball Evolution	Hollywood plundering Japanese pop culture isn't something new . From " Americanizing " television series for the kids from Power Rangers to Ultraman , and adapting famed characters from Japanese film , games and manga to frequent disastrous effect , it still wouldn't stop the studios from going after one property after another . This time round it's the long running Dragonball series , because the assumption is that the built-in fan base would translate to instant dollars at the box office . Not . You have to give the filmmakers a little bit of credit though , being either foolhardy , or just plain ballsy . It's a given that they cannot condense and distill the rich content into a surprisingly less than 90 minute movie , and live in the hopes of producing a sequel , or to generate a franchise ( i . e . don't leave the cinema hall when the end credits start to roll ) . But what they successfully do , is to super-summarize the entire mythos by throwing out everything except the main gist of the entire manga , making it extremely simplistic in poor lazy-man standards in adaptation . For the uninitiated , the film would serve as a quick launchpad to the original manga . For those with a wee bit of knowledge of what it's about ( like myself ) , the film just treads along the same lines and doesn't offer you new information . For the fanboys , I guess you'll only get some kicks at seeing some of your favorite characters come alive , only that they look more Caucasian , and have a head full of hair when they're not supposed to ( someone forgot to insist that in the contract ? ) That's all you're gonna get . Period . As far as film-making and story-telling techniques go , you can see cliché after cliché being thrown at you , with the poorly and cheaply rendered special effects offering no consolation . Justin Chatwin's Goku is your typical teenager who possesses innate potential yet to be realized , and in his frustration he gets treated by peers as a loser geek . He lives with his grandpa Gohan ( Randall Duk Kim in stereotypical know-it-all like in Kung Pu Panda ) , and develops a crush on school hottie Chi Chi ( Jamie Chung ) . Goku's calling in life is to prevent an apocalypse from happening with the return of chief cardboard baddie Lord Piccolo ( an instant shoo-in as one of the worst cinematic villains , ever ! ) and his temporary sidekick Mai ( Eriko Tamura ) who attempt to collect 7 dragonballs to fulfill an ancient myth . And of course Goku needs a Fellowship , in the form of irritating tech-wizard Bulma ( Emmy Rossum last seen in the sinker Poseidon ) , mercenary Yum Cha ( Joon Park who probably copied Rain's uninspiring cinematic turn in Speed Racer to a T ) and Chow Yun-Fat the biggest name of them all here trying his darnest best to act cute as Master Roshi , who imparts skills in double quick time to Goku . Speaking of time , or the lack thereof , everything is compressed . From two weeks to two days and the day of the blood moon shielding the yellow sun ( OK so I made that up ) , everything moves at so fast a pace , that all you get are cheesy lines of dialog , and an excuse to paste some action sequences together . And James Wong certainly can't direct action ( despite being at the helm of Jet Li's The One , which was of course bland and bad ) , opting to pay homage to Zack Snyder's slow-mo technique , and midway changing the style to having the camera being too close to the action , in the dark , coupled with quick MTV cuts that you don't get to see a thing . And the rush job just doesn't stop at the narrative or the action . Special effects wise , they look really cheap , and I wonder whether Producer Stephen Chow would roll his eyes at what would be extremely pale when put side by side with his Kung Fu Hustle done many years ago . Ayumi Hamasaki's contribution of the theme song Rule sounded really bad as well ( I may get flak from her fans ) , and I guess having some Asian participation doesn't legitimize what is essentially a poorly done movie . Not even Chow Yun-Fat's star status could save this , and you wonder what figured when this is the movie that he gave up Red Cliff for . This is basically a movie that only children below the age of 5 will enjoy tremendously , despite having to see 6 half-balls , contributed courtesy of the 3 lead female characters , being continuously flashed on screen , thanks to some neck plunging wardrobe ( where's that malfunction when you need one ? ) Totally bland and really uninteresting , I would suggest sticking to the manga instead .
A Nutshell Review	The trailers may have fooled audiences into believing , like the rest of his films , this is a laugh-fest . The funniest bit in the theatrical trailer is nowhere to be found in the film , as are other scenes too . One wonders if they were trimmed for run time reasons ( this clocks in very close to 2 hours ) , but the decisions to have kept whatever made it to the theatrical cut , were strange indeed because they were very tired jokes , recycling some from Jack's past films , and most turned out to be terribly expected , cliché and rancid . The story's a simple one , running along three arcs keeping all the characters distinctly segregated with little interaction between them . Henry Thia's Bo Seng and Yeo Yann Yann's Jia Li are husband and wife of many years , and they experience marital woes of not being appreciated and witnessing their sex life evaporate . Throw in some male ego-centric anxieties , and that sums up the first arc , a subject matter that Jack had tackled with That One No Enough . Alex Leong plays their son Benny , a nerd who is infatuated with the school belle Jennifer ( Natalli ) . Rehash I Not Stupid 2's mobile phone moments , which is the crucial plot element here , coupled with technology , instead of blogs , to video hosting sites , with a dash of scintillating sex scandal , and there you have the issue of the bedroom voyeurs of today . The third arc involves Seng's god-brother Jeremy ( Jack Lim ) , a good natured person with a penchant of helping anyone , but harbours a perverse hobby of porn surfing and trawling online sites for , you guessed it , sex . He meets Benny's teacher Ms Wong ( Cheryl Lee ) when posing as a parent , and struggles to woo the woman of his dreams , while grappling with the hopes of meeting up with his latest online acquisition . This arc had some potential even though it was coasting along the predictable , but got bogged down by an elaborate hoax , and poor delivery , plodding all the way to the end which lacked suspense , was expected and everyone waiting for it to just happen . Precious minutes could have been shaved to pace it tighter , and its Hard Candy / Audition moments just cheapened the story many notches down . Henry Thia has to date played supporting roles with some of the best speaking lines , but to headline a film , that's something new . While most will associate him with being the comedic dim-wit , he continues his dramatic streak from Money No Enough 2 , though of course you shouldn't be looking out for award winning performances . Yeo Yann Yann is grossly underutilized here , being no more than a menopausal " auntie " who has husband issues to settle , no thanks to gossipy friends . The one who stole the show here , is Jack Lim . And unfortunately I believe many of his comedic moments got left on the editing room floor , which is a pity , because there were glimpses on what he was capable of in the comedic and dramatic department , but alas , his character here , like all the others , are caricatures . The two youngsters in the movie were extremely painful to watch as well , with the lack of charisma and acting ability , that one wished that their screen time would be severely limited . Cameos by Mark Lee who plays a Thai gigolo was a much welcomed addition , and Lai Ming continues to be a Jack Neo film favourite lately , with " Lao Zha Bor " absent despite being featured in some stills . Production values were surprisingly average at best . While many have chided in the past that his movies looked and felt like tele-movies , I shan't deny that this one reinforces those sentiments . I had no qualms about the quality of the audio , which I suspect a number of dialect speaking moments were redubbed to make it Mandarin-friendly here , until one really awful ADR hack-job of a line spouted by Benny really turned many people off . You can literally hear the bewildered groans in the cinema , and I felt that this corner shouldn't have been cut . Really poor execution again . Love Matters is far from being Jack Neo's best film , and given his worry of having it rated N16 , which has its impact already felt when the evening sneaks at a heartland cinema where his traditional fan base hails from , only had it 33 % filled , I think it might struggle to make a dent at the box office , which his previous films had done quite effortlessly . Given the economic glum and the appeal for family friendly comedies during the festive season , audiences may vote with their wallets for something a lot more entertaining . I would recommend this only if you really have nothing to watch this week .
A Nutshell Review : Mr Bean's Holiday	Rowan Atkinson's Mr Bean first burst into mainstream TV prominence in this part of the world sometime in the early 90s , where half hour episodes containing skits of that famous character cut through all boundaries with its humour - by not having Mr Bean speak ( or speak minimally , and when it doesn't matter ) , and set in simple , identifiable premises , he's able to reach out to all , regardless of language . It's been sometime since new material came out , and the TV episodes have been relegated help past time in waiting areas of clinics or government offices . The last big screen outing Mr Bean had , was quite painful to watch , and nothing good came out of it , especially that irritating movie theme song by Westlife which polluted the airwaves . So why did I subject myself to the follow up movie , and possible the last Mr Bean outing in Mr Bean's Holiday ? For the hope that it can bring back fond memories experienced when the television skits worked , that we can see the nonsensical , anti-social Mr Bean in his rude glory . However , it was not to be . In summary , Mr Bean has won a local raffle , which sends him to Cannes for a holiday . In true Bean fashion , everything goes terribly wrong , no thanks to his own stupidity , and he spends more effort trying to make up for lost time in getting to the fabled beach holiday . If you really break it down , the movie contains a series of set pieces which are skits stitched together to form a feature length film . The same old bag of tricks are recycled , as you terribly need great patience to sit through yet another Mr Bean hopping tantrum . There are rare funny moments that you can count with one hand , but nothing genuine . Most attempts at laughter were pretty contrived . Perhaps the few scenes that were fun ( not funny ) was Willem Dafoe hamming it up as the self-indulgent writer-director-producer Carson Clay at the 59th Festival de CannesPopular characters have a shelf life . Mr Bean's probably up , and it's time to put the character to rest . No point flogging an old horse to make a quick buck .
A Nutshell Review : Balls of Fury	Balls of Fury is a movie that takes the mickey out of martial arts movies , throwing in a few cheap laughs , and nothing more . Like bad movies with plenty of cheese that adopts martial arts like Mortal Kombat and DOA , Balls follows the usual formula of having a prodigy fall from grace , only to be thrusted into a mission that involves prior intense training , and meeting with an adversary who in turn is skilled by the same martial arts teacher , so that the finale is a fight of values . Often there's a secret weapon involved too , and there's no other direct reference I can think of except that this backtracks all the way to Bruce Lee's Enter the Dragon , which the other two movies probably had traces of too . There's a tournament organized for the best of the best to pit their skills in , and the gladiators come from all over the world ( so that you can include some poor geographically based comedy , in this case ) . Like Shih Kien's character in Enter the Dragon , you have an enigmatic megalomaniac as the chief of the tournament , held in a mansion , and in no time , our hero ( hey , just for another Bruce Lee related reference for the heck of it , Jason Scott Lee's in this picture as well , though only as a supporting cast member ) will discover its dark secrets , and kick the living daylights out of everyone to escape . Except that in Balls , it is a ping pong / table tennis tournament , and the master of tournament is Feng ( Christopher Walken , and I have no idea what's he doing here too ) , with assistance provided by Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , who is relegated from a similar head honcho role in the Mortal Kombat movie . And leading the charge to break into the tournament , is one time table tennis child prodigy Randy Daytona ( Dan Fogler ) , a disgraced player now a fat shadow of his past formidable self , persuaded into the competition by a Secret Agent FBI man Agent Ernie ( George Lopez ) for the purpose of some serious federal investigations . The comedy here is a bit tired , and most of the best bits were already included in the trailer . You have the usual sexist jokes involving sexy female characters , like the conveniently named Maggie ( Maggie Q , doing so little and wearing even less ) , tired fat jokes , and plenty more from the blind sifu Master Wong ( James Hong ) , whom I thought had probably the best lines in the movie , nevermind that most of them consists of faux pas martial arts philosophy full of sexual innuendos , and plenty of politically incorrectness coupled with slapstick physical comedy . But what went into effective overdrive , were the increasing attempts of sleight-of-hand moments in misdirection , which were spot on and timed perfectly . Other attempts though fell flat , especially those trying to recreate the spirit of nonsensical moments by the Abrahams-Zuker comedies , such as the inclusion of the sex slaves . However Balls turns out to be pretty bland overall , and the storyline already well summarized in the trailer . Don't expect too much , and you might enjoy a chuckle or two . Otherwise rent this instead .
A Nutshell Review : Street Fighter : The Legend of Chun-Li	Made in collaboration with Capcom , I think someone probably thought enough time had past and the past stinker forgotten , and to follow suit in a franchise milking programme like what Marvel and DC had embarked upon , a reboot is in order and the current buzzword . So just like how the characters in Street Fighter hail from all over the world , the production too has input from everywhere , like actors in the West and in the East , being filmed in Thailand and having Indian producing input as well . It's like a melting pot of cultures collaborating in breathing life into a possible franchise should this film prove to be successful . But chances are I suspect it'll at most hit the direct to DVD route after this . It's a little surprising that the filmmakers opted for Chun Li instead of the signature character of Ryu . Maybe they have faith in Kristin Kreuk , better known for her Lana Lang role in Smallville , to pull in the fanboys , or once fanboys , of the video game . But as it turns out , while she may be a looker , and her personal grounding in gymnastics and martial arts do help , she's ultimately let down by a weak plot ( ok , so that's expected ) and some very weak supporting characters . On the side of the good , you have Cheng Pei Pei in a one scene cameo , who does nothing but to tell her to go to Bangkok and live like a pauper , useless cops with Chris Klein as an Interpol cop Charlie Nash who's basically cardboard and Moon Bloodgood ( love that name ) as a Thai policewoman Maya who just preens and purrs , and Robin Shou as Gen , a mystical David-Carradine-Kung-Fu knock off with long grey hair . As if the villains were good enough , being nothing but bland and uninteresting . I thought it was a good spin on things to have Neal McDonough's Bison being a corporate raider with his Shadaloo organization , aided by lesbian femme fatale Cantana ( Hong Kong's Josie Ho ) , a very underused Vega ( Black Eyed Peas ' Taboo ) and Michael Clarke Duncan's Balrog , who's more like a relegated Kingpin of Crime from Daredevil , now playing sidekick . Like Robin Shou , who also once had leading role status , I feel that this film was like a collection of would be has - beens waiting for another chance at the big league . If there's any cause for celebration , then it might be Edmund Chen's role as Chun Li's dad Heung . From Ivan Heng to Adrian Pang to Fann Wong and to the coup of seeing Chin Han having possibly the role of his life in The Dark Knight , Edmund Chen looks set to follow in the latter's footsteps , but only up until some stuntmen unceremoniously took over almost all his fighting scenes , even those that require him to perform some non-life threatening qi - gong stances . The body double is really too obvious and one can tell it isn't him at all . So shave off some 50 % of his " appearance " from the film . Street Fighter : The Legend of Chun Li is a straight forward film without much depth in its story , and it's relatively lower production budget translates to many of the jazzy special prowess in the game being considerably toned down . Perhaps director Andrzej Bartkowiak's intention was to have it more rooted to reality , but therein lies the danger see , because this film has tremendous parallels with that of another super-powered movie called Elektra . Both have recognizable female actresses in the lead role , and they share a plot involving secret organizations , mystical healing , an experienced teacher to learn the ropes from , and plenty of hokey martial arts . Even the training sequence looks super summarized , uninspiring and filled with unremarkable , clichéd dialogue . Having said that it was more rooted in reality , that doesn't mean there weren't fun opportunities for some game-like signature moments . I had enjoyed how Bison power packs his punches and kicks , just like in the game but without any glowing-blue glove to visually enhance it ( just throbbing sound effects ) . Chun Li doesn't appear in her iconic qipao , but makes up for it in one scene where she has to execute her Tenshokyaku , the spinning bird kick where she inverts herself and spins her legs like helicopter blades , and dons her hair " ox horns " style . Other than that , her costume's pretty much well suited for the heat and humidity of the Bangkok temperature , as well as the usual black ensemble made hip by X - Men . It had tried to be more cerebral in crafting a father-daughter story between Chun Li and dad Heung , Chun Li and her master Gen , and that between M . Bison and her daughter Rose . But anything in depth has no place in the film as it opted to be more fleet-footed that even a three year old could follow . It's an origin story , and depending on which camp you're on , you may or may not agree with some of the tweaks made here to accommodate the film version of things . Despite being called " Street Fighter " , the fights here are nothing too fantastic or memorable , and looks comfortably in place with many B-grade action movies out there , with the occasional lapsing into the crutch of having the fight scenes edited in double quick time . I suppose the filmmakers had tried their best , but there's a lot of room to try harder and come up with a better product . The lead to the sequel involves a martial arts tournament , but please don't go down the same road as Mortal Kombat and the likes . Come up with a proper and stronger story , and perhaps , we could get a chance to see a franchise being developed , straight to the cinema or DVD market . I'm willing to give it a shot , even with or without Kristin Kreuk returning .
A Nutshell Review : The Last Legion	There are many adaptations and versions to the tale of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table , with Merlin the sorcerer , and of the magical sword Excalibur , some versions which set it into stone , while others , handed out by a lady in the water . The Last Legion is essentially touting a story about the beginnings of Excalibur and how it took to the former . However , it took a long route to tell this story , going all the way back to 400-something AD , a time where Rome is in turmoil . Actually Rome is in turmoil ever since Julius Caesar got killed by friends , Romans , countrymen . In a time where generals scheme to usurp the throne and politicians of the Senate are corrupt as hell , it's little wonder why one of the best and most loyal generals Aurelius ( Colin Firth ) gets recalled to protect the rear of the new boy-king-god-Caesar Romulus Augustus , played by Thomas Sangster ( the kid in Nanny McPhee and Tristan and Isolde ) . Naturally the enemies spring a surprise attack , and our merry men have to flee Rome , and journey to Britain to regroup with the 9th Legion ( henceforth also known as the Last Legion ) , bringing in tow a seer Ambrosinus ( Ben Kingsley ) , and a lady warrior in Mira ( Aishwarya Rai ) . Like most medieval stories with elements of magic or involving the higher powers from Mount Olympus , The Last Legion does away with the sorcery portion , like what Troy and King Arthur had done , opting instead to focus more on reality , and what possibly could have been done without divine intervention , or fantastical assistance . Thus this makes Kingsley's role a little redundant , and relegates him into a fortune teller rather than an all powerful wizard , despite his garb looking a lot like Gandalf's . While it could have gotten away with its material given 10 years back , unfortunately the stakes in the genre have been raised , and everyone's expecting a spectacle of huge armies battling in hand to hand combat , with its combatants having some form of fancy killing moves . The Last Legion pales in terms of providing that level of detail and spectacle , and chose instead to provide unsophisticated battle scenes , or swordplay that is a tad too uninspiring . Most of the fanciful moves were reserved for Aishwarya , but even that too began to become repetitive . Not even her booby trapped enhanced short sword offered anything we're never seen before . With characters you don't really care about , what made it a little unbearable amongst the good guys , was the totally hokey , unbelievable romance between Rai and Firth's characters . It doesn't mean that having characters from the opposite sex means they find each other irresistible and want to get into each other's pants . There is absolutely zero chemistry and zero buildup . One minute they're allies , the next they're admiring each other's swordplay , and then , the bed beckons . And if the villains justify what kind of heroes we get , then it's a no brainer that they are bland and devoid of any interesting notion . World domination seems to be their only objective , and both the Romans and the British ( using the term loosely here ) villains are merely caricatures . As I said , while The Last Legion might have worked if it's released 10 years ago , this movie can't justify it being made now . It's suitable at most for that DVD rental for a lazy afternoon , but nothing more , and only if you're in dire need of some , or any , form of entertainment .
A Nutshell Review : The Wild	2006 is the year of the animal animation . Earlier in the year , we had the local stinker Zodiac Race , and over the next few months , there are offerings like Over the Hedge , Barnyard , Happy Feet ( no doubt inspired by March of the Penguins ) and Open Season . It's an animal world out there in the world of animation . I'm not too sure why this was made . Sure , the graphics were photo-realistic and crisp , and it had the usual elements of modern day animated flicks . But I guess it's time for filmmakers in this genre to realize that the substance of the story is of paramount importance too . Then again , it's meant strictly for kids . However , even a 3-year old kid who attended the same screening as me , sensed a deja-vu , and didn't take too long to realize that it's so " Madagascar " ( 2005's offering from Dreamworks ) . The premise , if you strip it all down , is also about a group of animals from New York Zoo who made their way ( so the motivations might differ slightly ) to Africa , where they meet nasty native animals , and engage in plenty of mindless song and dance . The Wild also adapted a few more plot elements from its own library like The Lion King , and incorporated the father-son seeking acceptance relationship from last year's died-in-its - own-hype Chicken Little , and borrowed the " I am God , worship me " plot from Ice Age 2 . What gives folks ? I'm aware of some rumours that the filmmakers between the Wild and Madagascar split , and those who jumped shipped to Dreamworks managed to get their product out in the market first . Still , having two movies battling each other , doesn't work well for the one released later . The first half of the movie was bogged down by its melodrama in the fore-mentioned dad - son plot , while the second half dealt out more madcap humour . It's build up to the finale with the bulls wanting to top the food chain , sounded familiar too . There are funny characters abound , but they all lacked somewhat , especially the snake and the giraffe . The joke on the Koala , while fun initially , was repetitive and you'll really want to kick and rip any Koala soft toy out there by the time you're true . The voice talents did a commendable job with the flimsy story , with the likes of Kiefer Sutherland , James Belushi , Janeane Garofalo , and even William Shatner grunting like animals . But the lineup is quite forgettable , especially with rival Dreamworks ' offering in the horizon ( also about animals ! ) Over The Hedge ( Hey , got William Shatner too ! ) As mentioned , the graphics were great though , but the storyline just stinks . I like the way the Lions were done , could have been a showcase of what The Lion King could have looked like if it was conceived some 10 years later . But you probably want to walk out of the theatre as soon as the animals start dancing to the music in the finale . Bad rip-off !
A Nutshell Review : The Uninvited	The marketeers bill this as a modern horror masterpiece and ranks up there with recent horror stories like Ringu . I'd say phooey , it doesn't even come close , not by a huge mile . Starring probably Korea's most recognizable face Jun Ji-hyun , I'd admit I was curious enough to see how she would take on a horror story after a series of romances and comedies like Daisy , Il Mare , and possible her most popular film to date , My Sassy Girl . In fact , The Uninvited has little horrific moments in the traditional sense , and its attempts at being a psychological thriller falls flat too with its meek attempts to weave and associate itself with the unknown power of the mind . Its fault lay in not being able to provide its characters with much to do , often having them wallow in self-pity because of their scant abilities to see dead children , and in coming up with too many supporting characters whose purpose serve only one scene , and not the story . Case in point , those 2 kids often used to spook potential audiences , have absolutely nothing to do with the story at all . Except perhaps to introduce its male lead Mr Kang Jung-won ( Park Shin-yang ) , an interior designer who chanced upon them during a late night train ride , only to know of their deaths in the news the next day . Soon after he sees them sitting around his dining room of his new would-be matrimonial home , and spooks the heck out of him , enough to move back to his father's home . Again by chance he meets up with willowy Yun-jung ( Jun Ji-hyun ) at his customer's place , a mental clinic , and learns that she attends his father's church too . Yun - jung could have been an interesting character , given her mysterious background , innate shaman like powers and her narcolepsy illness which makes her faint when she least expects to . Just when Jung-won thinks he's mad to be seeing the dead children , Yun-jung seeing the same thing makes him curious enough to want to know her , and tap her shaman like powers to explain his forgotten childhood . But to get to this point was a drag which takes 90 minutes to have things move onto a higher plateau . There's plenty of unnecessary back and forth of scenes with rather plain characters populating the story , like Jung-won's fiancée , Yun-jung's estranged husband and his mother-in-law , Jung-won's father and sister , Yun - jung's best friend who's there just to provide a tragic element , and the list goes on . What's peculiar in this movie , is how it prefers to try and shock with its plenty of leaps off buildings , balconies and parapets as its preferred method of death . Even supporting characters are dispatched cleanly through this method , as if they're introduced precisely for this purpose . And it's shown by an unflinching camera too , which doesn't cut away to dampen its desired effect . I had to admit that I was in awe at how it showed head on , the crushing of a toddler by a lorry tyre . Just like that . And of course it's done by special effects , I can't help but to pause the DVD , rewind , and look at it again , thrice . You have to give credit to its technical strengths , which doesn't rely on cheap tricks like how a typical genre flick would try . But back to basics , what is required is a strong storyline , which The Uninvited doesn't have and squanders its potential . It played out like a hydra with too many things happening at the same time , or brewing in the background , with neither sub plot being developed adequately , and often left hanging and forgotten . It had a theme which could have been made primary - that of the concept of how Truth becomes , only from acceptance , and like that immortalized line from A Few Good Man , can you handle it ? But alas it's too little too late , and with its boring and unnecessary meandering , The Uninvited sinks , and seriously , it's an uninviting movie to sit through for all its blandness .
A Nutshell Review : Date Movie	That my friends , was what actually put me on a theatre seat to sit through the crass comedy Date Movie , with an incredible fat ( courtesy of a fat suit ) Alyson Hannigan gyrating to Milkshake . Like Scary Movie ( hey , written by 2 of the 6 writers you know ? ) , it spoofs its own genre of movies , and here , it's the romance genre . What's the plot ? There is no plot to speak of . It's just stringing together a series of spoofs into an 80 minute movie , drawing its material , and this list is not exhaustive , from movies like Briget Jones ' Diary , Kill Bill , Meet the Parents , Dodgeball , Meet the Fockers ( down to the kid and cat ) , Pretty Woman , When Harry Met Sally , King Kong , Hitch , etc . Some celebrities also get ribbed , like Mr and Mrs Britney Spears , and Michael Jackson . But basically , it's about a fat girl , Julia Jones ( Hannigan ) working in a Greek Diner ( familiar ? ) , having extremely mixed parentage , who falls in love with a Jude Law lookalike - Grant Funkyerdoder . She enlists the help of guru Hitch , and gets herself trimmed down in a car workshop ( don't ask ) . Struggling with constant insecurities , and extremely huge zits , of course don't help . And to make things worse , Grant's ex-fiancée Andy ( an extremely curvy Sophie Monk , taking the usual sex-kitten turns in washing cars , munching burgers , and scantily clad , if not at all ) , turns up the heat and tries to wreck Julia's and Grant's upcoming marriage . What else can I say about the acting - it's essentially non-existent . Some sequences , like the Mr and Mrs Smith one , are done pretty accurately , like right down to Brad Pitt's crew cut hairstyle . And if you're not a fan of toilet / crass humour , then you might want to give this movie a miss , especially since it plays up the scenes in the original movies , a way lot worse than intended ( swallowing sweaty chest hair anyone ? ) The only way to possible enjoy a movie like this , is like the old cliché goes , by leaving your brains at the door . There are many laugh-a-moments , but after the movie , they're mostly forgotten stuff . Good for destress after a long hard day . And I think my friend Richard would probably enjoy the Kill Bill bits , and oh my , the burgers : - D P . S . Stay a while during the end credits , there's another Mr and Mrs Smith spoof scene .
A Nutshell Review : Blood and Chocolate	From the producers of Underworld , this movie looks like a cheap cousin to the popular wolves versus vampires movie starring Kate Beckinsale . Based on a book by Annette Curtis Klause , and directed by Katja von Garnier , it's difficult not to draw comparisons because of the subject material and similar themes , this time though doing without the vampires , and sets the spotlight firmly on a group of hunted werewolves called the Loups-Garoux . Sexy sounding , but essentially a useless name for useless beings . The group of Loups-Garoux proudly stands by their tradition of being able to transform into wolves at will ( and that is their only power mind you ) , and because of their abilities and lust for blood , they are hunted down by Men with their guns and silver bullets ( who and what else ) . In order to survive persecution , they go underground and keep their identities secret , only to come out during the night for frequent partying at rave clubs ( and to pick up chicks ) , as well as attending strange rituals such as gathering in the woods to partake in hunter-prey chases with wounded men as victims . In essence , they're a bunch of self-preserving cowards who hunt in packs , believing whole - heartedly that unity is strength . As mentioned , they got unimpressive abilities which probably forces them to do so , not by choice - only remarkable agility and the preference to scale walls and run along rooftops . Led by an uninspiring , cowardly leader Gabriel ( Kylie Minogue's ex Olivier Martinez ) , he holds on to the unexplained hokey prophecy as well as the tradition of the leader of the pack to handpick a wolf-maiden to bed every 7 years . No wonder he's holding onto power without the necessity to do much to further their cause ( which is ? ) , and sets his sights on marrying Vivian ( Agnes Bruckner ) . Vivian however , being the headstrong ingénue , falls for a plain human , graphic novelist Aiden ( Hugh Dancy ) , and this is where references to Underworld come into full swing . The reluctance in the formation of a forbidden relationship from the girl with secrets , the revenge killings and the hunting down of Aiden , and with Vivian protecting her love , all reeks with familiarity . While Underworld had a rich backstory created for its characters and beings , Blood and Chocolate failed to have anything interesting in either wolf or man to engage the audience . And the execution here is painfully boring . No special effects , not even the baring of fangs , save for coloured contact lenses . It's relatively low-budgeted , and the transformation of man to beast , is so cheap , even a 10 year old kid with a no-frills video editing software will be able to achieve . Fights are confined to chases between wolves and man , and the usual scruffy fisticuffs . Don't forget the loopholes galore too after transformation , which is seldom seen on screen as it'll pose more questions . The only redeeming grace however , is the on-location filming in the streets of Bucharest , a beautiful romantic place , totally ideal for a romanticized tale of man-beasts . The soundtrack too had a tinge of Hindi ( ? ! ) music influences , which I totally enjoyed , but too bad , the film had been intrinsically destroyed by a lack of a strong storyline , plagued with non charismatic and weak villains with zero diabolical plans , with preference to hang around and do nothing , save for showing off their pitiful skills ( which I suspect is because of the lack of budget ) . With a strange title , Blood and Chocolate correctly named itself - a weird and silly mix which doesn't go down well at all . Only watch it on disc if you've got time to spare .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Hidden Power of Dragon Sabre ( 1984 )	The Heaven Sword and Dragon Sabre are two fabled weapons in Jin Yong's novel of the same name , and though I haven't read the original book , my recollection of the story goes back to the 80s where Tony Leung Chiu-wai was playing the lead role of Zhang Wuji in the Hong Kong TVB series . In fact , days were the those that I was weaned on plenty of Jin Yong martial arts stories through television . Big screen adaptations of the novels are always difficult because one has to decide just how much material to squeeze into a two hour movie . And adaptations have ranged from the arty-farty remote resemblance like Wong Kar-wai's Ashes of Time , to the plain comedic like The Kungfu Master starring Jet Li , which was actually supposed to be two movies , but had the second part canned . And some , like The Hidden Power of Dragon Sabre , just reused characters and put them into new creative spin offs , which unfortunately , doesn't make much sense in its treatment . I don't think this story is canon nor Jin Yong endorsed , since the background of some characters and artifacts have been changed . For example , the Jiuying and Jiuyang Zhen Jing manuals are not stored in both swords . Rather it was the war manual Wu Mu Yi Shu which was kept inside the Dragon Sabre . Also , combining both weapons doesn't produce laser beams like what's depicted in the movie ( don't ask ! ) but rather , the clanging of two swords together will break them to reveal the manuals . But perhaps what's more ludicrous , is the fusion of some science fiction elements into the story , with a set I swear looks like a poor man's cousin of Star Trek coupled with a roof adorned by faux pas Biblical-like chapel drawings , and some God like element from a passing of a Caucasian ! That aside , this story tells of the aftermath of that in the novel , where the Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang collaborates with the villain Song Qingshu ( Alex Man ) to attack the Mongolians , led by a Princess ( a very young Cherie Chung , in a classical flower vase role ) and General Tieh Zhen , played by Ti Lung . The imperial forces under the scheming Qingshu , disguise themselves as Ming Cult members in the attack , thereafter framing Zhang Wuji ( Derek Yee , in pre-directing days ) who is leader of the sect . Familiar Ming Cult members like the Bat King and Wuji's Godfather the Golden Haired Lion also make supporting appearances , but this movie sits squarely on the rivalry amongst General Tieh , Zhang Wuji and Song Qingchu , who becomes a Dong Fang Bu Bai wannabe with his androgynous transformation , as well as superior martial arts skills . But don't watch this movie for its martial arts or action set pieces . There are none which warrant special mention , and nothing truly groundbreaking or classical in that sense . The action scenes are long drawn , and sad to say , boring , with plenty of repetitive moves and exploding bodies . What's more , the special effects team was probably having a field day with the laser effects , and almost every battle feature so many laser beams , you will not be faulted if you think you're watching Star Wars . Unless it's the Liu Mai Shen Jian skill , I don't really recall Jiuying or Jiuyang Shen Gong being laser beam producing , and the final fight was pretty ridiculous for its light show . As with many Shaw Bros kungfu movies , the ending does leave one wanting for a more satisfactory finish , since most of them usually stop short by the time the baddies get their just desserts . If the West have their spaghetti westerns , then these are the equivalent . Some fight scenes are violent , but blood doesn't flow as much as in some of its counterpart movies . Don't get me wrong , they're still plenty of fun though , with their outlandish costumes , stilted dialogue and cheesy kungfu moves .
A Nutshell Review : Help Me Eros	I've got to admit that while I find it difficult to enjoy the works of Tsai Ming-liang and his protégé Lee Kang-sheng , there's still something about it that still draws me to their movies , perhaps in a determined attempt to try and cut through the usual droning of themes like alienation and loneliness , to discover if there's anything else that I could connect to and hang on for the duration of the movie . I thought I'd find something here , but unfortunately it degenerated into something quite messy midway , before some redemption in the finale afforded some relief . Telling the story of Ah Jie , Lee himself plays the protagonist who in a stroke of a bear market , was reduced to a pauper , having his assets like his home and car impounded by the authorities . Does it deter him ? Of course not , as he still goes back to the pound to drive away his vehicle , and continues to ignore the seal outside his apartment . He sells his belongings in an effort to try and raise whatever little cash he can , and in his idle time , he tends to his high-grade homegrown marijuana plants , which he cultivates and smokes to get high in his own little escapism from the hardships of life . In an attempt to connect , he befriends plenty of betel-nut beauties ( one played by Yin Shin as Shin ) , and stalks whom he thinks is Chyi , a lady he got to know from his calls to a sex-chat hotline , allowing him to fantasize about the hot chick with the hot voice . It's really quite pathetic though , because I thought it's always ironic that hot voices over a telephone line belong to someone other than can be labelled shallowly with the term " hot " . Or at least Help Me Eros plays along this line of generalization . The betel-nut beauties on the other hand , is a trade that follows the mantra of skimpier clothes leading to better patronage , and some 10 years ago when I was in Taiwan , this is a phenomenon that's quite true , as you pass by booths set up along highways , and these ladies in their various state of undress , try to entice you for a stop to get your regular packet of cigarettes , or to get into the habit of chewing the equivalent of gum . But this is not just a story about Ah Jie , as the real Chyi ( played by Jane Liao ) is the other character placed under the spotlight . She's horizontally challenged , no thanks to the various delicacies that her cook husband Ah Rong ( Dennis Nieh ) concocts as part of his television food programme . And indeed , it is this portion of the movie that I found much more intriguing , as it was almost documentary like . There were some nicely down parallels between how the food was prepared and designed , and the state of the characters . Like when we're introduced to Ah Jie , we see a live fish being slaughtered in an inhumane manner , clobbered in the head , before having its body cut out , and when presented on the plate , it's still bloody alive , gasping for air . I can't imagine anyone having the stomach to eat it , and this desperation in staying alive , prepares us for Ah Jie's character who is at wits end . Chyi too finds herself pretty lonely with a husband who perhaps found a new love ( with a guy ) , and while she dispenses advice over the phone , she's clearly in need of some herself . Lacking intimacy in her life , she had to resort to getting it on with a bathtub of eels . Yup , you heard me right . In fact , those expecting some eroticism might find a number of such scenes here being quite unsexy , despite its R21 rating , perhaps having those highly offensive ones edited away . Some old uncles expected to see plenty of naked flesh , but in art film fashion , these have been dealt with so nicely that they can't help but to walk off . I learnt for starters to appreciate such a film , not to try and look at it as a whole , but to enjoy the moment , where strengths of individual scenes surpass one trying to find deeper meaning in something . Particularly enjoyable scenes include one which Ah Jie and Shin go on a joyride and having their pictures taken ( you must check this out ) , and the ending which like many other surreal scenes in the movie , paints a very dream-like , picturesque postcard portrait .
A Nutshell Review : Pulse	I've watched the original movie which Pulse is based upon . As is the current trend , Asian horror movies are being adapted or remade by their western counterparts at a rapid pace in an attempt to offer something different in style of the genre to its own audiences . If you haven't watched Kairo , you might think that Pulse is genius . If you had watched Kairo however , and didn't like it , this remake will make you appreciate the original a whole lot more . If you liked Kairo , then Pulse is a blasphemy , whether or not you're a purist . While the original is measured in its delivery , keeping its cards close to its chest while the story developed , Pulse suffers from the dumbing down of plot to cater to the masses - any theme and everything is explained like an instruction manual , and this goes right down to offering some kind of a decent explanation of what exactly is happening , and creates a weak origin to go along too . From the onset , within the first ten minutes , it smacks the ideas of communication and modern day isolation so in your face , you wonder what else are they gonna cover as the movie progressed . Luckily it lasts a little less than 90 minutes , and somehow sustained interest with its nicely done special effects , which you cannot deny is much superior to Kairo , made 5 years ago . However , nifty special effects isn't sufficient to gloss over a serious lack of effort in delivery to make this be at least as creepy as the original . Contrasted with the simple effects of shadowy figures , and the atmospheric chilling mood in Kairo , which you do not get to feel at all when watching Pulse , it degenerates this movie into a level of generics . As with all remakes , some liberties are taken to create new characters , or recreate some from an amalgamation of others . From the trailers you do see iconic scenes taken from Kairo lock stock and barrel , but somehow didn't make the final cut , or was modified . There were some nice touches though , in their recreation of the dank apartment where the first signs of trouble surfaced . Are there any good points at all ? Compared to Kairo , this one is paced faster , because of its action sequences with the showing of the ghouls . So for those with attention disorder , its lack of lingering scenes will make Pulse more palatable to you . But one thing that really stuck out like a sore thumb , is its use of pop music , wiping away any sense or attempts at creating a horror movie truly dependent on mood , which is what made Asian horror stand out against the usual western horror movies in the first place . All in all , I think it's about time remakes cool off the factory floor . If anything , Pulse should generate some interest on Kairo , and allow those who backtrack , discover the genius of the original Kiyoshi Kurosawa masterpiece .
A Nutshell Review : Turistas	Turistas is a clear cut Hostel wannabe . The similarities are obvious , with a group of backpacking tourists having the time of their lives , only to have their vacation cut short after taking advice from outsiders , and find themselves in compromising situations which threaten their lives . It's a race against their aggressors as they try and escape . . . doesn't it all sound so familiar ? The slasher genre cannot be more overcrowded than now . With franchises such as Saw and movies like Hills Have Eyes , Hostel , Wolf Creek and son on , we brace ourselves for more , with the sequels of the previous two mentioned movies coming out soon . I guess such movies , filled with sex and violence , will continue to be made until the box office start to show signs of severe dents and become unprofitable , and hey , I'm not complaining , until now . While you have to tip your hat off at the attempt at tying in urban legends ( which could be true ) about missing personnel and the sweeping statements made at organ donation , the execution ( pardon the pun ) of this movie , is nothing short of basic formula - sex and nudity at the beginning ( though nothing much to see ) , followed by plenty of blood , gore and violence to end it all . In fact , the build up takes so long , you wonder if they had forgotten all about the need to put the characters under some form of duress and emergency , remembering to do so only in the last 30 minutes of the film . Even then , this movie is a walk in the park compared to its more gruesome counterparts . Boasting only one major gory scene which will be likely to make your stomach churn , everything else is a long stroll to making things happen . In fact , having a director of underwater photography credited in the opening , is warning enough - there is a severe overindulgence of underwater scenes , which is neither interesting or exciting , and dragged on for too long . With its inadequate lighting and repetitive actions of surfacing for water , this is perhaps candidate for worst non-action-sequence-ever . If you must scratch your itch in watching a gory movie , then hang on to those precious dollars until The Hills Have Eyes Again . Unless you're a fan of the Las Vegas television series , then you might want to check out one of the rare big screen outings of Josh Duhamel ( who plays Danny in the series ) . Otherwise , wait until Michael Bay's Transformers hit the big screen , he's in that one too .
A Nutshell Review : Tashan	Summer season is here when the choices in the cinemas are limited to what's the hottest movie of the week , given 99 . 9 % of the screens dedicated to screening it . OK , so I may exaggerate on the percentage , but you get my drift . Besides stuff from Hollywood , Bollywood too have their own share of highly anticipated blockbusters , and from some of the trailers shown , I'm hyped to watch them too . Tashan was billed as one of THE most highly anticipated for 2008 , but I was quite surprised at the lower than low turnout at the cinemas . When I watched Jodha Akbar , it was a full house , but it wasn't for Tashan . After watching it , I knew why . It was entertaining , but it was fundamentally weak . Just like it's literal English title , which means " Style " , Tashan is all style , but little substance . Not that it doesn't have the usual star power , but scenes felt forced , and some bordered on a tad ridiculous , even for Bollywood standards I must say . Which is quite surprising given that Tashan is directed and written by Vijay Krishna Acharya , who wrote Dhoom and Dhoom 2 , both of which I enjoyed tremendously . In his rookie directorial outing with Tashan , while you can't fault his direction , you'd probably scratch your head over the plot , which was clunky at best . It tried to force too many things into the story , though credit be given where it allowed you some avenue to question character motivation , but that came a little too late , and only toward the finale , which left you guessing for just a moment before it latched into full blown action mimicking many a Thai action movie , with Hong Kong's wirework and Hollywood's ludicrous firearms and gunplay with zero recoil . And in a bid to include everything including the kitchen sink , you have an assortment of vehicles appearing , and the one that took the cake , in a Dhoom 2 homage , was the jetski boat in the middle of nowhere . At best , Tashan can be enjoyed as unintentional comedy , and this is attributed to how the cast hammed up with their characters . Saif Ali Khan plays Jimmy Cliff , a call center executive who gives English tuition , only as a platform for fishing out new girlfriend material . His playboy ways gets junked aside when he meets with Pooja Singh ( Kareena Kapoor ) , who's not exactly who she seems , the meek and sweet natured hottie . She engages Jimmy's services for her boss , mobster Bhaiyyaji ( Anil Kapoor ) , who probably gets most of the laughs as he speaks broken English and phrases must like how an ah-beng does it . And to complete the quartet , Akshay Kumar plays Bachchan Pandey , an illiterate gangster for hire who got engaged by Bhaiyyaji to hunt down Jimmy and Pooja when they escape with money stolen from Bahiyyaji's business . So begins a road trip of sorts , with friends who turned enemies , and enemies whom you know will become friends as the road trip wears on . Jimmy Cliff is probably the most implausible of all , because he goes from zero to hero , executing moves that would shame Rambo , in absolutely no time , which is quite out of character . Kareena Kapoor amps up the sex factor as she uses her charms to guile both men , and has plenty of opportunity to do so given the much touted bikini scenes , and other costumes that boast of plunging necklines or hemlines way above the knee . Every character has a backstory created , and I thought Akshay Kumar's Bachchan Pandey was probably the best , the most touching and the most fun of the lot , even though his character seemed a lot like a non-green Incredible Hulk with his gravity-defying leaps and power packing punches . His wounds also heal automatically , which impressively puts Wolverine to shame . And the best part is his theme song , which is damn alpha-male and played in ra-ra mode each time he takes on adversaries . But sad to say , that's the only tune that is memorable , something that cheers " Bachchan - Pandey-Bachchan-Pandey " . For most Bollywood movies I watch , I will usually be able to , despite the obvious language gaps , emerge from screenings humming a tune or two . I wasn't able to do that after Tashan , because the songs unfortunately just weren't catchy at all . Usually the song / dance routine works well into the storyline without any necessity to bring the characters out of the current scene or location . That I enjoy , versus plucking them out and plonking them into extreme settings high atop a mountain , or atop jagged rocks on the beach front . Tashan probably didn't take itself too seriously , but coming from Vijay Krishna Acharya's story , you probably wanted something a little more decent rather than the ridiculous , and for continuity to be a little more careful as well . Billed as a blockbuster , now I can start to understand why the crowds have already shunned this one . Despite Akshay Kumr stealing the show , Tashan could have been better on the whole .
A Nutshell Review : Ultraviolet	I hate to say this , but Ultraviolet is this year's Elektra . It's a bad hybrid of Aeon Flux , Underworld , Resident Evil and Elektra combined using the production style of Sky Captain , shot against digitally created scenes . Not that it is bad though , I actually sincerely believed , from the trailer , that it had potential to be a really good Milla Jovovich vehicle . Sadly , I was quite disappointed . While Charlize Theron and Kate Beckinsale had ample opportunity to prove their action chops in skin tight Lycra in Aeon Flux and Underworld respectively , I thought Milla already had proved hers , in Resident Evil , and The Fifth Element . Here , she plays Violet , a vampire-ish humanoid with the really strange technologically enhanced prowess . Directed and written by Kurt Wimmer ( who actually did the cult hit Equilibrium ) , Ultraviolet takes what's currently the talk of the down - epidemic disease ( ala Resident Evil ) , which had mutated and infected humans , and after a number of hokey mambo jumbo , some humans become a race of Hemophage , aka humans with vampire-like abilities of stealth and such . Anyway don't bother yourself with the " science " behind this film , as it's sci-fi fantasy anyway . Just enough to know that Violet is on a quest against a dictator ( ala Aeon Flux ) , but circumstances turn her own against her when she decides to intervene and save a boy called Six . Six is this movie's Leeloo , a being who can cure Hemophages , or kill them , or kill Humans , or , what the heck ! Violet plays surrogate mom ( because of her past ) to Six , and the two form an pseudo-mother-son relationship , as she does battle against the authorities , and her kind . Just as you thought , from the trailers , that the action will be uber-stylish . There are a number of cool things , like Violet's clothing changing color like a chameleon to suit her environment , and her virtual-turn-real weapons with endless bullet rounds reloaded from the veins in her wrists , which you gotta see to believe . But here's where the problem is . She's indestructible , like a female Terminator who just keeps going . What put me off were the many fight scenes which just didn't happen . It's lazy , she's that good , but still ? You see one woman up against countless villains , and the next minute , they all fall down dead . Without seeing her move a muscle . what gives ? And there are dozens of " mega " fight scenes done in the same manner , which became laughable instead of cool , bordering on the absurd . What is unforgivable too is the finale fight scene , done 90 % in the dark . Yes , to prove a plot point and for some out of the ordinary action , but grr . . . Surprisingly , most of the effects were done by a China digital production team , which made me wonder why this was leaps and bounds ahead of The Promise in terms of effects . It's also a crew team mainly of Hong Kongers and Chinese , makes you wonder about the progress made in China though on film production . Slick effects , but let down by an ultra-weak plot , and cop-out action sequences . Just for those curious , this movie was shot using Sony's high-definition digicam , and coupled with the post-production , really made Milla's skin look absolutely fabulous and flawless in simulated soft focus . I think it's already a staple to have a shot of the actress's butt in skin tight Lycra , as did Aeon Flux , Underworld , and this movie too . But cool shots do not make a good movie , and an extremely bad plot makes it worse . Having bad action just makes it harder to swallow and digest . However , don't worry Milla , I still love you : - ) Cool Trailer + Hot Trailer Music = Awesome promotional material . And that's the only thing you should remember the movie by .
A Nutshell Review : One Night Husband	Anyway the two movies presented were a hit and a miss , and One Night Husband turned out to be a bad miss . If many in the audience had their eyes closed at one point or another , or become fidgety in their seats , my opinion is that whatever is transpiring on screen , doesn't have enough of what it takes to hold an audience's attention . While the production value is good , it adopted the look and feel of an art movie about contemplation , isolation , and whatever that you would reckon the need for long silent moments . It begins with enough mystery to sustain anyone's attention - a newly wed couple consummating their marriage , except that after doing the deed , the groom walks out of the home after receiving an anonymous phone call . This leaves the bride Sipang ( Nicole Theriault , a Thai pop star ) perplexed , and she becomes anxious in finding out where her husband disappeared to after days of absence . However the movie seemed to junk this plot aside for a preference to dwell into her seeking of help from her brother in law Chat ( Pongpat Wachirabunjong ) and his wife Bussaba ( Siriyakorn Pukkavesh ) , and from hereon , the focus is on the friendship developed between the two women , and probably if it fell into directors who are seduced by the GLBT themes of late , the relationship will dwell deeper than the platonic level . While the loose ends do get tied , the journey is trying . Unless you're a serious art movie lover , you might find many scenes in the movie pretty contrived and probably trying too hard . Essentially , the entire story is short film material , bloated only to include beautifully filmed moments of the mundane .
A Nutshell Review : Life Can Be So Wonderful	This film is anything but wonderful . Consisting of five short films by Minorikawa Osamu , it's one of those pretentious flicks that try to pass itself off as art , and there's nothing worse than stringing together a series of short films with nary a common theme and passing it off as a feature film . Sure , there are the usual notions of loneliness , solitude , melancholy and the likes that it would like to pass off as , but sadly , neither is the individual shorts or the sum of the whole remotely good . The five shorts are also clumsily titled , and they are " Life can be so Wonderful " , " Bar Fly " , " Her Favourite Solitude " ( isn't that a tad too obvious ? ) , " Snusmumrik Liberty " and " Reasons to Live " . In most shorts , shots of nature and the natural environment are included ad nausem , trying nothing more than to make up for time . The stories are a bit of a yawn too - the first short tells of the struggles and exasperation of an aging nude model , the second an alcoholic man's passion for the bottle , the third features two lovers in bed talk ( and for a rare moment I thought the nudity was unnecessary ) , and the fourth tells the story of a pregnant woman and her lover ( Ryuhei Matsuda who did Nightmare Detective ) . Only the fifth contained some semblance of coherent story , but it was too little too late . The stories have nothing fresh to offer . Too many narrations , too many poetic quotations trying their very best to impress . But seriously , it tries too hard to connect with the audience . Or maybe perhaps it was so successful with the exploration of its themes , it managed to alienate itself from a regular audience . And those today can't wait to bolt for the door once the end credits start to roll . Only recommended if you want something uninspiring or badly shot to test your patience .
A Nutshell Review : The Mystery of Oberwald	The Mystery of Oberwald is a made of television movie , done in video before being transferred to 35mm . As introduced by Lorenzo Codelli , this movie reunites actress Monica Vitti and director Michelangelo Antonioni since their last collaboration in Red Desert , some 17 years earlier . During this while , Vitti became a fairly successful comedic actress , while Antonioni was like a globetrotter having films made in the UK ( Blowup ) , US ( Zabriskie Point ) and having a documentary done in China about China on the invitation of the Chinese government of the time . The movie was shot for state broadcast television , which was appealing to filmmakers at that time because it was increasingly difficult to raise funds for theatrical feature films . And if Antonioni wanted to make a film to dabble with video technology , then perhaps he had achieved that goal . Technically it had employed many tricks of the trade through its cinematography and editing , but what strikes you most is the use of colours in the movie to accentuate mood of its characters , through various changes and transitions , with contrasting hues and tints used which dissolves every now and then . When used at the great outdoors , the generous shots of nature were given a life of its own , and in those terms , makes it a very beautiful film to gawk at . If only the story could match up to its technical strengths . Based on the play " L'Aigle a Deux Tetes " by Jean Cocteau , it's no wonder that the movie played out exactly like a stage play . To make things worse , the dialogue was excruciatingly painful to sit through , perhaps being a period piece , we have to make do with characters speaking in more elaborate terms and beating around the bush . It could be another case of having its nuances lost in translation , but if that's the case , then the subtitles really did the story no favour . The situations the story unfolded were rather unconvincing , and quite dry . Unfortunately too that Monica Vitti wasn't able to arrest you with the special x-factor that she possessed in the earlier Antonioni movies , and looked rather tired in her role as The Queen , who has rather queer habits . The story picked up early when a pursued Sebastian ( Franco Branciaroli ) ended up breaking into the castle at Oberwald to perform an assassination of the Queen , only to have fainted before carrying out his mission . The only saving grace for him , is his resemblance to the late King , and herein lies his ticket to get out with the Queen still nursing a longing , and takes a natural liking for Sebastian . In between an unlikely , unrealistic and unconvincing romance is thick politicking between the Queen and her enemies , chiefly the Archduchess whom we never see on screen . There's much talk about fate and destiny and the likes , but that's only when you can tolerate and get through Act One which happens to be mostly a monologue where the Queen rants to an unconscious Sebastian . Certainly The Mystery of Oberwald in my opinion is not one of Antonioni's best , nor does it come close to being something quite memorable . This movie currently ranks as my least favourite of all the Antonioni movies watched to date , and elevates my other Antonioni disappointments as masterpieces to be celebrated .
A Nutshell Review : The Shoe Fairy	FOCUS : First Cuts is a series of films showcasing some of the works from up and coming Asian directors . Supported by Andy Lau's Focus Films , we'll be seeing a slew of 6 movies , the first being the Taiwanese movie The Shoe Fairy , starring Vivian Hsu and Duncan Lai , directed by first timer Robin Lee . The Shoe Fairy is a modern day fairy tale . One which isn't kind to its genre to begin with , highlighting the evil witch and wolf characters and their impending bloody demise in each tale . The Chinese title " Ren Yu Duo Duo " will already hint about the fairy tale from which this movie draws its inspiration from , with " Ren Yu " being mermaid ( in this context ) . Like the Little Mermaid , Dodo ( Hsu ) looks normal , except that she cannot use her legs . A miraculous operation allowed her to walk again , and slowly she develops an obsession with shoes . Loads of them . Girls would probably squeal at the variety of shoes on display in the movie , and I tell you it's a really wide range . Dodo felt that shoes are her first love , and wondered if shoes are indeed her happiness in life . Being weaned on fairy tales from young , it seemed that shoes are perfectly capable of providing her that happily ever after ending , until she meets Smiley , the dentist ( Lai ) . The movie becomes one of those saccharine sweet moments where boy woos girl , boy marries girl , then what ? Perhaps it has a deeper message in its arty-farty feel , but somehow that feeling did not come to me . Give me conflicts , which the movie does , but sidesteps it somewhat . We see how much one treasures something when one has it , and how one emotional spirals downwards when one loses it . I must say I didn't expect it to turn in that direction though , before resuming itself in the theme of hope . What didn't work for me was the usage of a narrator - Andy Lau . Sorry Andy , your narration's a bit difficult to follow , and I somewhat dislike movies with narration that explains the story - we can see the visuals you know ? Also , the strangely huge English and Chinese subtitles were so badly done - not aesthetically pleasing , and full of typos . Someone never did their homework ? While the visuals were stunning ( it did win a Golden Horse ward for Best Art Direction in 2005 ) , I felt the special effects quite cheesy , and the plot being a little weak . While it showed promise in its slow start , the second half was a torture to sit through , where it tried to develop the characters in too short a time left . This movie will probably appeal to hard core fans of Vivian Hsu , who probably haven't seen their idol on celluloid in a long time .
A Nutshell Review : Barnyard	Talking animals . Only in animation do you get away with having animals exhibit identifiable human traits , and speak like we do . Of late , with the success of many Disney and Pixar movies , this year alone we'll see a bumper crop of talking animals in animated flicks from successful ones like Over the Hedge , to complete flops like The Wild , and have in the wings , an Open Season Flushed Away with Happy Feet . And we have here , a George Orwell Animal Farm gone totally wrong . While the animals here exhibit similar traits as suggested in the literary classic - they hold regular town hall meetings , have a system of governance and work ethics , these animals prefer to walk on twos , and have cows leading the pack rather than pigs ( and the widely held belief that they are lazy ) . Best of all , they are the perennial party animals , in both sense of the description . They party all night long in the barnyard , transforming it to their discotheque , and strut around the farm on their hind legs when the farmer goes away . However , this movie is a lost sheep . The story doesn't have a clue to its direction , and because the plot is running around like a headless chicken , the movie , at best , is made up of disparate scenes jointed together rather haphazardly . It lacks a good story to tell , seemingly borrowing familiar elements from The Lion King , and even the weak idea from Chicken Little about the relationship between father and son - here between the Cows son Otis ( Kevin James from Hitch ) and Ben ( Sam Elliot ) , who heads the farm . Writer-Director Steve Oedekerk , who wrote the screenplay for comedies like Bruce Almighty and The Nutty Professor , seem to fall short of providing the laughs for the animals . The best bits are sadly all provided for in the movie's trailer with the animals ' gags on the human characters , and what's left in the movie are the less than powerful dramatic bits . Every sub theme or sub plot seem to be a quick hack job just to extend the run time , and doesn't add any depth to character or story . The only saving grace to the Barnyard is the perfect animation , which is pristine , crystal clear , and too polished for its own good , and somehow lacked heart and soul . It is one thing to have excellent art , but it seemed more of a cover for the lack of a sustainable engaging story . Watch it only if your kids bug you to bring them to the movie , especially since cutesy chick characters are used as bait . And oh , somehow watching cows strutting around on two legs and exposing their udders , seem kinda sick , and especially so when these cows are supposed to be bulls , and are mistaken by kids as " mother cows " . Great start for the young ones on gender bending .
A Nutshell Review : Scary Movie 4	I'm a fan of campy grossed out politically incorrect comedies , so films like Top Secret ! , Airplane , Hot Shots and Naked Gun , are right up my alley . For some strange reason , I never did watch any of the past Scary Movies , save for the bits shown in various trailers . And I'm sad to say that Scary Movie 4 , is unfortunately , not very funny . Sure , it contained the usual barrage of explicit toilet humour , sexual innuendos in the dialogue , and plenty of sight gags involving genitalia , but I guess too much of something will make you sick of it . And that's what happened with SM4 . The main leads of Tom Ryan ( Craig Bierko ) and Cindy Campbell ( Anna Faris ) find love despite having to separate because of the Tri-pod alien invasion . Each took a different path - Tom in keeping his family alive during the carnage , while Cindy has to undertake a mission to discover the truth behind the invasion , after being tipped off by a faux-speaking Japanese ghostly kid who can't walk backwards down a staircase . Doesn't make much sense , does it ? It doesn't matter actually , with comedies of this genre . But you got to admire the scriptwriters for almost seamlessly including the many references and scenes from so many thrillers and horror movies , and weave them all into one complete narrative , never mind if it doesn't make much sense at the end of the day . It's not easy collating the recognizable scenes , and piecing them together . The main bulk of references would have to come from Spielberg's War of the Worlds , Ju-On , Saw and The Village , just to name a few . Real life personalities were also not spared being buffooned , like Tom Cruise , Michael Jackson , Shaquille O'Neal and even George W Bush ( played by Zucker regular Leslie Nielsen ) . Maybe the franchise is running out of steam , or the references the movie pulled from were not very interesting as spoofing material to begin with . I wouldn't recommend this weak comedy , even though a Scary Movie 5 has been announced . Yikes .
A Nutshell Review : Breath	Of the limited number of Korean auteur Kim Ki-duk's movies , I have only seen a handful of them , and mostly they are the relatively contemporary movies , like The Bow , 3-Iron and Time . The feeling I got from them all is consistent - that it's not your usual storytelling , as he seemed more often than not to obscure any intended message , or meaning in his tales , much like searching for an Easter Egg , or worse , that needle in the haystack to get something out of it . If I can summarize his movies in a statement , then it'll be to expect something that's totally unexpected , though not necessary always in a good way . The main draw here for his 14th film , Breath , is Taiwanese actor Chang Chen . I was curious how Kim would be directing him in one of his movies , and as it turned out , because of the obvious language barrier , it's a convenient cop out to have his death row inmate Jang Jin ( even his character's name bears semblance to his own ) made a suicide manic , choosing to maim his voicebox so that there isn't a necessity to speak at all . Why he's in jail we're not sure , and in true Kim Ki-duk style , his inmate buddies who share the same cell , are not your ordinary gangster looking characters with big tattoos . While two of them are quite bland , there's an effeminate inmate who has a liking for Jang Jin , but gets time and again brushed aside when he demonstrates and emotes jealousy . Housewife Yeon ( played by Park Ji-ah ) discovers that her husband is cheating on her , and given the media attention on Jang Jin and his suicide attempts incessantly hitting the news , she decides to get back at her husband by striking a relationship with him , posing as an ex-girlfriend , and finding therapy in Uncle Jang . But before you say " boring " , what made her character a little bit impossible to believe is the lengths she'll go to just to spice up the visitor's session according to seasons , and of course , add some colour , life and song to a meandering dull movie . She does impossible feats of wallpapering , which I thought would be more credible it they weren't so well done . For half the movie , we see a one way street between Yeon and Jang Jin , she finding an outlet to vent her frustrations , while he finding it amusing to have a total stranger bring forth some fresh air , though artificial , injected into his imprisoned four walls . While there are of course issues of morality here that could be made for points of discussion , by the time the ending rolls around , these are indeed tossed out the window in double quick time . I suspect that 90 % of the 10 members of the audience were here because of the tantalizing poster of Chang Chen's mouth on boob ( the film has an M18 rating by the way ) , and it's not rocket science that the ah-peks were probably here for only one thing . But alas , that , it doesn't deliver , but what it does cement very surely , is that you'll never know what to expect from a Kim Ki-duk film , who becomes his own voyeur as he spies on the duo from the CCTV Cameras fed back to the confines of his security office . Unfortunately , Breath turns out to be a time waster , and you'll find yourself cheering at any moment that could have possibly breathed life into a dull movie . Perhaps art movie lovers out there could find some meaning if they look hard enough , but here , I'm calling out that the Emperor is naked .
A Nutshell Review : When a Stranger Calls	When a Stranger Calls belongs to the group of this year's remakes , with movies like Poseidon just over the horizon . Director Simon West ( Con Air ) helms this updated version , with plenty of relative unknown casts , which signals either the death rate is high ( it isn't ) , or that established stars are steering clear from a potential turkey . Clocking in at a relatively short 87 minutes , it's primarily made up of two acts . The first , which takes a full one hour , is the setup . Our heroine , Jill Johnson ( Camilla Belle ) , chalked up 800 minutes of talk time on her mobile phone ( do the math ) , and as a lesson in responsibility , her parents had confiscated her mobile and grounded her . To pay off her debt , she works part time as a babysitter , and looking after the wealthy Mandrakis ' kids , is her first stint . The huge Mandrakis mansion gets a full tour treatment , as it is where all the action will take place . Plenty of rooms ( makes for good hiding ) , an indoor pool sized aquarium-pond ( to get wet in , for the wet T-shirt treatment ) , and check this out - motion detector lights , which you just know will contribute to the scares with the manipulation of lights and shadows . Naturally , prank calls , red herrings are aplenty , which chalks up this act's runtime , but most of them fall flat in the suspense department . There's a minor trend emerging , with actors being the unseen , providing and acting through their voice instead . Recent attempts include Edward Norton in Kingdom of Heaven , and Hugo Weaving's V for Vendetta . Here , Lance Henriksen does the honours for the anonymous , nameless psychotic killer , but it just falls flat . Why ? The script doesn't give him much dialogue . Most of the phone calls made were of the silent ( mind-masturbatory ) nature , which I felt was a waste - they could have also casted some unknown instead , and the job will still get done . The second act , where the main action takes place , is too little too late . And the bogeyman , well , is purely a bogeyman . Those expecting blood and gore will be disappointed , as basically it's a one - woman show to hold your attention in the first hour ( eye candies always succeed ) , and this act will have her resolve everything in double quick time , ala Rachel McAdams in Red Eye . Don't expect any form of character development , nor subplots that will engage . The ending tried to be too smart for its own good , and came across as a cheap way to end the movie . There's not much of goodness to highlight from this movie - no scares , no thrills , no enigmatic villain , and plenty of security flaws , especially with that door alarm - the only thing it's good for , is to provide a number for 4D .
A Nutshell Review : Haven	It all boiled down to one Friday the 13th night . Haven takes place in the Cayman Islands , paradise on Earth , with beautiful beaches , friendly people , and of course , being the ideal place to stash cash , ill gotten or otherwise , free from taxation . In its seedier side , to paraphrase from another movie , weed is the currency , openly passed around in nacho chip bags . This movie ditches the idyllic moments , to peer beneath the veneer , of hell on Earth instead . I like movies which have many characters , each with their own objectives , but being led by unseen forces as they relate to one another , and events bring them to within striking distance . They might belong to distinct story arcs , but given the geographical proximity , their lives , their decisions and the consequences all become intertwined . There are three clear arcs in the movie , but the characters involved flit seamlessly from one arc to the next . You have the corrupt businessmen looking to escape the law at Miami , an affair , a daughter who hooks up with drugs and the wrong company , a sly thief of sorts , two star crossed lovers , a hot headed brother , good friends , and gangsters . On its own , they could be short stories . But when narrative style takes on the fragmented , non linear approach to spice and disguise an ordinary story , that's what you get in Frank E . Flowers ' Haven . Perhaps what will put bums in seats is the presence of Orlando Bloom , though the M18 rating would have restricted his girly groupie fans here from seeing their cinematic idol on screen in a role which is similar to what Tom Cruise did in Vanilla Sky , sort of . He plays the role of the Romeo in the star-crossed lovers arc , as Shy , son of a fisherman , still figuring out the meaning to his life , and having a lack of ambition which worries his girlfriend Andrea ( Zoe Saldana ) . Parental disapproval gets into play , and the rest is a spiral downwards for both lovers and their relationship . Some say Bloom's role is intense , but there isn't enough room for his character to justify that . And sadly , that was just about the better story amongst the three . In reality , all three could have been extremely short , as the scenes , though intercut with each other and had some overlapping moments , don't really contribute much to the characters or stories . You could have cut off half the fat , and still the story would hold water . One saving grace would be the score and soundtrack though , accentuating the illusion of paradise . But this is not to say Haven's a really bad movie . It just had enough story elements to cruise along in auto-pilot , and in the process offer nothing groundbreaking stylistically , or earth shattering in having any twists and turns to the plot . Breaking up and juxtaposing a linear plot does not disguise the fact that it inherently needs a lot more oomph .
A Nutshell Review : ( SIFF ) Next Door	So you've just broken up with your girlfriend and she has moved out of your flat . Your life is miserable , and you're now all alone . But wait , suddenly you realize that your neighbours are a pair of hot chicks , you're strangely attracted to them , and they're giving you the come-hithers . What do you do ? John's in such a predicament . His girlfriend Ingrid has left him for another guy , Ake . Depressed , he chances upon his beautiful neighbours Anne and Kim , neighbours he never knew existed , but neighbours who know exactly what has transpired between him and Ingrid , through wafer thin walls . John feels uneasy at the sudden discovery of his lack of privacy , exposing himself to strangers who know about his private life in detail . The questions now are , who are they , and what do they want ? A seemingly innocent request to help look after Kim , turned out to be one mind-game after another . The statements and stories Anne and Kim tell seem to cancel out each other , and leaves our protagonist totally lost and suspicious . But before you know it , the much touted S & M scene starts , and I pretty much guess that most would have felt that it was a little too brutal , with the bare-knuckle punches and bitch slaps smack right into the face of both love makers . Painful I tell ya . It's a psychological thriller , made appealing by a well-cut trailer . However , the movie was rather slow to develop , but picked up the pace much later and never let up right until the end . Then , your reaction will most likely be , " WTF ! " It's a pretty simple storyline packed into 75 minutes involving all the characters , in one totally whacked out plot . Don't buy into the hype .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Hot Pursuit ( 1987 )	After a hiatus of weeks , I'm back with scouring the library for more John Cusack movies . Hot Pursuit is one of his earliest movies , even earlier than the previously reviewed Say Anything . Here , he plays a teenager whose Chemistry exam stands in the way of spending a Caribbean holiday with his girlfriend and her family . However , his professor turns a blind eye to his flunking of the exam and the need for remedial lessons , and Cusack has to pursue his girl and her family as they had already set off without him . It's a decent comedy as he gets into situations like missing planes , spending the night with ganja-smoking Caribbeans , getting entangled with a pirate of sorts , and so on . And it all boils down to his ability to be able to save his girl and her family when they become victims of some thugs who take over their yacht . Fans of Ben Stiller would also want to watch this for one of Stiller's early performances on screen , and a villain at that . He doesn't have much lines , and neither are they funny though . Like most teen romance comedies of the 80s , it's pretty predictable stuff , and plays like a teenage boy's fantasy of how a holiday could probably turn out , and becoming the hero who saves the day . Suitable for those boring weekends which you want to waste away . Barebones Code 1 DVD containing no extras .
A Nutshell Review : Real : The Movie	Goal ! probably gave football fans a reason to cheer that there is finally a movie worthy of the sport , never-mind the teams that were featured in it . It got the right moments of excitement , joy , trials and tribulations that most football fans could identify with in players and their clubs . However , Real : The Movie takes the genre two steps backwards , even though you know it's like a congratulatory pat on the back of the club itself . Partly produced by Real Madrid CF , Real attempts to weave fictional narratives into a plot which glorifies its players ( not that it does a good job anyway ) , and also to point to the fact that it is the most successful , recognizable football club in the world , with fans all over the place , able to connect with one another through the club's sporting ambitions . The first narrative is that of a school teacher who arrived in Madrid , and staying a stone's throw away from the revered 80 , 000 seater Santiago Bernabéu stadium . He's like the chorus , trying to sniff out the reasons why Real Madrid permeates through the life of the city , and are worshiped by crazed fans . Then there's Tokyo , which is hot on the heels of Beckham-mania , with the story putting focus on the relationship between a teenage couple interrupted by the girl's fixation on Beckham . Relatively short , and not much meaning to it . If you dislike Beckham , you'll probably puke at the various shots of his mug up-close . Speaking of Beckham , there is a narrative thread which copies Bend It Like Beckham , having feature a teenage female footballer from New York . We follow the story of Megan , a hotshot footballer who suffers a career-threatening injury . The reason why this plot line is included , is to tie it into Ronaldo's comeback from injury . But the execution is weak , and we see probably the worst piece of acting from an eye-candy . Perhaps the best story is that set in Senegal . We see up-close how remote villagers experience the events of a football game , by having the dad travel on foot for a total of 4 days , round trip , to watch the game on television , and return to the village to recount everything he saw to wide-eyed children . This is perhaps the most heartwarming of it all , one which demonstrates a father's love for his child . And on a similar premise , and the weakest , is that set in a Venezulean town , about a young boy and a strange old man who happens to be quite a footballer himself . At the end of the day , it's nothing much except for a community sitting down together , supporting different teams , one camp Real Madrid , the other camp Barcelona . With of course , the expected build up to the huge game of the movie , that of arch-rivals Barcelona of course . However , this is no Goal ! with fictional figures inserted into the game . Rather , it's like watching a re-run of the season 04-05 game on a large screen , with dramatic moments only , which they won ( naturally ) 4-2 . The separate narratives are , well , separate . Which makes it seem like little short stories stuck together . Though there are some redeeming features , like the little nugget of facts done Hitchhiker's style , and a behind-the-scenes look at how the large club prepares itself for games with its meticulous planning . For those who have not been to the stadium , we're also granted a sneak peak into the high tech locale , but unlike Goal ! , we didn't see the entire dressing room . In case you're wondering if this review is biased as I'm an Arsenal fan , no . If you don't believe me , don't tell me that you've wasted time and money watching this . If anything , this movie is suitable only for Real Madrid fans only , not football fans in general . And for that , I'd wish the Gunners win the home and away legs of the Champions League against the Galacticos come Feb / March . Go Gunners ! And hang in there for the sequel to Goal ! set in erm , Real Madrid .
A Nutshell Review : The Black Swindler	I guess not only Hollywood is keeping an eye for potential comic book series or graphic novels to turn into movies , and for Japan , this had already been something ongoing given its rich manga culture with immense material to tap upon , with the latest and most popular here being the Death Note movies which had even spawned its own movie spin off L : Change The World , albeit to varying result . And the rule of thumb of course is to snag a heartthrob in your leading role , and you more or less have it made . In today's screening , Tomohisa Tamashita's popularity in the titular role got measured by the audible shrieks and wistful sighs each time he comes on screen , even in the nerdiest of disguises . Tomohisa Yamashita plays Kurosaki , a man whose family was destroyed by swindlers , hence his deep hatred for the group . He follows in the steps of Bruce Wayne , though more focused in his vigilantism , targeting only con artists in a bid to do his own Robin Hood work , conning them back and reimbursing the respective victims . There are various categories of conmen , such as white for those out for riches , red for those out to steal hearts , and black for those who con other con artists . For someone who hasn't read the manga , or followed the television series , this movie was quite a challenge for me to follow . Granted there was an origin flashback worked into it , but it served to confuse the current entanglement with its chief villain Ishigaki Tetsu , played by Naoto Takenaka , whom most will recognize as the sensei character in Waterboys or Swing Girls . Being a standalone movie , it tells of the despicable acts that Ishigaki commits , in creating bankruptcy fraud , and how Kurosaki has him set in his sights for some black swindling , with a hunter after an extremely cunning prey . Those without background knowledge will find adequate scenes in which a lot of questions will be asked . For starters , almost all the female characters here were treated second class , and not enough , despite its slightly more than 2 hours runtime , being focused on them . They come and go , and frankly speaking , could be done without as they don't hurt the plot an iota . Next , and I'm guessing here , is the love-hate relationship that Kurosaki has for his informer / con-master Katsuragi . While they exchange frequent notes on Shakespeare's Julius Caesar , it's hardly linked to , nor presents itself as a proper metaphor on the issue of trust which they're harping on , either that or the essence of it got lost in translation . Scenes such as those mentioned , which require a lot more background knowledge , tend to overindulge themselves , hence alienating severely first time visitors to The Black Swindler's role . Some like Bayside Shakedown obviously makes it easy for non-fans / series followers to grasp and enjoy the ride , but The Black Swindler seems to have stamped itself strictly for those in the know only ( or fans of Tomohisa Tamashita ) . Unless of course we decide to pick up the pieces from the established television series .
A Nutshell Review : Mission Sex Control	First of all , let's get our minds out of the gutter . The title already provided you a clue with the keyword here being " Control " , meaning this is no free-wheeling " mission sex " comedy with expectations of copulation being put in the spotlight . Rather , this turns out to be educational ( for a while ) and comedic in playing on misconceptions , before turning the wheel to become an all out melodramatic movie . Set in 1970s Korea , the government finds it worrying that the country will not be able to sustain itself should a population explosion not be brought under control ( the keyword again ) . Similar to our 70s-80s concept of stopping at 2 , the Korean government embarks on a nationwide drive to promote the use of contraception and birth control policies to keep its population growth in check , and finds that with most of the folks being rural ones without access to the mass media , they have to send their civil servants to the ground in an all out educational bid to win over hearts and minds . Enter Ms Park ( played by Kim Jeong-eun ) , who is assigned a village of her own to educate . Not being warmly received , she soon struggles to realize that it takes a lot more than just condoms and brochures . In rural areas , the villagers have traditional mindsets , what with ancestor piety , the necessity of boys to carry on the lineage ( and therefore to try until you have a male heir , and why stop at one anyway ) , and of course , having more than enough hands to till the land . She wins few followers , but soon with the help of hardworking Suk-Gu ( Lee Beom-soo , last seen in My Wife is a Gangster 3 ) , she uses her powers to promote him to village chief , and hence , getting a boost to pushing the policy in place . The comedy comes as expected , with education sessions gone awry with the hands on ( literally ) teaching on the usage of condoms , as well as birth control pills . Sometimes the movie comes across as a mouthpiece for complains , as we get to hear more grumblings from the villagers about their plight and challenges faced to conform to instructions . And before you know it , it goes on track for some terribly melodramatic moments , involving a suspect extra-marital affair , vasectomy for cash , love for family versus the get rich quick schemes of subscribing to family policies , and the likes . With an ensemble cast made up of the numerous villagers , there are ample opportunity for antics by the simple folks , and the villain ( of sorts ) to provide very vocal opposition , lies in the deposed village chief and his son , who is under pressure with his wife to produce a male heir . Those who have seen Lee Beom-soo in action before , will know that this guy can do comedy with his comic timing , and his average looks ( at least on screen ) help to connect us with him . While stoic on the outside , he is one big softie with a big heart , ever looking for ways to enrich himself , not to spend on his own , but to provide for his family . Kim Jeong-eun on the other hand , looks very much the helpless civil servant who at first gets cowered by the difficulties in engaging the villagers , but grow from strength to strength as the story progressed . One thing I find it amazing though , is how her eyes can become deep wells to hold the massive amount of tears within , like a manga doll . Mission Sex Control is not about sex , but the importance of birth control and contraception . It does get overly long in its delivery with plenty of subplots presented , so thank goodness it does have some comedy thrown in at least for the first half , even if it's not genuinely funny , to remind us that it shouldn't be taken so seriously , despite the message it got to preach .
A Nutshell Review : School for Scoundrels	So you're a pushover , lack guts to go after the one you love , and rely on stacks of self-help books to tide you over your pathetic life . Wake up ! Genuine help is on the way ! Be a lion ! Get what you want ! Welcome to the School for Scoundrels ! OK , I think I sounded a little too enthusiastic for this movie , but that's basically the premise of this remake . Yes , it's another remake from Hollywood , and it's no surprise that this one just coasts along on material that seem a little uninspiring and with a premise only all too familiar - the usual loser needs lessons to hook up with hot babe story , with a twist . Jon Heder ( Napoleon Dynamite , The Benchwarmers ) stars as Roger , who's a complete loser in a dead end job , relies on books to instruct him on life's lessons , and has the hots for his neighbour , Amanda ( Jacinda Barrett , last seen in The Last Kiss ) . However , being innately shy , he lacked the guts to pursue her , until he signs up for an ultra secret course called the School for Scoundrels , led by Dr P ( Billy Bob Thornton ) and burly henchmen Lesher ( Michael Clarke Duncan ) . Naturally , the crux of the jokes are from the lessons derived from Dr P's unorthodox teaching methods , for these shy students to graduate into slick operators , and there are a few genuine laugh out loud moments ( like the reference on the babies ) . However , most of the jokes relied on sexual innuendoes and slapstick , which have been tried and tested before , coming across as familiar rather than ground breaking funny . If you have seen a lot of comedies of such nature , then you'll find it difficult to have your funny bone genuinely tickled . Directed by Todd Phillips , who also helmed comedies like Road Trip and Starsky & Hutch , despite its shortcomings on the laughter front , I thought it was relatively well paced , with drama , comedy and enough tension rolled into one . You'll more or less guess the outcome of the story , but trust me , I did get fooled , well , almost . Jon Heder , as always , is effective as the Loser , while Billy Bob Thornton probably lived up to his real life notoriety in this role as the teacher up to no good . School for Scoundrels worked by using a sprinkling of gems along the way , so pay attention to that little dig on Angelina Jolie , and that appearance by Ben Stiller . Yes , that's him ! But no , even having probably Hollywood's # 1 funny man of the moment , failed to lift this movie from mediocrity and familiarity .
A Nutshell Review : Dark Water	I've haven't been much of a fan of the recent wave of popular Asian horror films , and haven't really paid much attention to the Hollywood remakes either . That is until Jennifer Connelly compelled me to take a dip into Dark Water . Connelly stars as Dahlia , who's in a custody battle with her estranged husband ( Dougray Scott ) for their daughter Cecilia ( Ariel Gade ) . Mother and daughter settle for a new run-down apartment , and experience strange leaks from the unit above . However , nobody occupies that unit , and soon Dahlia is drawn into the mysterious disappearance of its occupants . At times , this movie plays like the recent Robert DeNiro-Dakota Fanning movie Hide and Seek , with little subplots like imaginary friends , and the parent having some psychological problems . However , these subplots are never fully explored , leading to an ending which somehow leaves you with this empty feeling that more could and should have been touched on . Obviously , there are red-herrings thrown in , but there is absolutely no scary moment in which you'll jump right off your seat . This film though , is all about Mother's Love , and the longing for it . Many scenes in the movie make you go awww , drawing into your own experience of your mummy's concern for your welfare . The things that a mother would do to protect her child and keep her safe from harm , are always admirable . There are notable actors in this movie - John C Reilly , Tim Roth , Dougray Scott , Pete Postlethwaite , but they are relatively under-utilized , which is a pity . There is also a lack of a strong soundtrack to punctuate the right atmosphere in a horror movie . Since I haven't watched the original , I couldn't compare it for you . However , as a horror film , Dark Water didn't cut it , as it seemed more like a thriller / whodunnit / mystery with some mild supernatural elements thrown in . Perhaps it's just me , but perhaps Hollywood still doesn't have a knack in transplanting or capturing horrific elements from the original .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Proud Youth ( 1978 )	As mentioned in my earlier review of Swordsman , it isn't easy condensing plot elements from Louis Cha's richly textured martial arts novels for the big screen . In The Proud Youth ( bad title by the way ) , somehow it managed to do so , given a screenplay written by Ni Kwang , but it's ultra summarized , with zero room for character development , and scenes which don't seem to flow smoothly from one to the other , resulting in episodic treatment of sub plot development . But the most unforgivable thing done to it , was complete name changes to almost 90 % of the characters . Gone are Linghu Chong , Renwo Xing , Dong Fang Bu Bai etc , and in place were some generic names like Gongsun Song for Linghu Chong ! My guess was that given the summarized nature , having the actual names will do no justice to the original source material . So the next best thing would be to change the names , while retaining certain character traits that will allow them to be distinguished and mapped back to the original . It's a pity though , while the names of the 5 sword sects are kept , the ultimate swordplay technique had to undergo a complete , unnecessary revamp of title and style , which made it look like a very lame , generic martial arts move , with totally different origins . Fans of Du Gu Jiu Jian , I'm sorry but you won't get to see it demonstrated here . The fight scenes are reminiscent of styles of old though , with the heavy reliance of " ketchup " as a substitute for fake blood . While the fights look interesting , at times they turn out to be quite clumsy , with its special effects being shoddily done ( yes , I'm aware it's the 70s ) , and camera angles being out of position , and revealed quite clearly that swords were flimsy cardboard , and driven into the sides of bodies only . There are familiar plots like the introduction / battle with Dong Fang , the book Kui Hua Bao Dian requiring the practitioner to castrate himself , the rescue of Ren Wo Xing , the driving out of Linghu Chong from Hua Shan sect , and his learning of the Du Gu Jiu Jian , the musical number consisting of the flute and zither , and on hindsight , it's pretty amazing how all these were squeezed into 90 minutes . I was surprised at the exposure of a boob though , and in slow motion some more . And that was in 1978 , for a martial arts movie some more ! This is no Xiao Ao Jiang Hu . In name only , but definitely not in spirit . Please give this a miss , and proceed to the version starring Sam Hui . Code 3 DVD contains very limited special features . There are a few production and movie stills , one original poster , a one page one paragraph worth of production notes , the theatrical trailer and other trailers of the same genre , and a very short cast and crew biography . No qualms about the transfer , and traditional Chinese and English subtitles are available over a Chinese language soundtrack .
A Nutshell Review : The Reaping	Watching two Hilary Swank movies back to back , I thought it presented a good opportunity to see how the same actress tackles different roles , one a dramatic piece about life's lessons , and the other this , The Reaping , taking on some supernatural forces , although she almost started this movie in a lecture hall premise . I don't exactly label The Reaping as horror , because it doesn't have a single scene that can truly scare anyone , unless of course your heart's weaker than a chicken's . The structure is akin to Silent Hill , only that The Reaping is not adapted from a video game . But unlike Hill , this movie is pretty compact in its pacing , and doesn't drag scenes for too long to create atmospheric mood like its peer . Instead , if compared to Silent Hill , this is one Noisy Swamp . Hilary Swank plays a researcher who specializes in debunking biblical sightings and miracles by using science to demystify such phenomena . Listening to her rip the miracles and happenings apart however , was fun , nevermind if it sounded logical or not , since it's Swank , who managed to make the unbelievable , believable in the movie . But that's not to say that she did a fantastic job here , in a role that's largely wasted . If you want to see her act , check out Freedom Writers instead . But I digress . The Reaping's Dana Scully and Fox Mulder equivalents go into investigating a series of bizarre biblical occurrence , the Ten Biblical Plagues , ranging from the blood waters , attacking locusts right down to the last one - the death of every first born . Some may not like the hokey plot taking advantage of God's wrath on man , but as the movie turned out , it's nothing more than a special effects extravaganza , with the religious fervour added to the background and contributing some semblance for a plot to work . It's hip these days to have demonic children as part of the ensemble , and The Reaping has this mysterious girl who seemingly is the cause of God's Wrath . Or is it ? There's a little mystery to solve , with a couple of twists at the end , in a tale about the devil and avenging angels . And while the end does wrap things up , it leaves room for a possible sequel , should the movie do well at the box office . The only redeeming grace from the uninspiring , unscary story , is the special effects . Nothing more , nothing less , and nothing to scare your socks off , despite what the trailer and posters suggest .
A Nutshell Review : The Omen	The remake of The Omen will mark a triple grand slam of horror movies I watched in a row ( which is so rare ) , with Slither and Silent Hill making up the other two . From one demonic kid in the latter movie , to Damien , one of the earlier demonic kids in cinematic history , this remake , like most remakes , will make you wonder , just what is the point ? Director John Moore ( watched his remake of Flight of the Phoenix , and Behind Enemy Lines ) has crafted it scene for scene , but of course with the usual updates made in setting and the props department . The story plays on this year's calendar with 6th June 2006 ( 6 . 6 . 06 ) being extremely attractive for such a film to open , with the triple 6s the number of the devilish beast . And I guess most Singaporeans will still fall for any horror movie hook line and sinker , as many evening screenings on that day , were completely sold out . Mental note to self - horror films should make money here . As the hokey prophecy goes ( hokey because the film forces relatively current events to fit the trumpeting angels of Revelations ) , the son of Satan will make his appearance of Earth , and spell the end of mankind . Sounds boring , doesn't it , especially since John Constantine already had a field day bitch-slapping Son of Satan back to hell , and showing the devil the middle finger while at it too . Liev Schreiber and Julia Stiles star as the Thorns , parents to Damien , son of Satan , born from a jackal . An ambassador , Robert ( Schreiber ) makes an illegal pack with a priest ( never trust false prophets I tell you ) , and innocently raises Damien as his own . As our boy grows up , strange happenings start to occur , starting with the happy self-hanging of their nanny . Pete Postlethwaite stars as Father Brennan , who takes it upon himself to warn Robert of dire consequences , and the need to rid Damien soonest possible . But things aren't easy , especially with a new nanny Mrs Baylock ( Mia Farrow , in quite chilling a role ) , being the new surrogate guardian of her hellish master . Just how terrifying is this remake of The Omen ? By today's standards , and given the remake , it is a piece of chicken feed . It's not scary , and the death scenes are so Final Destination-ishly bad , they make the deaths in Final Destination look like instant classics . The body count is not high as well ( maybe Damien needs to grow his powers first ) , and we're only offered 3 " grandeur " deaths in the whole movie . And it's always sad for a horror movie to have to rely on cheap scares to try and frighten the audience . And what more , in dream sequences too , with quick cuts , and loud crescendos . Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick probably is the child actor with the easiest role to date , and all it requires is of him to act like he's constipated all the time . Not very challenging to stretch his acting chops , but then again , the rest of the cast all had it easy too . The version shown in local theatres is the edited version , with some noticeable " censored " bits glaringly missing . So if you prefer your gore in its complete glory , then you might reconsider . Then again , you might be better off with the original .
A Nutshell Review : Pan's Labyrinth	A lot have been said about Pan's Labyrinth , and having critical praise from all many corners and circles , have piqued my interest in the movie . However , I was apprehensive as well , because by virtue of it being a fantasy like fairy tale , I suspect it was not up my alley , given my lack of sustainable interest during the screenings of recent movies of the same genre , made by prolific filmmakers like Terry Gillian's Brothers Grimm , or Mirrormask as scribed by the renowned Neil Gaiman . True enough , I was bored with Pan's Labyrinth . Really bored . Not that it wasn't a beautifully made film . It is , and the sets and costumes all looked like no effort was spared in trying to recreate the 1940s Spain , as well as the fantastical elements in the storyline . It wasn't the story as well , as the worst thing that could happen is incoherentness and inconsistency . No such thing in the movie , and the pacing was tight too . Perhaps I didn't enjoy director Guillermo del Toro's vision for this particular movie ? Pan's Labyrinth tells the story of a little girl , Ofelia ( Ivana Baquero ) , whose love is for the fairy tales she brings along with her pregnant mother , en route to live with her new stepfather . Things start to get interesting ( for her at least ) , when a mystical faun comes visiting , and offers an illusionary life that she was supposed to be leading . Now , depending on whether you believe in fairy tales , or how much you'll allow yourself to be affected by , and buy into the plot , you'll be in either camp - if you do believe , then you'll find this a blast . Otherwise , like me , it seemed rather forced , and you'll prefer to look at it from the angle of psychosis . I think because of past history that I don't believe in fairy tales anymore , so that innate fact took its toil when I was watching Pan's . I'd rather look at it from the angle that there's something totally wrong with Ofelia's mind , or to put it midly , she's got a wild imagination that allowed her to allude that she's seeing things , more like . So I officially sanction myself , and state it clearly here . Every reviewer has their likes and dislikes . Mine unfortunately turned out to be movies of such a genre . I would love to have enjoyed it , but somehow it didn't turn out the way I would have liked it to be . So there you know my innate bias , so don't take my word for it , watch it to see if you share the same sentiments .
A Nutshell Review : Perfect Stranger	Perfect Stranger is far from perfect , and this is yet another classic example of the marketers taking the source material , and letting their own imagination run wild to get bums on seats . Bruce Willis in a seedy role , and Halle Berry oozing sex appeal with assets spilling out of her dress ? That's what the trailers would have led us to believe , that the movie's a classical sexy thriller , but the movie is many miles away , southwards in direction . Halle Berry plays Rowena Price , one of those journalist for gossipy mags , or if you prefer to upmarket her profession , an investigating journalist who digs the lowdown on the bigwigs and unveils the skeletons in their closet . A friend is found murdered , but not before giving her leads that her potential murderer could be Harrison Hill ( Bruce Willis ) , New York's top advertising executive , with a penchant for kinky online sex , having spend most of his free time when he's not running the business , in chatrooms , and wining and dining fast ladies for the real thing . So it's up to Rowena to hike her skirt and plunge her neckline to get into Hill's agency to dig for dirt , and naturally to engage in a little naughty online experience with Hill's virtual persona . Add in a jealous assistant in Miles Haley ( Giovanni Ribisi ) , we get quite a threesome relationship tussle going on , with plenty of sexual innuendos and meanings between lines . But herein lies the problem . In trying to cramp too much into too little time , and having a schizophrenic demeanour in its narrative , Perfect Stranger tries just too damn hard to be too smart with its twists and about turns , and ended up with so many clichés ( the horny husband , the rich and beautiful wife , the tech savvy friend , etc ) and boring moments , that you can see things coming way before they actually happen . Willis becomes too smug as he sleepwalks through his role , nothing too unfamiliar given previous experience in films like Color of Night ( opposite Jane March , who faded into obscurity ) , and Berry offers nothing more than what we've already ahem seen in her earlier works , ever since Swordfish provided that eye-opening experience . Everything in the movie follows a plot which is a tad too convenient , and having had shot 3 different endings for the movie , tells you a lot about how they treated the material . What could have been engaging , or intriguing , turns out to be a yawn . Perfect Stranger suffered from the shall-we-end-here-or-later syndrome , anti-climaxing the plot with a pathetic whimper , and couldn't decide just when to pull the plug , plunging it deeper and deeper into the realm of the ridiculous . Touted as provocative , and highlighted the potential dangers of online chats with identities anonymous and anyone could feign to be somebody else , in actuality Perfect Stranger was very tame and unsexy . What made it worse here is for the distributor to submit an edited version of it in attempts to get more people into the theatres . They really should have left it uncut , and gotten a higher rating . There are other better movies out there worth your time and money , so you can safely give Perfect Stranger the perfect parting gift - the skip .
A Nutshell Review : Intimacy	Picture your life this way if you can : You are a regular bloke . You work as a bartender in a pub . Your wife has left you and has custody over your two kids . Your friends are a gay and a totally whacked out stoner . The only thing you look forward to , is the afternoon of Wednesdays . That's when an annonymous female stranger knocks on your door , enters your home and the both of you have sex . Just sex . Nothing else . You don't even talk to each other . Just plain humping . And she leaves after that , leaving you basking in orgasmic pleasure . And that , covers about of the movie . Not just one sex scene , but plenty in between . Nothing fancy , just straight to the point humping . Things start to get complicated when you try to find out more about the life of this stranger , and the viewer is presented the background , motives and rationale behind the two lead characters . That's it . With one final hump , the movie ends . I suppose it's for the arty-farty folks , but heck , i think 90 % of the audience in the sold-out theatre didn't comprehend what the movie is trying to put across .
A Nutshell Review : Gaze of Michelangelo	This is possibly the final short film of Michelangelo Antonioni , starring as himself as well as he seeks out his the Italian Renaissance painter Michelangelo's statue of Moses at the Churce of St Pietro in Rome . Basically it's a piece which has the camera lingering on extreme close ups of the statue , covering every possible nook , cranny and corner , coupled with a meditative looking Antonioni decked in Armani , caressing the statue with his hand . In all frankness I have no idea what this short was trying to achieve , although it boasts some stunning visuals against absolutely no dialogue and sans music accompaniment , save for the ambient noise of shutting doors , and a church chorus toward the end . It might get a tad repetitive as well , given that it seemed certain shots got repeated ad nauseam . Perhaps it's to share the brilliance of one of Michelangelo's statues , or to share that the statue might be one of Antonioni's favourites .
A Nutshell Review : Ocean's Twelve	I got mixed feelings watching the film . It's supposed to be a heist flick , but doesn't feel that way . On the other , it's fun to watch the big name stars hamming it up on screen having a great time . One of the best parts is when Julia starts to play herself , and the cameo by Bruce Willis as himself is a hoot Other than that , the heist part is a bit of a let down - if compared to the first film , this one lacked the the sophistication of planning , twists , and the air of confidence , and everything about the heist ( more than one ) is told in flashbacks . Not as fresh as Ocean's 11 , but Catherine Zeta Jones , yeah she's hot
A Nutshell Review : The Benchwarmers	The main reason why I would want to go watch a movie like this , which I'd bet 95 % of the movie-going audience would prefer to avoid , is actually to check out what it's done to its premise . You see , a group of friends and I had an idea which we wanted to short-film , and the trailer for The Benchwarmers was so strikingly similar . Not that the story is rocket - science to begin with , but it's sometimes helpful to check out how a treatment ended up with its release . Telling the story of 3 losers who one day decide to stand up for a little guy , The Benchwarmers established their roots and take one for the Nerds , as they go up against a fistful of Jocks whom they're playing a baseball field for . Needless to say , this is the usual Nerds Vs Jocks type of movie , with a strange setting that all nerds grow up to be rich nerds , while the jocks all end up effeminate and enjoying loads of tittie-twisties . Why ? Don't ask , because this movie earned its cred belonging to one of those politically incorrect gross comedies , making fun of little people ( Verne Troyer , better known as Mini - Me , makes an uncredited appearance ) , the dumb , people who speaks with saliva spewing out from their mouths , and recycling the usual toilet humour like beef-stew farts . But for the fans and geeks of Star Wars , it's a wet dream come true as there are tons of props used from the movie , as well as well-known vehicles making short appearances , like the Batmobile from TV's 60s Batman , and the 1980s KITT from Knight Rider . While production values isn't exactly great - I thought at some points the movie seemed to be glued together from various separate and distinct scenes ( during the outtakes , you realized that there were plenty more scenes shot which did not make the final cut ) . There are various unnecessary subplots , like Schneider's screen wife wanting to start a family ( not that I'm complaining ) , but these points start to wear off as they're neither funny nor important to the main event . Themes like friendship and forgiveness make its usual rounds , and there's a little " mystery " worked into why Schneider's Gus Bus is the only player amongst the trio who seem to be able to play baseball , and be so good at it too . Other than that , the rest of the characters are stereotypical , bordering on the insane most of the times . What surprised me was the ending , as the usual good guys triumphing over the evil dudes isn't played out as it's expected to be , which of course , is at least a refreshing change . Again , not that it's a whoa ! moment , but it's different enough to let one up for the nerdy kids , which perhaps is the message this movie wants to spread - to let all kids have an equal opportunity to get out there in the sun , and have some fun , never mind their level of competency in the sport .
A Nutshell Review : Eragon	I'm not sure why many have cited this to be yet another epic fantasy movie in the mould of Lord of the Rings , or even Harry Potter . Perhaps it's the release date , given that all make it to the silver screen toward the end of the year . However , given that the story is based on a novel written by a sixteen year old at the time , the shades of familiarity stem from something on a grander scale . And to me , it's Star Wars : A New Hope . The similarities are obvious . Eragon ( Edward Speleers ) , the farmboy , raised not by his parents , but by his relatives . He learns how to use mystical power bestowed upon him , and has a mentor , Brom ( Jeremy Irons ) , teach him the ways too . The villains wield same capabilities , and they all wear black , seeking to destroy hope . Midway , there's a quest to save Princess Arya ( Sienna Guillory ) , and it all culminates in a huge battle , except that the villains launch the initiative , like the Battle of Hoth rather than Yavin . If that doesn't sound like A New Hope to you , then you'd probably come to enjoy Eragon , the first part of the Inheritance trilogy . However , if you make the connection , then I'd say you'll be pretty much bored as the movie has neither many moments to whip up your adrenaline , and is filled with a number of dialogue that will make you cringe . Perhaps the finale battle is the only saving grace of this movie , but even that has shades of LOTR's attack at Helm's Deep , only that it's on a much smaller scale , and lacking in detail . The cast is quite spectacular , though I'm a bit surprised that Jeremy Irons is in the movie . Some of you would have known he starred in the grand daddy of fantasy realms - Dungeons and Dragons , but unfortunately , that movie bombed . I suppose he's back here to make amends , but unfortunately , he doesn't get much opportunity to do so . Robert Carlyle as chief villain in this installment is your typical over the top overconfident bad guy , and he's the one with the inappropriate funny lines , which seem to repeat themselves over and over again . John Malkovich is a complete waste as the evil King , and as villains , repeat themselves ad nauseam . Perhaps as a hint , the filmmakers have reigned him in to unleash more mayhem in the sequels . Saphira the dragon is designed beautifully enough though , given the last celebrity voiced dragon we saw was in Dragonheart , provided by Sean Connery . But I suspect that the baby dragon will win a lot more hearts than a fully grown one . You can hear those gasps amongst the audience , that should some marketing folk start making the plush toy , it'll sell like hotcakes this Christmas . Eragon clocks in at way under 2 hours , which is hardly material enough to consider it an epic . Given the shortened run time , there are various bits on the character's learning and development of abilities which seemed very rushed and summarized even , making it feel very choppy . However , as with all first films of the trilogy , it's the establishment of who's who and what's what , so hopefully , if a sequel pulls through , that it'll be way better than this one . And yeah , it cracked me up upon hearing Saphira ( voiced by Rachel Weisz ) stating that she needed a rider . Ha !
A Nutshell Review : The Coffin	Director Ekachai Uekrongtham reunites with actor Ananda Everingham to move from the red light district of Singapore's Geylang back to Thailand to partake in the bizarre Thai ritual of having oneself laid in a coffin to get rid of bad karma . It seems that all the karma in the world are on a zero sum equation , and what you try to get rid of , get translated into unwanted supernatural attention and transferred elsewhere where you least expected . On paper and from the trailers , the premise is rich for plenty of scare opportunities to be milked . Alas the star pairing of Karen Mok and Ananda Everingham is too overrated , as both only share one scene together , and a short one at that . The story also seemed a tad weak and filled with too many draggy scenes which supposedly tries to build tension and anticipation , but falls flat on its face . And don't get me started on the dialogue , as it contains some of the most cringe-worthy lines that it's more interesting just sitting there just watching paint dry . Don't get me wrong though , there were still some genuinely scary moments , of just 2 scenes which almost guarantees your heart skipping a beat . But that's it . You wait for almost an hour for something to make your hair stand on ends , and they come fast and furious . And too bad that after that the entire film went flaccid after some solid spurts as it plodded along to a boring last act which tried to rationalize the strange happenings a little too much that it just sucks out whatever soul the movie has confidently built up from that crescendo of horrific scenes . Horrror movies are no stranger to Ananda Everingham , having been introduced to audiences through the superb Thai horror film Shutter . But unfortunately even his acting chops can't lift his mediocre character Chris out from the doldrums , who decided to get into the coffin to try and save his comatose girlfriend , but as suggested in the film but with the potential not followed through , the coffin used might not be a brand new one and could contain some unclean elements in it . While he doesn't have some of the scariest scenes in the film , what he did have was a scene quite powerful in itself toward the end to show off some of his dramatic flair . Karen Mok has instead demonstrated that she's no scream queen , try as she might . Her portrayal of the troubled Su , who fled to Bangkok with her wedding looming on the horizon because she discovered she's suffering from lung cancer , doesn't provide that air of vulnerability , and her alpha-female persona just gives you the feeling that she'll pull through whatever supernatural trials and tribulations the story throws at her . She got the luck of the draw though with the scariest moments in the movie happening to her character , but too bad these were one off scenes that became the oddity in a horror movie caught up with trying to be innovative , but yet negated by feeling the necessity to explain everything verbatim . If not for its rare handful of scares , some cheap , The Coffin should stay well buried six feet under , a pity given the premise that was so full of potential .
A Nutshell Review : Rogue Assassin	War undergoes one of those unnecessarily title changes for this part of the world , naming itself after Jet Li's assassin character Rogue . Billed as " The Ultimately Martial Arts Duel of the Year " , the person who wrote that blurb for Rogue Assassin obviously hasn't seen many movies , or martial arts ones for that matter , or is plain lying through the teeth . You'd half expect that pitting two action stars against one another will instantly mean box office success by pulling in fans of both Jet Li and Jason Statham , but it's a downright insult as you don't see any punches pulled between the two for 99 % of the time . Jason Statham actually starred opposite Jet Li in the movie called The One back in 2001 , where Li had no decent cinematic opponent to spar with , and had to do so with himself , assisted by CGI . With his movies like Crank and The Transporter doubles becoming guilty pleasures ( read : just Statham kicking up a storm without a reasonable story to boot ) , I'd actually come to enjoy his work choreographed by Corey Yuen ( who also does the action choreography here ) , together with other ensemble movies he starred in , like The Italian Job and Snatch , amongst others . It's no doubt I'm a fan , but in Rogue Assassin , all he had to show off his fighting chops , was a sequence in a ubiquitous teahouse . But Jet Li fared no better too . His Hollywood foray had been more misses than hits , either playing assassins or cops like in Kiss of the Dragon , or be stuck in roles that require little dialogue and only to look bad-ass , like in Lethal Weapon 4 , and Cradle 2 the Grave . Or the easiest of all , forget dialogue and kick around like a mad dog - no offense but that's what he really did in Unleashed ( which I thought the notion of it all was rather degrading for an action star ) . Nonetheless he goes back to a story on warring factions again ala Romeo Must Die , but this time , it's not between boyz in the hood , but putting Japanese Yakuza and Hong Kong Triads in the streets of San Francisco . As I mentioned earlier , there's nothing martial arts here . Everything is guns , guns and more guns , with a complimentary sword fight put in , but not between the touted leads . The action sequences , from fights to chases to stunts all looked rather tired and rehashed , with absolutely nothing that will make you go " wow , that's nothing I've seen before " . Statham and Li share no more than 5 minutes together in the same scene , and only at best a minute bashing each other up , in the dark , in a narrow dock warehouse , before launching into more verbal mumbo jumbo . Everything here is a caricature , and not even a clichéd revelation saved the movie , when it had expected to , except to give some runway to a possible sequel . War / Rogue Assassin reeks of plain laziness , and plays out like a cartoon . In trying to be sophisticated , having to label locales with " The Triad Warehouse " , or " The Yakuza Lair " was just plain hilarious , unintentionally of course . The number of supporting caricatures , some recognizable Asian actors , all fall into the realm of predictability , and the villains are all too smug and too boring . You have HK actor Mark Cheng ( from his latest movie Invisible Target ) lending his charisma but becoming a laughing stock , John Lone demonstrating he's still very much being typecast in Hollywood roles , Devon Aoki continuing to be that flower vase who doesn't look good up close ( somehow the cinematic camera dislikes her ) , and hey , once TV actress from this part of the world , Steph Song , gets a cameo too , spending most of the screen time screaming . Everything's pure flash with zero substance . Even in trying to be a little sophisticated in its plot , it decided to allow some plot loopholes to go through an exercise of the implausible , and put in some major character motivation error . But then again , we're talking about cartoony caricatures here , so that probably won't matter . It became a victim of its own star casting - you don't know who you want as the bad guy , and as a result , becomes a below par mediocre , generic action movie that you can stick some other monkeys in and still work .
A Nutshell Review : Things We Do When We Fall in Love	The second part of James Lee's love trilogy , Things We Do When We Fall in Love is more of the same . If you're frustrated with the presentation of the first , then my advice is not to bother with the second , even though the stories are not linked . For me , I thought the colour made it slightly more bearable , but if you're not a fan of his auteur minimalist style , then you're likely to have impatience get to you . There are many shots and situations which just are , without much incident , and totally up to you to interpret . Inside the car , in a motel , dancing on a quiet street in the dead of the night , walking around in a padi field , the list goes on . It is likely that there are deeper meanings to be studied from , but the shaky hand-held camera gives you a wild spin , often following from behind the characters , or peering from behind inanimate objects . They eat , sleep and talk about the most mundane things . It's not a romantic film per se as the title would have you suggest , but rather a very unromantic one dealing with the ordinary , stemming from insecurity , and the constant craving to be wanted . I thought there was a little hope for me to enjoy this movie when the introductory scene before the opening title showed flashes of things to come , of some comedy infused in its dialogue , but that was not to be . Instead , it went back to dialogue that was slow , non - purposeful , and excruciatingly repetitive , especially the cries for acceptance and the pleas to be understood , which get on your nerves . The constant arguments between the couple , ever so often , makes you wonder when they'll eventually part for good . It tells of the relationship between a man and a woman . One's a computer programmer , the other a teacher . They decide to take a trip around nearby , and spend much time driving around , from which we follow like a " lamppost " at the back of their seats , watching silently as they eat , quarrel , and sing . We spend quite some time on the road , before we decide to end up in a motel , for more of the same . I thought Loh Bok Lai was decent in his role as the all suffering man who cannot seem to appease his lady love ( or so we think ) , and Len Siew Mee , showed a different perspective with her female character here , compared to her love-them - and-leave-them Ling Yue in her previous movie . Here , her clingy character just gets to you and frustrates . And following them won't be bad if not for the NYPD Blues styled camera-work . If you're one who suffer from motion sickness , bring a bag along . The story develops at a peculiar pace , and in the end , a hastily thrown epilogue of sorts is included , which I thought would have been unnecessary , if not just to show that pair of mammaries in a pool . Despite the complaints , will I watch the concluding movie ? For sure , given that I want to complete the trilogy , and that I'm such a sucker for pain .
A Nutshell Review : ( SIFF ) Little Fish	I was drawn into the movie because of the cast , a powerhouse trio in Cate Blanchett , Hugo Weaving and Sam Neill . Other than that , the story took a while before it became interesting , and the pace was somewhat too slow for me . Telling the story of an ex-dug addict Tracy Heart ( Blanchett ) , it brings to mind the Yellow Ribbon project . It hammers home the reality that despite talk of the giving of second chances , in the world of today , just how many would offer that helping hand ? Seeking a bank loan itself to finance a business proposition , is an Everest to climb . The story dwells on the conflicts within her family , the present situation that looks so bleak without opportunities , the disgraceful past , and how the characters have to live with the skeletons in the closet . It was a little dry in presentation , and dragged with a number of scenes . What made it interesting was the ending itself , somewhat tense and not knowing which way it will result in . And that locking of lips between Weaving and Neill ? Didn't expect that at all . But on the whole , this movie didn't work for me and was somewhat disappointing , save for the delivery of the excellent cast .
A Nutshell Review : Fool's Gold	Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson paired up in a chick flick some 5 years back in How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days , with the latter making the former fall in love with her , and then having to shrug him off as part of a social experiment , only to find herself really loving him instead . In Fool's Gold , our couple reunites , with Kate Hudson's Tess going down deja-vu avenue in wanting to divorce husband Finn , played by McConaughey because she just had enough of his lack of keeping to promises , which even a fantastic sex life couldn't help . It's no surprise that movies such as Fool's Gold continue to be made , and the formula is pretty no brainer as well . Put in some tempting opportunity for prospecting sunken treasure in the depths of the seas from some aged old ship , smack together good looking leads ( so that they can get away with everything , including a bad story ) who don't mind bearing their bodies in trunks of bikinis for the most parts of the movie , and pour in plenty of water , jokes , and goon type characters as baddies . Finn , as a hero , is almost always bumming through life , and making the wrong deals with the wrong kinds of persons . His latest expedition , while managing to gain small results , offends his financier Bigg Bunny ( Kevin Hart ) , who's after his hide for making him lose money . His soon to be ex-wife works as a stewart onboard the luxury yacht of multi-millionaire Nigel Honeycutt ( Donald Sutherland ) , who soon finds himself charmed by the couple's enthusiasm and passion for treasure hunting , and backs them in their latest quest to locate the lost treasure known as the Queen's Dowry , where 40 chests of jewellery with emeralds and rubies the size of a human fists . And the quest is not made easy when there's competition in the form of Moe Fitch ( Ray Winstone without CGI to buff him up to Beowulf proportions ) , and Big Bunny's goons with an injection of foreign talent . For some parts , this looked like National Treasure without the location jet-setting and the cryptic clues . There's a hidden treasure somewhere that our heroes have to dig deep from clues provided from the past , in knowing characters , their histories and motivations , and of course with goons constantly hot on their heels doing things the easier way without working the brains . However , Fool's Gold had loaded itself with too many characters in its ensemble , and as it expectedly turns out , everyone else besides Hudson and McConaughey are in supporting , one dimensional caricatures . You have a rapper and his posse , a pair of gay chefs , rival treasure plunders with history going way back , and a tycoon and his daughter whom he's trying to connect with . If I should choose my favourite character amongst all of them , it's gotta be that bimbotic heiress ( Alexis Dziena ) probably cloned from Paris Hilton's genes . In fact , some of her lines are so genuinely stupid , that they somehow turn out really hilarious , and the delivery by that wide-eyed ingénue , clueless face , gave those lame jokes an added boost . Standard action adventure fare with predictable outcome . Don't go into this movie expecting anything more , or you'll be making a foolish choice .
A Nutshell Review : I Know Who Killed Me	Maybe because it's Lindsay Lohan's way of telling the cinematic world she's grown up now and would like to be cast in more mature roles , with her taking on dual characters here as all American rich girl next door Aubrey Fleming , and white trash stripperella Dakota Moss . Like Anne Hathaway before her who had shed her clothes to announce her arrival ( in both Brokeback Mountain and Havoc ) , Lohan prances around in skimpy costumes , gyrating on a dance floor showing off her pole moves , but yet stopped short from showing what she has already exposed in real life . Her public demeanours aside , which has seen her flash skin ( intentional or not ) , smoke , drink and drive , all hopes of this movie being her vehicle to show what she can do beyond those cutesy teenage roles , go up in a puff of smoke . I Know Who Killed Me sounds like a cheap cousin of the clichéd I Know What You Did ( insert favrourite season here ) , and works out for the most parts suffering from multiple personality disorder . It cannot decide whether to be a psychological thriller which tickles the mind , a mystery with tons of smart red herrings thrown about , or a gory torture porn movie which really strayed too close into the Elisha Cuthbert Captivity copycat model . Lohan as Aubrey disappears in a small town which had been rocked by a series of missing girls and bizarre killings . Naturally everyone gets worried that Ms Freckles will become a victim , and when she's found , she suddenly deems herself to be a certain Dakota Moss who have absolutely no idea why folks are claiming otherwise , and assisted by some nifty special effects that somehow just makes your skin crawl . So on everyone's insistence she's not who she claims she is , and going down the road of delusions , I'll actually be quite glad if it took that straightforward path , rather than meander through indecisiveness , showing a little of everything , including cheap shock horror tactics , before providing that all important plot twist to stamp its mark and steer the movie henceforth . Credit though to that twist which was something of interest to me at least , but nothing that had already not been done before . What the story clearly lacked was a strong central villain , instead opting for the obvious clichés in playing coy with his identity . The movie throws up a whole truckload of supporting characters , and most of them , especially the police folk who were so involved in cracking the case ala CSI style , gets so conveniently forgotten midway through . Subplots introduced were relying too much on many coincidences , and when they do not logically work out , gets dropped wholesale too . All these boiled down in demonstrating the scatterbrains at work here , in dabbling with and experimenting , but leaving those unwanted test results still in the movie . But as mentioned , I Know Who Killed Me is an avenue for Lohan to show that she's bad , and really really bad . But there's absolutely no need to show she's notorious at flirting with the gardener with her come hither looks in tight clothing . She smokes and she drinks , and doesn't demonstrate anything else beyond being the tabloid fodder she has made out to be in recent times . Watch this if only you enjoy being teased by the local distributors - violence and gore is good and uncut , but love making with clothes on gets the snip for the call of the dough .
A Nutshell Review : Fun with Dick and Jane	This is a remake of a 1977 comedy of the same name , an update of the same premise of your happily married couple who found themselves in debt and having to rob in order to pay the bills . Starring Jim Carrey ( who produced this movie ) and Tea Leoni , they're Dick and Jane Harper , who are living the American dream , with nice house , nice car , nice kid , nice housekeeper , and nice family dog too . A promotion to Vice President of Communications in a conglomerate makes Dick Harper arrive . But only for a day as his first task is to make the televised announcement of his company's finances , and found out that the company is in dire straits . So begins the barrage of comedic situations where Dick and Jane struggle to sustain their livelihood with the minimal amount of resources , with situations even as absurd as getting deported . The jokes are not laugh-a-minute , and at times seemed too contrived , even for a Jim Carrey movie . We know what he's capable of , but in this movie , he's somewhat restrained in his delivery , perhaps having to share screen time with a partner in Leoni made him cut down the antics ? But the movie's obvious jab is on the recent spate of corporate scandals , and in that it does quite well , working them into the movie with no holds barred . It even had the cheek to give special thanks in its credits to the executives at Enron , WorldCom , and had a direct reference to the shredding episode of now-defunct auditing firm Arthur Andersen . Alec Baldwin certainly had a field day as the villain of the movie , the CEO of the conglomerate Globodyne who siphoned off every penny from the company before it collapse . Is he going on the decline , having to play supporting roles , and the " bad guy " as well , the latest in recent memory being another CEO in Elizabethtown ? Hmm . Is this comedy memorable ? Sadly no . It's OK for the occasional laughs , but absolutely nothing to make you laugh in tears . Fans of Jim Carrey , you'll lament the good old days . Bring them back !
A Nutshell Review : Four Christmases	I can't help but to chuckle at how Brad ( Vince Vaughn ) and Kate ( Reese Witherspoon ) got busted on national television no less , for having everyone whom they have lied to , see exactly where they are - at the airport trying to get to their vacation destination rather than accepting the invitation from their families to spend the season's greetings with . After all , as far as Brad's mantra goes , you can't have families without " lies " . Anyway it is a situation that I'm fairly familiar with , and his reaction when the television camera gets poked in his face , brought back the memory of my own busted moment many years back . As the wafer thin story goes , here is a couple who have spent the last three years in their " honeymoon " period , where everything is fine and dandy , and they seem to be A-OK with their commitment-less agreement and enjoying life as it is with each other . But a fog-ruined holiday meant they have to spend their one-day delay in San Francisco , and play tote the politically correct line in visiting all their divorced parents - that makes it four pit stops to commemorate the festivities , and hence the title - and this led to various inevitable hilarious situations . Such as revisiting the ghosts and skeletons hidden in the homes they each grew up in , and for the first time , for both Brad and Kate to really discover who they once were , and who they are now , warts and all , for the other party to see . In fact , the first two house visits did just that , in presenting their worst nightmares and their attempts to overcome them . Sounds cliché I know , but that's the gist you get from the entire movie , that it's nothing more than a generic holiday movie where things that can go awry , do . Given that it's a compact under 90 minute film , you'd come to expect that the latter half of the visits suffered from haphazard editing in order to make a mad dash to the finale . And this tells from the way characters magically appear one moment , and disappear the next . Reese Whiterspoon just pales herself against the gigantic Vince Vaughn , and it's quite a curious case of what the filmmakers actually had in mind in casting a really tall Vaughn against a really short Witherspoon , that you can check out those heels she had to deck just to reach his erm , armpits . Vaughn definitely stole her thunder here ( in what was reel reflecting real - you just got to love his rendition of Joseph ) although some of the usual wisecracks did get toned down , and he seemed to be muted for the most parts , instead of being able to run riot with the role . Perhaps the much publicized tiff with his co-star did take its toil after all ? Four Christmases doesn't offer any gifts to the audience , and you're likely to stay one step ahead of the characters all the time . Genuinely funny jokes are rare , and moments of contemplation on the greater good gets mentioned only fleetingly . It's still quite amazing though that the film managed to get on board as supporting characters , the likes of Robert Duvall , Sissy Spacek , Jon Voight , Mary Steenburgen , Kristin Chenoweth , Tim McGraw ( ! ) and even the director of Iron Man Jon Favreau ! So it's enjoy the moment with the supporting characters ( almost all of whom their characters seem a little sexed up ) , in what would be a rather plain film .
A Nutshell Review : Never Back Down	Donnie Yen's recent Flash Point provided action movie fans a glimpse of Mixed-Martial Arts , or MMA , where the best of breed techniques in taking down an opponent get gelled together to provide unpredictability in offensive and defensive response , coupled with the transformation of almost every part of the body into a well-oiled mechanism to dish out some serious punishment . But with Hollywood , well , you can bet your last dollar that the philosophy behind this brand of martial arts get dumbed down to 3 words - " Mix it up " . Like many movies starring teens and targeting the same demographics , Never Back Down follows a standard formula that most of such movies adopt , especially with taking things to the streets , like Fast and Furious 3 , and the Step Up movies , which dealt with different subject matter like street racing , and street dance . Throw a misunderstood teen into a new environment , where he learns that his current skills ( if you can call them that ) pales in comparison to the boys in the big league . Add a beautiful lass to beguile the protagonist , and she'll either serve as motivation or fodder to get his butt kicked because she just so happens to the antagonist's main squeeze . So in a fight for respect / pride / to get the girl , he goes into training mode , and comes back in time for the finale with chick around arms . That's about it . So don't go into this movie expecting a lot more . Touting itself as a new fight club , it is anything but , especially with everything cerebral removed from the plot . I also don't see how it won this year's MTV Movie Awards for best fight sequence , as most of it dwelled on grown men hugging tightly on the ground engaged in complex body grinding and twists . Action fans will be a tad disappointed with the quality of fights shown here , as this is not really MMA . I believe if you throw Donnie Yen into the mix , he would pawn everyone in the movie , even those who choreographed the supposedly deadlier moves , which boiled down to a series of boxing hooks and punches . With the formula in place , everything else will just fall into its rightful position . Sean Faris stars as Jake Tyler , a teen with anger management and guilt issues who can't control his temper and flares up easily when his dad gets insulted . In his new school , he chances upon 2 things , an underground fight club , and hot blonde Baja Miller , who turns out to be the girl of his would-be nemesis Ryan McCarthy ( Cam Gigandet ) , who turns out to be the biggest baddest fighter in school . Losing both the girl and his pride in one fell disgraceful swoop , he undergoes training with MMA exponent Jean Roqua ( Djimon Hounsou ) whose rule is simple - you do not fight outside his gym . Expect rules to be broken , expect the two mentor-mentee to bond , expect some rationale to be provided to head to the fight we've been waiting for , and while the peer movies gave us a finale to remember , this one fizzled out with cheap moves . But I've got to say something about the movie . Fans of Tom Cruise will definitely see shades of Cruise-like characters in Sean Faris . He's like a walking , talking Cruise clone , only that he's younger , taller and more muscular . In fact , if you take Cruise back to his teens , Never Back Down would probably be one of the movies that would fit into his budding filmography . Not that I'm gay here , but seriously , if you happen for any reason , choose to watch this movie , tell me if you agree with me . They shouldn't have billed the movie as the new fight club , they should have billed the movie as starring the next Tom Cruise . Though of course it remains to be seen if Faris can steer clear of crazy couch-jumping antics .
A Nutshell Review : Retribution	Retribution , punishment that is considered to be morally right and fully deserved . And for those who , like myself , have not gotten warned enough from writer-director Kyoshi Kurosawa's earlier duds like Loft , watching Retribution is retribution enough for not heeding that warning with its red light flashing from a distance . I enjoyed Kairo , but somehow the subsequent works of his which I've watched , failed to captivate just as much . Simply put , Retribution contains all the classical elements of things that go bump in the night , the Kurosawa way . Don't expect sudden boos - you'll get long takes , the quiet , and something I've always admired , how spirits appear in the background so gradually , it's actually frightening . But too much of a good thing becomes cliché , and spicing it up by making them fly like Keanu Reeves in the Matrix sequels , just reeks . This movie too suffered from too many of the same type ghouls , and having one of them , the sticky Woman in Red ( Riona Hazuki , whom I swear looks very much like local TV actress Jacelyn Tay ) letting out cries that can challenge any siren , inevitably makes you want to cover your eyes each time she appears . As the story goes , Koji Yakusho , a Kurosawa movie regular , plays a veteran detective Yoshioka assigned to investigate the homicide of the woman in a scarlet red dress , who was drowned in salty water accumulated in a puddle at a construction site . Curiously enough , the evidence all point to him - his whereabouts unknown , and a button at the scene which could have come from his own jacket . The problem is , he has no recollection what the heck had happened , and neither does he know the girl . Along the way , he seemed to be guided by this invisible force which he calls his hunch , to nab other suspects in other cases of similar modus operandi - that of drowning in shallow salt waters . It's pretty much a character study piece of Yoshioka , with many flashbacks and numerous attempts tying up its convoluted loose ends . His nasty demeanour of unorthodox tactics ( I just love that chase up the rooftop and its resolution of that scene ) make him unpopular , and when alone , his relationship with his beautiful girlfriend Harue ( Manami Konishi ) makes you wonder why the bad boys get all the nice girls . Anyway that aside , it's precisely these relationship issues that put the entire story on a spin , and which I thought for a man like him , saving his whisky bottle during an earthquake speaks loads . As mentioned earlier , the production is almost minimal , especially with Yoshioka alone in his apartment . The movie's not for everyone , and restless teenagers are better off leaving the theatre rather than to vent their displeasure at the other folks who want to endure this . There are a few surprises in store for those patient enough to wait till they emerge , but therein arose more questions to be answered . You wont get satisfaction watching this movie , all you get is retribution for wasting time watching something quite hokey and clunky . If there's only one thing I like about the movie , it's that one special effects shot involving a water pan towards the end . Blink and you'll miss it .
A Nutshell Review : Pulau Hantu	While this might have been marketed as a horror film , the end result is nothing but , given its distinct lack of scares . I suppose local horror movies with military flavour ( such as 1942 ) tend to be focusing on the military aspects of the story and even on the relationships between soldiers of a platoon , rather than on the supernatural elements . Pulau Hantu did try to stick to some formula with attempts at cheap scary shots , which because of the amateurish technique , failed to raise goosebumps or elicit worthwhile screams . Maybe that's why this also didn't opt for a commercial distribution ? Besides Army Daze , I think this is the only other local feature film that doesn't seem to quite put the Singapore Armed Forces in good light . With the former , it's understood that the characters were designed for comedic effect , and the setting being the first three months of conscription , does provide for some natural opportunities for humour . With the platoon in Pulau Hantu , these are reservists who form the backbone , but alas they seem to be more like complaining schoolboys ( minus the girl of course , who's a career soldier here ) , which to a certain degree , does seem to be quite a close fit to real life . And putting the horror element aside , it dwells a bit on the dynamics within the platoon however , with a white horse LTA Heng ( Carl Ng ) leading the team , much against his own wishes for coming back to serve out his obligation to the country , and is assisted by a female MSG June Fong ( Pamelyn Chee ) . Rounding up their group are a number of CPLs Alvin ( Shane Mardjuki ) , Rajah ( Vijay Madhavan ) , Hadi ( Sani Hussein ) who seemed the only one aware of the deep trouble they're going into , and the Hokkien soldier PTE ( yeah ) Frankie Low , played by John Cheng , providing plenty of comic relief in the first 20 minutes of the show . As mentioned , the " white horse " element got quite a bit of attention and comparison here , as do other little gripes about wearing green . The film opens in quite standard terms with establishing the source of the supernatural , with a village bomoh ( witch doctor ) raping a woman he fancies , and the product of that event was a child . Soon both mother and child get buried alive , and sets up the background for the spirits that haunt the island . We then see Adrian Pang cameo as MAJ Damian Lee at the Detention Barracks , interrogating an unseen somebody to recount the events that are about to unfold , for investigations , and thus sets up a little bit of mystery just who this person might just be . So it's a story about a platoon being recalled to serve their reservist by looking for 3 AWOL soldiers on the island of Pulau Hantu , before realizing that their enemy might be of the unseen variety . The premise had plenty of potential to make this one mean horror flick , with its veins reminiscent of Singapore's cinematic heydays with the likes of horror films such as Pontianak . Witch doctors , victimized damsels , and nicely set up twists to surprise the audience , but alas , its execution came through as a little bit clumsy , and unfortunately , seemed caught up at wanting to play at soldiers rather than to serve up something that could even be remotely spooky . Granted that this is PG rated and funded by MDA so there might be certain territory that the film can't venture too much into , but this could serve as a stifling point in reining back something that could have gone to greater heights . For instance , this much be one of the most polite bunch of soldiers I've come across in a while , and does Singapore proud by speaking good English even at the face of adversity . And while tactical route march is the order of the day , certainly we can cut down on the number of instances where soldiers walking around in high port pattern , since , well , nothing exactly happens . Lighting is also an issue , though I understand that it could be digitally enhanced to spruce up the darkened skies and the likes , but this in effect negated a number of scary moments where the audience frankly couldn't see a thing , when it should have mattered and raised some goose bumps . Also , certain scenes came across quite jarringly due to poor editing ( the sudden immolation scene anyone ? ) , though credit is to be given for working around a tight budget , such as the creative thought into dealing with grenades that cannot be exploded . It tried to be a Guard Post , but of course minus the blood and gore ( it's not a slasher flick ) , but could have incorporated many basic techniques to serve us some serious scares that audiences would still be left shaken even when the lights come on . We have no lack of ghost stories , as mentioned sarcastically in the movie , that is set in the army , such as a stuck in development-hell production called Charlie Company , but what needs to be really improved , is the way those stories get told and transferred to celluloid . For once I say let rip those cheap scare tactics to see how far one can go in getting audiences spooked .
A Nutshell Review : The Deaths of Ian Stone	The premise made this look like a distant cousin of movies like Groundhog Day , only that it's more bizarre , and containing an element of gore . Imagine if you wake up but find yourself living a different life from before you slept , not just repeating the last 24 hours . And each iteration actually ends in death , where you feel pain , and knowingly being hunted down . Then you rinse and repeat , with little recollection and little opportunity to figure things out before you get hit again . Sounds interesting , right ? But The Deaths of Ian Stone wasted the premise , and became a very boring movie despite the tense build up . It kept you guessing , until slowly you realize a whole host of clichés start to creep in , especially those pertaining to speeding up the narrative and to provide wholesale , verbatim explanation on things to come . Showing you is not enough , the characters have to blabber repeatedly , and you start to roll your eyes when they beat around the bush for no good reason . Ian Stone , the titular character , is played by Mike Vogel . A teenage ice hockey jock , things start to go bump for him when he realizes that time will start to freeze , and he finds himself getting thrust forward in time , but not before suffering immense pain from creative death . The only constant that keeps him sane , is the presence of girlfriend Jenny ( Christina Cole ) , who seem to not recognize him in his moment of awareness , as he tries hard to figure out the whos and the whys . The posters plastered suggest creatures spawned from the imagination of Stan Winston Studio , but to give credit to the plot , it contains something a little more . While you can find little fault with the special effects and Harvester creature design , you will probably laugh at the laziness in costuming , where total rip offs from the Matrix Trilogy were adapted from , with the tight Trinity styled Lycra spandex coming on screen , with the characters ' hair slicked back and shades to boot as well . Of course the theme of love is central to the story ( i . e . if you have no theme , you can always fall back on love ) , as an emotion so powerful it can move mountains and oceans , and with new love come jealousy and envy from those around you , especially from the ones who hold the candle . As mentioned , the movie had promise and an explanation for the strange , but the delivery is suspect , and unfortunately , quite boring . After the first few iterations , you know the idea well has run dry with generic killings , and a whole amalgamation of tools being used concurrently just to inflict pain , but done off-screen . The fight sequences too are terribly bad , with lacklustre punches being thrown around , while brandishing those nicely shaped bladed hands . The Deaths of Ian Stone is nice to look at at first , but slowly the flaws start to surface , and soon enough you'll realize just how flimsy everything had been put together . Should Harvesters be real , they could feed on the audience's collective fear of the dreadfulness the movie is heading towards . And they will be well fed .
A Nutshell Review : The Bugmaster ( Mushishi )	I was expecting Mushishi to be a wild fantastical ride full of snazzy special effects and martial arts . I was sorely disappointed with the latter , and more so when the movie had decided to jump right into the plot of things , with little explanation of what's going on . Based on the Japanese manga written by Yuki Urushibara , Mushishi , or The " Bugmaster " follows the trials and tribulations of a young mystical shaman Ginko , who travels from location to location , healing people who are infected by the " mushi " creatures , spreading like the plague . However , the filmmakers decided to have made this for fan boys , and doesn't dwell too long with the backstories or relationship details between characters . Started off quite impressively with a special effects shot of a huge landslide , the movie thereafter degenerated into a series of incomprehensible events that signals that the movie isn't really for non-fans . I was confused by the lack of explanation , either through dialogue or visuals , of what's happening . Imagine watching Star Wars with little or no explanation of " The Force " - things just happen , and you move on . Come to think of it , it must resembles Star Wars in many ways . You have a manipulator of mystical energy , and have various practitioners belonging to various factions , and you have lineage issues with the lead . You even have a character with horns on the face , like Darth Maul . For its length , I was hoping for something more epic . , with the potential of being a classic . But sadly that was not to be .
A Nutshell Review : Night at the Museum	Night of the Museum is this year's Chicken Little . With the trailer played almost every time before a movie is screened , it's arguable that this is probably the most watched movie trailer for the year , with that T-Rex skeleton taking a sip from the water cooler , made the iconic scene for the film , taking over Chicken Little doing its rendition of " the running man " . Given its marketing muscle , it'll work two ways - live up to its hype , or gets buried in it when it fails to deliver , given its continuous build up of expectations . Night at the Museum treaded dangerously close to the latter . Fans of Ben Stiller , myself included , will definitely not miss this movie . There's this tinge of zaniness in his movies and characters , and most of his comedic films never fail to crack me up . I reckon at least one scene in every movie will have me ended up in stitches with tears rolling . Sadly , this was not to be for Night at the Museum . It's a pretty ordinary role about a very ordinary quitter , who can't seem to hold down a regular job , and is faced with losing respect from his son , now living with his estranged wife . So as the story goes , he gets a job as the sole night watchman of the Museum of Natural History , and as you would already know , it's a kids fantasy as inanimate objects and statues all come to life when the sun goes down . At its heart , this is a children's movie , through and through , having caricatures for villains , and situations which are deemed very family friendly , which suits its target audience to a T . It's filled with top notch special effects and costumes to bring history to life , but again it's nothing groundbreaking about it . The storyline is rather plain and almost buried itself under ultra predictable plot lines , which is a pity because it had some great supporting cast , like Robin Williams , who was surprisingly very muted and restrained , Dick Van Dyke , Mickey Rooney , Ricky Gervais , Owen Wilson and Steve Coogan , the latter two playing combative , bickering figures from different eras who are in constant battle for more territory . To thoroughly enjoy this , bring along a kid , or allow the kid inside you some leeway to take over your emotions for a while . Otherwise , this movie will be a tad tough to sit through without constantly checking your watch . Hope the next Ben Stiller project will be much better .
A Nutshell Review : Lower City	Two childhood friends , Deco ( Lazaro Ramos ) and Naldinho ( Wagner Moura ) meet Karinna ( Alice Braga ) , a stripper looking for a cheap ride to the city of Salvador , in exchange for sexual favours with the boys . Who could pass up a blonde like that , and in record time , we see the friends getting it on with her inside their steamship . It's actually an extremely simple story , with lacklustre sex , some flesh , and again , a short story premise being extrapolated painfully into a feature length movie . The central theme here is the disintegration of a deep brotherly friendship because of man's innate selfish nature when it comes to affairs of the heart , and how lust takes over to blind the dudes that it just isn't worth fighting over a slut . If I may paraphrase a popular saying , why forgo your sights on the various bikes available in the store for the village bicycle , which everyone has ridden ? If there should be any plus points for the film , then it would be the handling of this character exploration of the breaking down of a friendship . However , that alone isn't sufficient to garner your attention through the movie . Alice Braga , the Brazilian actress who starred in City of God , looks good in the role , but seriously it's nothing to fantastic about it . Her Karinna is one seriously indecisive about the matters of the heart , though totally passionate about losing her clothes without batting an eyelid . While she realizes that her indecisive ways is causing havoc to the friendship of both men she likes , making some preliminary plans to escape the situation but not execute it doesn't help much too . What made it all worse , and this is directly linked to the story , is the frustration of leaving things just hanging in the air . The movie ends in similar fashion to Karinna's character - the inability to decide . Oh , and the overrated scenes of the city , it's seediness , gloominess , etc , it's really all done in quick montages , or on location sets that doesn't offer you anything more than a sneak peek . Like its characters , the movie's delivery just doesn't make you care for any of them , or their self-inflicted plight . All said , this movie will probably not get any thumbs up by the ah pek community . What they're primarily looking for , gets glossed over too quickly , bogged down by the characters trying to emote too much . I'm not sure how some can tout the supposedly steamy scenes as hot , unless of course they haven't got it in a long time .
A Nutshell Review : Rogue Crocodile	Not another crocodile movie again , you might groan . I did too , as I wonder just how many killer shark and killer crocodile / alligator movies need to be made , before they finally die off . Not too long ago we had Primeval , which was a crocodile movie set in the African continent which had attempted to weave local politics into it . Here , it's set in the Northern Territories of Australia , and with such killer-reptilian movies , the more exaggerated the size and aggression of the animal , the better . So we have a seven metre long crocodile for the characters to contend with . It's a simple set up , in which Radha Mitchell plays Kate Ryan , a river tour guide who pilots her own boat to ferry tourists down a river to experience the wild life , as well as learning little details such as them not getting themselves attacked by any crocs because their tour boats are larger , or so they would like the tourists to believe . That said , our monster in question took about 30 minutes before deciding to increase the pace and tension of the movie , by knocking up against the boat of our merry bunch when they respond to a distant distress signal . It takes a while to get things moving because writer-director Greg McIean ( Wolf Creek ) had dedicated the earlier portion of the movie to get the audience chummy with the characters , before they become fodder for our hungry crocodile . And surprisingly , I have to say that Rogue Crocodile did work , despite it being a crocodile movie done countless of times over , and whose plot development we can see coming from a mile away . What probably worked in its favour , is that there aren't any gung-ho heroes in the story - no cops or natural crocodile dundees , but everyday folk like you and I , and we naturally would root for them as they try to escape their predicament . And it looks like a typical episode from the television series Lost too . You have a makeshift island where our temporal inhabitants seek refuge from , though the tide's coming through to flood it in time , and with water comes natural territory for the crocodile to wade through . Communication devices aren't working and they're cut off from the rest of the world . So they can only rely on their own ingenuity , plans crafted with time working against them , if only they can get past their occasional bickering on what to do . There are enough tension filled moments to excite you as this crocodile chomps without remorse , and it doesn't shy away from showing some gory bits , though the number of set action pieces are limited , and involves a little too much thrashing about by the roguish reptile which turns out to be not too smart , relying on plain brawn . Suitable for those lazy Sunday afternoons .
A Nutshell Review : The Spirit	I wonder what Will Eisner will think of Frank Miller's interpretation of his classic character The Spirit . While I have not read the comic books of old , I am feeling curious enough to want to know whether Miller's version sticks to Eisner's vision , or came off as his own creation , like what he did to The Batman with The All Star Batman and Robin . Miller probably got his interest in film-making piqued when he witnessed two of his graphic novels Sin City and 300 rake in big bucks at the box office with Robert Rodriguez ( and Miller ) and Zack Snyder at the helm , and thought that his stint with the former , and employing similar CG techniques , would allow for a rookie to have a go at it . So in came The Spirit , with Miller writing the screenplay , and providing the direction . Truth be told , it felt a lot like a fanboy given a palette and having the freedom to go at the canvas . This is basically self-indulgence , no two way about it . You know how comic book movies feel like comic book movies because certain elements from the books get translated verbatim into the movie , and one of the guilty elements was like the reading of text with every monologue that found its way into the movie . Gramted the style here was to adopt from detective noir , but it felt pretty artificial . And what was more artificial , was the dialogue , which was farcical at times too . Fan boy elements reared their ugly heads again when Miller felt that he had to just have characters spew lines referencing comicdom , and there were so many lines which self-parodied the film , that it just raised your goosebumps . And when combined with lengthy monologues that made it seem like it's a one-man stand up comedy . For instance , when The Octopus ( Samuel L Jackson ) has The Spirit ( Gabriel Macht ) tied up and ready for the kill , he lapses into yet another blah-blah egoistical speech , so much so that The Spirit had to break the fourth barrier and remind him to get on with the show . Macht is a relative unknown , and I guess the decision was quite right given that the material probably couldn't entice any big names to want to don a fedora , trenchcoat and red tie , jumping around rooftops and proclaiming that they are the city's spirit . Samuel L Jackson seems to sleepwalk through this role which he hammed up with plenty of tongue in cheek , and the costumes handed to him in the film was nothing less than zany , from Samurai garb to Nazi uniform , it provided plenty of platform for him to reprise his villainous role , which did seem like an over the top version of the many baddie roles that he had already played in the past . Action-wise , between these two characters , their immortality becomes the crutch of this film , where everything including the toilet bowl ( yes , complete with filth ) can be thrown at each other . There are but a few redeeming factors of course . This film doesn't feel a need to have its narrative follow a chronological order , and it worked wonders , especially when it's used to break the monotony of dead dialogue that borders on going nowhere . Backstories are told in flashbacks , and for a first movie , it worked its origin other than to follow the usual formula in telling the audience how policeman Denny Colt become this supernatural being who can't die . Sort of how The Crow meets Batman / Daredevil , which Miller had opportunities to work on . At times though I do feel that the references to " my city " do seem a little Bat-heavy . And I guess when it comes to casting the femme fatales that The Spirit flirts with given his Casanova erm , spirit , this film had its cake and eaten it as well with the likes of buxomy actresses in skimpy outfits , such as Paz Vega in a minor role as Plaster of Paris , Scarlett Johansson as The Octopus ' partner in crime Silken Floss , and Eva Mendes in a meatier role as an old flame with a thing for bling , Sand Saref , and this in addition to Jaime King's head - scratch inducing Lorelei Rox , Sarah Paulson as The Spirit's current squeeze Ellen Dolan , daughter of the commissioner , and a whole host of beauties as well . The Spirit is probably hit and miss for most audiences given that the negative factors outweighing the positives , but I suppose if one approaches this with low expectations , you might just get some kicks out from the load of sticky cheese this movie gets to fester with . If the littlest moments count , then perhaps you would likely enjoy the end credits roll a lot more , especially when you get to see Miller showcasing his artwork , to the sounds of Christina Aguilera belting out the song " Falling in Love Again " . I know I did , and was left pondering how this would probably be a better film should it be animated right from the start .
A Nutshell Review : Tony Takitani	Tony Takitani is a short film , clocking in at 75 minutes , but it's amazing how so much can be cramped into so short a time for a feature film . Telling the story of the titular character , played by Issei Ogata , we actually go backward an additional generation to learn of Tony's father Schozaburo Takitani , played by the same actor . The movie had segregated within itself certain milestones of events , with the dad's story first , and It took awhile before Tony took over and moved the plot forward , or should I say , plodded forward . We observe how he meets the love of his life , Eiko ( Rie Miyazawa , Twilight Samurai ) , who , like in a Taiwanese movie The Shoe Fairy ( starring Vivian Hsu ) , has an obsession , not only shoes , but the entire designer fashion wardrobes . The next half of the movie tells of the sadness Tony underwent when he loses his wife , and tries his best to forget the pain . Hence his weird classified ad he posted seeking someone who fitted his wife's frame , to come work for him , but wearing his wife's clothes , giving him a sense that she's somehow around him . Totally weird , in which he agreed to . But of all the scenes I would love the last one best , as if it served as a wake up call of not living one's life in the past , but to look to the future . Perhaps the movie has a deliberate dull feeling to it , reflective of Tony's character . As mentioned , a lot of underlying themes and various emotions run through , but ultimately , I felt it was dry and boring at times , because nothing much happens - no big action , everything's pretty nuanced and controlled , so much so that scenes drag . The movie's beautifully shot with pretty images , but ring hollow in me from a lack of emotional resonance . Effectively , it gave you a sense of loneliness and isolation that Tony goes through when his wife is lost , and the pain that sledgehammers in the silent moments , save for the narrative voice over , done to perfection as it integrates wonderfully with the character's monologue , or conversations . Not to forget too is the pretty distracting technique of having the camera pan from left to right between scene transitions . Recommended only for art movie lovers , who'll probably have a field day with this slow moving movie .
A Nutshell Review : Broken English	Broken English referred to , and this is the more obvious reference , the way English is not spoken by native speakers , thereby creating at times some comedic situations when accents come into play to dilute the actual meaning of the words . But Zoe Cassavete's movie isn't an outright comedy , or one which deals with language in Mind Your Language style . It's actually a dramatic look at Romance , from the point of view of a 30-something . And this actually turned out to be a Parker Posey vehicle , as the actress takes the lead role of luckless in love Nora Wilder , who is into her 30s , and as per societal judgement , gearing towards an old maid zone . Perhaps I belong to the other gender , and hence understand some of the predicaments faced ala the movies starring Zach Braff of late ( The Ex , One Last Kiss ) , thus not being able to fully appreciate the point of views from Cassavete's characters . But try as I could , I thought it fell short in presenting its points succinctly , instead by adding too many sub plots without much depth , the entire narrative turned out to be rather scattered . Maybe deliberately done to highlight that life throws you the occasional curve ball that you can hardly dodge from , but watching how Nora gets put through the paces of meeting men and then finding out that their incompatible , which usually happens quite fast , Broken English initially turned out to be quite episodic . Scenes change , characters get introduced , things happen , and then the next big thing occurs . While not disjointed , it did seem a little superficial , and hardly allowing you room to feel for Nora or to be in her shoes and walk around in it a little . Things get interesting when Parisian Julien ( Melvil Poupaud ) , a friend of a colleague , enters her life , and then for a moment you fear the worse as shades of Before Sunrise / Sunset start to creep into their conversations of just about anything , and their gung ho attempts to spend quality time together , wherever they may be , go to , or end up at . For a minute I thought Vienna would be swapped for New York . The pace was not deliberately slow , but you can feel its length , especially during the third act when the locale gets shifted overseas , and you start to secretly hope that it'll all end soon , whatever the outcome . Being a debutant Zoe Cassavetes written-directed by movie , I think it had shown signs of promise , just that it is unfortunately not polished enough . What made this movie watchable is the ever reliable Parker Posey performance , where the weight of the entire movie fell on her lithe frame . She made this movie bearable to continue watching despite her character's frequent misery , and kudos to her are well deserved . Watch this only if you cannot get tickets to Harry Potter .
A Nutshell Review : Just My Luck	The only Lindsay Lohan movie I had ever watched was Mean Girls ( 2004 ) on board a flight to Europe , and I thought it was a pretty entertaining chick flick . Herbie Fully Loaded somehow didn't appeal to me , so Just My Luck was next on the screens here . There's another little story too on how we picked this DVD in Petaling Jaya , KL , Malaysia , together with Scary Movie 4 , and then donated it , but heck , that's another story for another day , and it really was just our luck that night of the purchase . Just My Luck tells the story of the crossing of fated paths between an incredibly lucky girl , and a totally unlucky guy . In typical boy-meets-girl fashion , these 2 individuals will meet , and re-meet each other again in make-believably coincidental situations , and find in each other , the sparks of love . The introduction was quite neat , as we get acquainted with Ashley Albright ( Lindsay Lohan ) , the walking good luck charm , and Jake Hardin ( Chris Pine ) , a walking disaster with a knapsack full of emergency supplies to help him tide through the day . One's a sassy PR consultant , the other a " bao-kar-liao " ( takes care of everything ) lowly worker at a bowler's , aspiring to make it big via his discovery of a Brit band , the McFlys . The couple meet anonymously at a masquerade ball , and a seemingly innocent kiss transfers all the luck on Ashley , to Chris . And so it follows that Ashley will try everything she can to get her luck back . Until her conscience starts to question just who might need the luck more . The reversal of roles story isn't really new , only the medium and method are different . Like recent movies The Shaggy Dog , and even Lohan's own Freaky Friday , are movies that belong to the same story genre . So the question is , does this one work ? Given the good looking cast , it should appeal to the youngsters who are fans of Lohan , or are attracted to the good looks of Chris Pine . Their chemistry worked well off each other , and you can feel their respective surprise and frustration as their lifestyles differ drastically . There are plenty of situational comedy infused with a story like this , but most of them felt contrived . Towards the end , given that luck could swing the situation either way , some scenes seemed to be stuck in limbo way too long , waiting for that punchline to give it direction . Granted , being incredibly lucky already is stretching the plot a bit too thinly , so you'll be better off treating this movie like a childish fantasy . A typical date-safe movie enjoyable at certain points though , with the usual expected feel-good ending .
A Nutshell Review : Passengers	Anne Hathaway stars in no less than three films being released this month alone in Singapore . There's Rachel Getting Married , the upcoming Bride Wars , and Passengers . Amongst the three , and I'm counting my chickens before they hatch , Rachel Getting Married is a must watch to see how Hathaway has nailed it as a credible actress , while Bride Wars from the trailer does suggest she has some comedic flair , and this one , well , is one of those attempts at her trying to diversify . She did credible , but still couldn't shun away from being a pretty vase in her Claire Summers role . But she uses it to her advantage here , as her struggling grief councilor character uses her charm to disarm , and is getting used to all the unwanted male attention courtesy of patient Eric ( Patrick Wilson ) , who is one amongst the group of an airplane crash survivors that she's tasked to work with . Two separate threads develop here , one on the romantic front with a clash of morals given a conflict of interest with a patient , and the other some creepy mystery with regards to the shrinking size of her group therapy class . The former thread is easy to follow , since it's all about Eric and Claire playing games with each other , with every approach met with icy cold defense , until of course persistence finally paying off . Don't expect any sparks to fly as both Hathaway and Wilson felt as if they're going through the motions with their characters . The latter thread is where the fun should be , with its brewing conspiracy theory with the airline's involvement to something sinister , given contradictory reports with the survivors ' experience , as well as shadowy figures following everyone's movement . However , Ronnie Christensen's sleight of hand technique can be detected and seen a mile away . In its buildup , suspense wasn't considered , and it plodded on with issues and unfinished business being piled one on top of another , though credit must be given to David Morse in his creepy rendition as an airlines representative , as do Andre Braugher and Dianne Wiest . By the time the movie rolls around its half way mark , those alert can already know what the big revelation will be . Which is nothing groundbreaking already since a number of films already use similar plot devices and revelation that it's no longer surprising , but the norm . I only felt that the revelation could have been less clumsy and made clearer , given the many bewildered responses heard all around the cinema hall . Passengers is one of those films that you don't expect to see on a plane's inflight entertainment system , together with the likes of Flightplan and the first Final Destination . It does boast a spectacular plane in distress scene , though it dangled that prospect for the longest time before delivering its effects laden payload to the audience .
A Nutshell Review : Step Up 2 the Streets	The opening just might inspire the return of the flashmobbers , a fad which picked up for a short time in Singapore ( of which I did participate in one ) , and then faded into oblivion . From the get go , it seemed like a unique idea , until you realize it's all staged to gain street cred in this Youtube age , performed by " crew " members of reigning street dance champions 410 . But Step Up 2 retains much of the superficial facade of the original movie , with the setting in the same elite school , only with a different cohort . From what we've seen in the first , those snobby arty farty dance kids no longer hog the spotlight , as it is firmly on a group of misfits who are here to replace the loss of the previous two leads Jenna Dewan and Channing Tatum , although the latter did land a guest appearance to cement the excuse for a sequel , as well as to pass on the troubled teen mantle to Andie ( Briana Evigan ) . Whatever troubles these teens have , it's all secondary to the purpose of making the movie . Sure , you have the outcast who don't look right and get prejudiced against , a typical younger brother trying to step out of the shadows of his more illustrious brother who's now school principal , and some might even deem it condescending to have an Asian character who speaks in a funny accent . Too many characters here and all of them turn out to be one - dimensional and cardboard . But all that camaraderie building aside , which is what is formulaic glue , the main draw is undoubtedly the street dancing moves . I'd bet everyone in the audience , who are mostly teenagers into free form dance , will lap up all the moves that the cast put on display . And there are plenty of set pieces for one to gawk at . However , in my own personal un-dance-like opinion , the dancing here pales in comparison to the first . What made the first interesting to watch , is the fusion of two different schools of thought , and having them come together for an explosive finale which was worth the wait . Here , it's more improvisation , and even then , you can't help but notice the very individualistic styles that stand out on its own , never for a minute trying to blend in with the rest of the crew . Coming together for the expected finale was also very staged and forced , and in no way given the story development , can they pull off something like that . Even so , instead of one coherent act , you get many disjointed short sequences being force fit together . Not very effective , or interesting to sit through unfortunately . So I am going to state that Step Up 2 the Streets is strictly meant for street dance fans , otherwise this makes the first movie look like a class act of its own .
A Nutshell Review : Scream 2	Given the success of the original Scream , it is inevitable that there would be a sequel , bringing back cast members from the first movie who survived the massacre ( Neve Campbell , David Arquette , Courteney Cox ) , and adding new popular faces that would add to the body count , like the underutilized Sarah Michelle Gellar . In case you've forgotten the iconic beginnings of this franchise , it is again reprised with a movie within a movie , as Gail Weather's ( Cox ) successful book about the incident has been turned into a movie called Stab , starring Heather Graham in Drew Barrymore's role , and David Schwimmer ( not seen though ) and Tori Spelling in the roles of Arquette's and Campbell's respectively . It's an incredibly cheesy beginning , which stayed true to the way the original was played out , and guest stars Jada Pinkett Smith too . With the original Scream poking fun at slasher flicks in general , this sequel pokes fun at , you'd guess it , sequels . A new copycat serial killer is in town and stalking Sidney ( Campbell ) and the surviving gang has to race against time to try and find out who this sicko might be . Could it be a copycat down to the last detail such that Sidney's new boyfriend , an alpha-male jock , is involved ? Or one of the surviving cast from the first film ? Or how about the innocently accused Cotton Weary ( Liev Schreiber ) who's released from prison , and wanting to get back at Sidney for putting him in jail ? The gore factor definitely has been reduced ( or was it because I was watching a Code 3 version ? ) and relies on the usual soundtrack crescendos to pull in the screams ( put intended ) ? And speaking of the soundtrack , there were moments were Broken Arrow's was used liberally throughout . The in-jokes and numerous references which made the first Scream a darling , were sadly missed in the sequel . The ending again is a twist when the killer is revealed . Though like all predictable villains , a long extended monologue always seemed to be the order of the day . Guess that's just the way the genre goes . Like what was mentioned , there are only a few sequels which surpass their originals , and sadly , Scream 2 is not one of them . Code 3 DVD was a barebones version , nothing special included , which is a pity .
A Nutshell Review : Halloween	I had not watched the original Halloween , so sadly I can't do a comparison of Rob Zombie's reimagination of the horror classic by John Carpenter , about a psychotic killer hell bent on a mindless rampage when he escapes from the mental institution , with his doctor hot on his heels . Michael Myers ranks up there with Freddy Krueger ( of the Nightmare series on Elm Street ) , Jason ( of Friday the 13th ) and LeatherFace ( of Texas Chainsaw Massacre ) , and of late , these characters have been on the recycling mill , with the latter having a prequel made , and the former two combining forces in a movie . Wrestler Tyler Mane takes over the mantle of Myers , and Zombie's movie goes quite far back into the time when Myers was a kid , and how he got institutionalized . But it's more of an formality and an exercise in routine , as we've seen enough demonic kids ( Omen , Joshua and also in Whisper , now showing in theatres ) these days and nothing of similar nature would excite . But credit to Zombie , he goes for the jugular ( pardon the pun ) from the get go , and you get what you're looking for early in the movie ( and there was one lady who deemed it too much , and walked out at this point ) . However , the reimagination didn't steer clear of tried , tested and tired clichés , such as getting the same old blondes being targets ( somehow , everyone here is spotting long hair , mostly blonde ) , plenty of gratuitous nudity where almost every actress here had their clothes shed , and you guessed it , everyone had sex on their minds , though we know what that means in the horror genre . But what was a tad interesting though , was that Zombie made you abhor the characters who die early in the film , thus providing you an avenue to cheer ( ! ) Myers on as he dispenses his own brand of justice from a mean looking kitchen knife . Classic characters from the original return , with Dr Samuel Loomis now played by Malcolm McDowell , and Brad Dourif having a bit role as Sheriff Lee Brackett . But the gem in the Halloween movie is who gets to play the role made memorable and propelled Jamie Lee Curtis as the Ultimate Scream Queen , and here , the part of Laurie Strode went to Scout Taylor-Compton , whom I thought didn't scream enough . Anyways , fans of the franchise would be pleased with Danielle Harris taking on a role in the movie , having appeared in two other movies in the franchise . Some might say this is yet another mindless remake , giving opportunity for Rob Zombie to make yet another blood lust slasher movie . Definite must watch for fans though , as Zombie elevates Myers to almost god like invulnerability here , but almost ( ? ) closes the door on possible sequels . Then again , no one can stop from being imaginative enough to yank Myers from Hell and back again , if the box office clamours for it . What is indeed a classic instead , is that unforgettable signature tune of the Halloween theme composed by John Carpenter himself , while not at all frightening , does give you a sense of impending doom .
A Nutshell Review : The Seeker : The Dark Is Rising	The Seeker : The Dark is Rising , no doubt being based on a children's book series , could have come up with a better sounding title than to reinforce the impression rightly that it's for the young ones , with nary any bit of sophistication . Telling the story as is in a straight forward manner , it's filled with tons of cliché thrown in from start to end , and while it does have its moments , on the whole it felt very familiar , with similar plot elements from various fantasy movies contributing to this emotional and action flatliner . The clichés are obvious with the get go . You have a loner hero , Will Stanton ( Alexander Ludwig ) , who's destined to be The One saviour of the world by virtue of him being the seventh son of the seventh son ( you imagine how his mom managed to keep her figure after giving birth to 8 children ) . Saviours of mankind must always belong to the social outcast clique , unpopular and having a bad time winning over the girls . He has powers beyond his imagination , no thanks to Firestarter , The Force and Gamma-Rays , but the biggest mystery is why these weren't invoke to save the day , but rather to impress girls ( OK , so he's only a fourteen year old ) . Oh , and he can travel through time too , but only as part of his mission to retrieve six items that can defeat The Dark ( cue bad guy theme ) . In certain sense , it's like National Treasure done in a schizophrenic premise , with the film undecided whether to be fantastical and medieval , or rooted in modernity . With Will's ancestors being the creative one in splitting formidable Light power into six components , you will begin to laugh at its version of prophetic self-fulfillment . Naturally there are obstacles , but these challenges nary tickle the mind , or strain the body . Then there's the usual beware-of-beautiful-girls reminder for a kid with raging hormones , but that's what the guardians ' duties would include , to chaperon our young hero . The supporting cast are indeed laughable . From being labelled literally The Old Ones , they do not possess any powers beyond very cheap weapons that can be bought off the shelf , and neither does the movie have any budget in utilizing the weapons , for fear of breaking the good looking props . They dispensed advice recycled from other movies , of believing in oneself , and with a scene directly lifted from Fellowship of the Ring , where Cate Blanchett tells Eiijah Wood that even the smallest of beings could achieve great things . And the part where I laughed the loudest , was Merriman Lyon ( Ian McShane ) giving his best impression of a Marlon Brando speaking to Christopher Reeve in a booming voice , and what came after was a scene just dripping with cheese . There are plot loopholes abound that you'd just want to laugh at , especially when the chief villain known as The Dark Rider played by Christopher Eccleston ( hands up all who know where this one came from ) never failed to remind everyone how best to destroy him , or just blatantly blind to the fact that he could achieve his objectives earlier on in the movie if he cut down on the needless theatrics . Then again , if we have a smart , realistic villain , we won't have much of a story now , have we ? Even his schemes that are hatched , such as the planting of moles , reeks of failure ( no thanks to the trailers of course for ruining who that person might be ) , and with absolutely no flair in character , this villain is truly unmemorable , and one of the worst . However , to the children out there , this movie will still serve as a rather enjoyable t rip to the cinemas . It's almost devoid of sex and hardcore violence that makes it suitable , with a feel good theme and ending , save for one or two creepy moments . Although belonging to the fantasy genre , this is one of the milder , childish ones that anyone weaned ( and I hate to use this example but I should ) on Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy will find terribly wanting . This is this year's Eragon , which like The Lion , The Witch and The Wardrobe that preceded it , are trying just too hard to fill the void left by Jackson's Juggernaut . The bar was already raised by the adaptation of a classic , and unless more of these books-to-movies adaptation have something more original to tell , most of them will find themselves languishing in the Forgotten Realms soon enough .
A Nutshell Review : Scarred Angels	Scarred Angels left me scarred , as to what it is trying to say . It's based on a television series from the 1970s of the same title , and because I hadn't existed yet , I couldn't tell if it stuck close to the series , or revamped it for the modern times . The synopsis looked interesting enough , but I wasn't prepared at how much more is covered in the movie , that made it seem like it's heading nowhere . Sure , the crutch here is the theme of friendship , and looking at the movie , the relationship between the main protagonists , Ace Intelligence Agency private detective Mitsuru ( Etsushi Toyokawa ) and his partner Hisashi ( Kuroudo Maki ) , is nothing short of the buddy-buddy friendship of many detective stories out there . But wait , this movie is nothing to do with investigations or crime . Instead , down and out Mitsuru , working on possibly one of his last assignments , chances upon a dying mob boss , and makes a reluctant promise to delivery his son to his ex-wife . The first half of the movie dwells on this mission , done road trip style where the three characters play off one another's shortcomings in illicit some laughs . Most of the jokes , few and far between , fall flat , and imagine this , there's a scene that looked like Nacho Libre gone totally wrong . Scarred Angels became a victim of trying to squeeze too much material into too short a time , thus exhibiting an obvious lost in focus and direction . Perhaps in trying to demystify or debunk rumours that Mitsuru and Hisashi aren't gay , an unconvincing , boring , uneventful hint of a romance with a beautician gets thrown into the fray . Not that I'm complaining about the eye candy , but really , it's more of a distraction from the main plot , and when issues finally get resolved , the open ended relationship continued to chug along and added to an unnecessary run time of close to 2 hours . I can't think of any scene that is memorable , or worth raving about . Character wise too , there is nothing that stands out . It's kind of plain and evenly keeled , with little ups and downs , with nary a character development , or anything in the movie that will cause you to silently applaud .
A Nutshell Review : Human Lanterns ( DVD )	Human Lanterns is probably widely talked about as a cult martial arts film with some dabbling on the macabre . The opening credits show a warehouse with plenty of human remains atop a bloody grinder . In fact , it has all the ingredients of a torture porn flick , except that , horrors of horrors , this DVD edition comes censored ! So gone are the scenes where the victim's skin are peeled off their bodies to make the titular lanterns , though there was a fleeting boob shot from afar that the censors seemed to have missed . Anyway , the story is nothing remarkable , with two town braggers , Master Lung ( Tony Liu Yong ) and Master Tan ( Chen Kuan Tai ) at loggerheads and always scheming to be one up against the other . Tan shows off his latest human-sized lantern which gets the admiration of the simple townsfolk , and Lung decides to go one up on his rival . His search for a master lantern maker leads him to one time love rival Chun Fang ( Lo Lieh ) , who agrees to make him the most stunning lanterns ever seen , with a condition that he never visits his workplace . Best of all , they celebrate their strange union by visiting the whorehouse . Hmm . Also , a mysterious masked creature looking like an overgrown hairy ape with highly skilled kungfu start to terrorize the town , kidnapping young nubile females such as the # 1 courtesan and the sister of Master Tan , and given the nature of the disappearance , the animosity between the two men deepen to a deadly duel . However , it doesn't take you a second to figure out just who the man is behind the creature , and there's some needless tension built up around this mystery which seemed a little waste of time . The " police " too turn out to be rather foolhardy and inept , with the sergeant always listening to the two rich men , allowing his investigations to be poisoned by ill opinions from each of them on the other . Talk about siding with those who are rich or in power . While it can't be comparable to stuff we see today , for it's time I think the fight scenes were still interesting enough to engage audiences , given its myriad of weapons from swords to fans ( and the creature's gloved claws ) , and stunts . In fact , the stunts and sets were really impressive for its climatic battle , and I thought there was no stinginess in creating multi - layered sets for the actors to ply their martial arts abilities . What seemed to be interesting here though , is not the choreographed martial arts display , but rather the portrayal of the women's role in cultures back then . They are treated like playthings , with zero say in the ways of the world , reduced to gossipy aunties , and helpless damsels in distress . In fact , Lung's wife had to even tolerate , and even approve of her husband's infidelity . That said , Human Lanterns could have been a more entertaining watch , if not for the censoring of those crucial moments , making it like eating Char Kway Teow without the See Hum !
A Nutshell Review : Hostel Part II	Between the first Hostel released last year and its sequel , there have been countless number of torture porn movies released , like Turistas , Captivity , Wolf Creek , and the likes , so much so that audiences these days ( or fans of the genre ) bay for more blood to be spilled , the gorier the merrier . In that respect , Hostel Part 2 failed to live up to its predecessor's success in sticking to the blood , gore , violence , drug and nudity clauses that have become staple , and instead , opted for a perceived balance with its earlier film , which made it turn out to be a yawn . Like Kill Bill Vol 1 and 2 , Hostel and Hostel 2 are different beasts altogether . The first hostel was a horny excuse told from the male perspective , where a group of buddies go backpacking in Europe in search for ultimate pleasure , only to get sucked into something they had not bargained for . Hostel 2 starts off where the first had left , before we're introduced to a newer group of backpackers , this time from the opposite sex . Beth ( Lauren German ) , Whitney ( Bijou Phillips ) and Lorna ( Heather Matarazzo ) are three ( eye candy ) girls who find their way to the same Hostel thanks to a nude model Axelle ( Vera Jordanova ) , and before you know it , you've come to watch what you've expected . Except that things start to shift into high gear only about an hour into the movie . Prior to this , writer-director Eli Roth decided to show the audience the perspective of the other side - the lives of the customers in the form of Todd ( Richard Burgi ) and Stuart ( Roger Bart ) and their run up before savoring their game , and dwelled a little more on the business aspects of the hostel . What was briefly suggested and shown in the first movie , gets the in-depth treatment that frankly , those who're here to watch blood and gore , couldn't care less about . Whatever's left in the blood , gore , nudity department gets quite toned down , unlike its predecessor , so despite the similarities in structure , there is less gratuity in those aspects . It becomes a study of sorts of those who have too much money and not know what to do with it , of wanting to do something unique , and getting that " respect " and killer aura . It really took its time before getting into the groove , and to my surprise , it had quite a satisfying feel in its ultimate revenge and how that played out . It also included some fleeting commentary on how the dangerous , perverted ones are almost always the quiet ones , and those whose bark is loud , chances are their bite is nowhere close . Hostel Part 2 flopped at the US box office , and it's understandable why . Great eye candy doesn't cut it , and recycling a similar structure , with zero enigmatic villains ( especially businessmen ) , doesn't help the cause . The death sequences aren't really innovative ( I know I sound sick when I say that ) , and by not delivering what audiences have come to expect , I guess Hostel should just stick to 2 , being bookends of each other , and nothing else .
A Nutshell Review : Ghost Rider	Mark Steven Johnson , I hate to break it to you . 3 strikes and you're out . I understand your earnestness in trying to write-direct Marvel superhero movies by trying to stay close to the source material , but somehow they all turn out to be mediocre efforts . Although you didn't direct Elecktra , you produced and wrote it , and wrote-directed Daredevil and now Ghost Rider . I enjoyed Daredevil even though most others did not , and that unfortunately was your best effort . Marvel superheroes have their fair share of material being translated to the big screen , the largest cash cow being Spiderman , which opened the doors for efforts like The Hulk and Fantastic Four , creations of Stan Lee , and others , which I deem on the lower echelons , like Daredevil , Punisher , and Ghost Rider . The floodgates have not closed , as Spiderman and Fantastic Four will spawn their sequels this year , with Iron Man coming our way as well . Naturally not all the movies are hits , and too bad , I had hopes for Ghost Rider to join the hit list , even though I've not faithfully followed the comic books nor am a fan . I'm not quick to dismiss that comic book material can't be turned into powerful motion pictures . Batman Begins and the Spiderman movies have earned their mark of respect for having that emotional oomph to engage the audience , coupled with effects and stunts to wow . I guess we're spoilt from the excellent efforts of Christopher Nolan and Sam Raimi , as they've raised the bar and their movies are now the de facto benchmarks for comic book adaptations to reach . The first sign that things aren't going all that well , was that this movie was postponed , if I recall correctly , for almost one year , on the pretext of jazzing up the special effects . True , the flames on the skull were as realistic as can be , but that's about it . Every other effect seemed quite ordinary , and nothing to make the jaw drop . In fact , some CGI shots became so repetitive , that you start to wonder if the same clip was being recycled to save time . In essence , much like the origins of Daredevil , Johnny Blaze ( Nicolas Cage ) unwittingly signs a pact with the devil Mephistopheles ( Peter Fonda ) , and indirectly caused the death of his father . Blaming himself , and because of the sale of his soul to the devil , he abandons all hope in life , and his true love Roxanne ( Eva Mendes ) , and leads a dangerous life as a stunt biker who throws caution to the wind , knowing that he can't perish because of his secret " guardian angel " , and awaits the day when he can be free from fear and blame . Fast forward to the quick introduction of the main villain Blackheart ( Wes Bentley ) , son of the devil , who recruits the Elementals ( Earth , Wind and Water spirits of sorts ) in his cause to bring hell on earth . Yes , it's Constantine all over again . The plot was too vanilla plain , lacking much conflicts to challenge our anti-hero , besides his love interest . The villains , especially the Elementals , were a joke , and were so easily dispatched , that you'll scream for your money back . Given that it's an origin story of sorts , you'll get to see how Johnny becomes the rider who can walk on both worlds , and slowly get introduced to how he got his tools of the trade , including his jacket , gloves , chain , bike and shotgun . Unfortunately , one of the Rider's powers , the Penance Stare , is overused , and to cinematic audiences , we've probably seen a similar version in Alex Proyas ' directed The Crow starring the late Brandon Lee . While there are some remotely funny moments , most of the time the humour seemed contrived , and you'll probably cringe at some of the cheesy Western reference , no thanks too to one of the tracks performed by Spiderbait . If you're on the lookout for Stan Lee , who frequently pops into the Marvel films , don't . I think by steering clear , it's another indication that well , perhaps it's not as good a job as it should be . The narrative sagged in the middle , and contained some illogical , lazy plot moments , like a public transformation , and a busy jail house with no cops ( yeah right ) . Nicolas Cage could have been Superman with a hairpiece , but I thought he looked good as Johnny Blaze with a hairpiece . To his fans , you would've already seen the acting range he showed here , especially from John Woo's Face Off . That crazed look with the eyeballs almost popping out is repeated here , and at times , his Castor Troy scene comes to mind . Eva Mendes was largely wasted as the buxomy Roxanne who cock teases Johnny , and you actually wonder what Wes Bentley is doing in a movie like this . Sam Elliot shows up as the Caretaker , and is actually involved in a pretty cool scene which you might have seen revealed in the trailer . All in all , I would still say an enjoyable movie if you don't compare to , or have seen some of the other movies which I've mentioned above . It should do well at the box office in the initial week , before word of mouth gets to it . Fans of Ghost Rider , I sure would like to hear your views if you've liked it , or not , because after all , the fans are the ones who hold their hero dear .
A Nutshell Review : The Last Mimzy	Directed by the current CEO of New Line Cinema , The Last Mimzy is a children's fantasy movie which goes along the grains of having its children protagonists developing special powers , communicating with one another and with an alien object that no adult ( or anyone else for that matter ) can , and to help save some futuristic civilization . Sounds like a typical walk in the park for any children's movie you might add . The Wilder siblings Noah ( Chris O'Neil ) and Emma ( Rhiannon Leigh Wryn ) find a mysterious box with strange markings , containing some weird toys , amongst which includes a harmless looking soft toy bunny christened Mimzy . Soon enough Noah starts developing intellectual prowess bordering on genius and like Peter Parker would do without eyeglasses , while Emma , with Mimzy clutched closely to chest , starts to exhibit powers that a psychic would , in addition to being able to play five stones that float and with a light show included . As parents and adults ( Noah's schoolteacher and his wife ) , they have a natural tendency for disbelief and to second guess the children , as all adults would in a made for children's movie . And the authorities are hunting for them , just as they would , as targets of a resulting city wide blackout . If anything , the chemistry between the child actors playing the siblings is believable enough , and you would agree with me that Rhiannon Leigh Wryn is adorable as the kid sister whose innocence and love play a crucial role in the movie's plot . There are a few moments with injected humour , which I thought Asian audiences would identify with immediately with Kathryn Hahn's role as a " numbers " obsessed lady , and for technical geeks , watch out for that logo ( I've actually had a friend who was expecting it to pop out , and to our surprise , it did ! ) Expect the rudimentary plot development , characters as well as special effects that are just functional rather than to wow . It should serve as pretty interesting for a kid , but for an adult , we would have already seen other more superior stories , beginning with Spielberg's ET .
A Nutshell Review : All's Well End's Well 2009	It surprised me that this Hong Kong comedic franchise still had some legs to carry on with yet another installment , given that it's been some 12 years since the last film , which started off in 1992 starring Stephen Chow at his element , filled with plenty of " mo-lei-tau " jokes , and its fair share of obvious spoofs from well know movies . It's title ties in with none other than its release over the Lunar New Year period of the year , because it's believed that cinema goers automatically head for the comedies showing in the cinemas . Right , Jack Neo ? Each installment of the franchise share links with one another only in the title of the movie timestamped with the year , and its ending with the usual fanfare song and dance to usher in the Lunar New Year as well . And the second movie in 1993 was actually filmed in Singapore's now defunct and demolished Tang Dynasty City , being one of the rare ( if not the only ) film to have been done in its entirety at the location . Clifton Ko , who had been assuming directorial duties then , has now turned it over to Vincent Kok , while together with Raymond Wong , they retain producer credits . Just how zany or irreverent this addition to the franchise can become ? Unlike the previous films , the number of direct references for spoof purposes is much more obscure . Gone are the blatant in your face sight gags played just for laughs , and though there are the much touted scenes of emulating Daniel Craig's bare bodied emergence from the sea in Casino Royale , the actual scene is contrary to what the movie still would have you believe . Other references and cameo appearances / spoofs also take on a much subtler approach , so for an audience who blinked , you can forget about any rip-roaring laughter from start to end . But of course as a comedy , one can't fault the script for trying to piece everything together , resulting in one crazy and messy approach . A huge leaf taken from the Will Smith vehicle Hitch forms the central premise , where a love guru dispenses advice to his clients to help them achieve their objectives , while at the same time finding trouble to practice what he is teaching . Louis Koo's Koo Chai is the Asian Hitch equivalent with some hypnotic powers , being paid by Ronald Cheng's Kei to help his sister Sandra ( Sandra Ng ) get married , so that he can break the family curse that befalls each of his fiancées . The principles of seduction get into full swing to charm the successful alpha-female with a zilch love life in routines that you can see coming from miles away . There are however , some excellent one-off scenes , and my personal favourites are the dining table identity crisis scene , as well as a gambling one involving Raymond Wong ( given top billing here although he appears only from the halfway mark ) , Lee Heung-Kam and Sandra's real life dad Ha Chun-Chau , the latter two being her on-screen parents . I guess the filmmakers were quite unsure whether new faces could carry the franchise , so they had to rely on the tried and tested veterans , though folks like Sandra seem to be playing yet another usual character seen in many of her movies . Ronald Cheng though is a personal revelation and has quite the rubber face . Don't go expecting plenty of hearty laughter , as the set pieces do look more juvenile rather than genuinely funny , and are more misses than hitting the mark .
A Nutshell Review : The Olive Depression	The Olive Depression , a film in 8 parts , was originally scheduled to take its bow during last year's Singapore International Film Festival . Out of the blue it got yanked from the schedule of the inaugural festival section called the Singapore Panorama , and going by the synopsis alone , many had wondered if it was the critique contained within that made the powers that be frown upon what could possibly be an attack on an entrenched institution and rite of passage to turn local boys into men . It would have been an interesting addition to the repertoire of local films , because any big-bang action movie involving our armed forces would be somewhat far off , and we only have the comedy Army Daze , based upon the popular play by Michael Chiang , to show for any cinematic effort focused on our army . Perhaps comedy is the only allowed genre involving our forces , and centered around the 3 months Basic Military Training , which is supposedly the most grueling because you're the scum at the bottom of the food chain trying to survive a change in culture . The Olive Depression takes one step back and examines a boy's life two weeks before he enlists , and for all male Singaporeans , this inevitably will bring back some memories of our own D-day . For me , D-Day was a tour of Singapore , where I had to report to a nearby community centre , before going on a bus ride to a logistics base to collect equipment , then to the Central Manpower Base for the Oath , before travelling to Commando Jetty for a lunch , 30 bucks in cash , and a one way ride on the rough seas toward Pulau Tekong for 2 solid weeks of physical training . Like the character Trevor , my failing of the Napfa test meant an earlier enlistment , and missing out on my prom . Anyway that's my story , one amongst thousands who had gone before and after me . Joshua Lim's story and direction seemed to pull back the punches , though they aren't strong enough to begin with . Like how he opened the film in a General Paper examination setting , most of his pointed arguments automatically came with counter arguments to provide balance , be it from church members , older peers who had been there and done that , best friends and parents , and in a bizarre twist of irony , the story conforms eventually to a resignation to fate and what it started out opposing , rather than to stay the course in challenging the norms that it began with , proving to a certain extent that it is futile to resist , and assimilation being the order of the day . However it does get a little tedious in trying to buy the audience into some of the arguments spelt out . Lines of dialogue felt very heavy handed when it became a preachy platform , and you have obscure moments talking about conflict and competition , how the state can effect true control by affecting the minds of its people , terribly sweeping statements that felt like weak potshots against conscription , right down to complaining about cinema ratings and comments about living in Singapore Inc . Character faces are usually gloomy , but never fail to light up when , in colloquial terms , talking cock . Perhaps this boiled down to a relatively inexperienced cast regurgitating with lack of confidence and expression , the lines from a script rather than being made to feel these are actual sayings you and I will talk about . It became somewhat of a chore to sit through a talkie-film when statements made were wafer thin and came across as a complaint in 88 minutes , although there were one or two gems with regards made to the state of the system here , where everything's just a formality because they're all spelt out to you for compliance purposes . Ooi Jy's Johnny seldom smiles , because he chose not to , covering up his innate fear of enlistment with some false bravado of being nonchalant and spiteful of practically almost anything . Not surprising of course that his crush told him to lay off her and just be friends . It's not an appealing character to associate or identify with , and somehow was quite a turn off with his pissy attitude . If that's the reaction sought to elicit from the audience , that goal got achieved . Perhaps it wanted to mirror how many perceive life here , that you're given ample opportunity and various platforms to air your piece , but ultimately you are co-opted into what has been decided and established , and the only choice left is whether you'd want to look on the brighter side of things , or dwell miserably on the negatives that you have little power to overcome on your own . Like how the mother character puts it , you can have your own opinion , but keep it to yourself . The Olive Depression anchors itself as one of the rare military-themed films of Singapore . If only the delivery had been a little more slick and refined - at times the audio was muffled - and arguments felt less like mouthpieces from atop a soapbox , but after all this is a first feature film , and it's good to know that Joshua Lim has another film in the works called The Seminarian . I guess the only way to go from here is up .
A Nutshell Review : Curse of the Golden Flower	Zhang Yimou is desperate . Desperate for that elusive Oscar . In his third attempt to lift that statuette , he has stuck to the martial arts genre , still deciding to go headlong since Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon's ( CTHD ) win . For his previous attempts , he has utilized CTHD star Ziyi Zhang in both Hero and House of Flying Daggers ( HFD ) , and had resorted to casting big Asian stars like Jet Li , Tony Leung , Maggie Cheung , all of whom are known actors to the West , and the likes of Andy Lau and Takeshi Kaneshiro . Here , he dug deeper , and went to snag CTHD star , and another recognizable face Chow Yun-Fat , as well as ditching Ziyi Zhang for his original muse , Gong Li , in roles fit for royalty . Well actually , they are royalty in this Shakespearean inspired tragedy . Or should I call it comedy . The family of Chow as Emperor , Gong as Empress , and royal princes played by Jay Chou , Qin Junjie and Liu Ye , are as dysfunctional as can be . They scheme , they plot , they fight , they switch loyalties , they have deep dark secrets and huge skeletons in their closets . They have complex relationship problems of the paternal , maternal , brotherly , and you can probably name every issue from incest to heterosexual sex , they're all in it . These folks know how to love , but for all the wrong reasons , and in all the wrong ways . Someone should remind Zhang Yimou that story is key . Seducing audiences with costumes that show twin peaks , peekaboo moments , and having grand sets and massive foot soldiers running around , just can't cover up the lack of a strong story , and it lapsed into convenience of wrapping it up ala HFD with nonsensical , implausible ( maybe it's possible but I doubt ) plot elements . If you thought having HFD's extremely quick transition of the seasons bad , wait till you get a load of this , and its loopholes ( like one dealing with travelling time ) stuck out like a sore thumb . If you're expecting cool martial arts swordsplay , then I'm sorry , look elsewhere . The fights are few and far between , and nothing spectacular . Other than relying heavily on CG trickery , the fights are short of exciting , save for the first showdown at the beginning of the movie . It all went downhill after that , except for one scene where a funky weapon was wielded by one character . It brought back the memories of old Shaw Brothers martial arts flick where combatants wield the most interesting weapons like clubs and rakes , but this one takes the cake ! True to the theme , it's in gold too ! Despite its convoluted plot , which credit though , makes itself clear as the movie progressed , the actors are probably sleepwalking through their roles . Chow had little to do except be nasty ( and surprisingly , little screen time ! ) , Gong had to break out in sweat from her tight tube top , Jay looked extremely lost , while Liu Ye who played the Crown Prince , was portrayed as one horny bastard . The sets , while beautiful at first , gets tiresome after a while , especially the psychedelic palace decor which really will get to your nerves . This is truly a wannabe Banquet gone stale , and one wonders how much those gold plated stuff , if they're real , could have fetched on the market to make up for lost box office revenue once word gets out that it leaves a bad aftertaste . If there's any consolation , at least it's better than Chen Kaige's The Promise , and there's a scene here which is finger lickin ' good !
A Nutshell Review : Homerun	Having Homerun shown on television tonight was an opportunity to compare the masterpiece of the original Children of Heaven , and the local remake done by Jack Neo . To his credit , taking on such a film and remaking for the local audience is a feat of courage , and given that the young rookie Megan Zheng had actually won a Golden Horse award for her performance , I thought it would something at least . Sad to say , the movie is really quite devoid of a soul and lacks the innocent charm of the original . If you really want to watch this , then make sure you haven't seen Children of Heaven , or you'll be disappointed . First of all , it's an adaptation , so key scenes are replicated in Homerun . While not shot-for - shot , it still has elements that are instantly recognizable , and in attempts to deviate slightly from the original , some scenes were played out in verbatim , or found a needless desire to be explained in every minute detail . Jack Neo did try to infuse some environmental changes with Homerun , and had the setting and premise in 1965 Singapore , where we still had villages , and the production values allowed a Singapore of yesteryear to be recreated . However , in trying to carve out something still unique for Homerun , he put in what he knows best - I Not Stupid . While acting talent is scarce here , putting familiar faces into the movie , and again with the school setting , draws too much similarities and can't shake off the ghost of the I Not Stupid series . What created a slight ruckus at the time , was the incorporating of the spat between Singapore and our neighbour , in not-too-subtle scenes that on one hand tried to draw some laughter , and on the other trying to add some much needed depth to a bland copy of Majid Majidi's classic . In doing so , what was essentially achieved was to divert attention from the main story , and introduced some scenes of football , petty school spats ( you just got to love hating those small sized boys with big mouths ) and the issue on water , all of which only achieved one undesired objective , and that's to extend the runtime . Homerun was anything but a homerun in the making , and could have actually cut down such unwanted scenes to tighten the pace . While Megan Zheng might have won the Golden Horse award , she's no Bahare Seddiqi . The former's expression relied on plenty of tears , and a perpetual scowl she puts on her face . While Seddiqi endears , Zheng can't do any of that . Her screen sibling Ah Kun , played by Shawn Lee , is no better than Amir Farrokh Hashemian too . Ah Kun turned out to be lacking the street smarts , and was quite dependent on his friends to pull him out of his predicaments . So if you're looking at Homerun on the basis of the leads alone , they can't hold a candle to the original casted siblings . Honestly , Homerun is a decent production , but when compared to the original , it pales by plenty of miles . Understandably Jack is no Majid , but one thing that really irked me , is how Jack consistently shovels sympathy down your throat by replaying scene after scene of reminders of how pitiful the children are , now that they have to share a shoe , and reminders of how the shoe's disintegrating , and included a scene involving broken glass bottles , which is ridiculous and only there to milk some more sympathy points ( which backfired of course ) . Come on , we're not stupid , and too much of something done in such an obvious manner , will only cause the rolling of eyes . Children of Heaven , this is definitely not . Stick to the original , and nothing less .
A Nutshell Review : Miami Vice	Again we got the short end of the stick , having the movie released under NC-16 with snips , when an M-18 rating would have left the movie intact . And what was cut to satisfy the lower rating , were the sex scenes , as if to say we're all OK with the violence , but too prissy to make love . Written and directed by Michael Mann , who served as one of the executive producers of the original 80s television series starring Don Johnson as Sonny Crockett and Philip Michael Thomas as Rico Tubbs , this is one of the rare recent Hollywood remakes that had someone from the series helm the project . However , the movie version is a mixed bag , and it's not hard to understand why . Mann has built a reputation for solid , intense movies like Heat , The Insider and Collateral , and is deftly able to balance quiet moments with loud action . Miami Vice turned out to be flitting from one end of the spectrum to the other , with the quiet moments being absolutely horrendous , only to be saved by the roar of noisy toys , ranging from the Ferrari F430 Spider on land , the Adam Aircraft A500 in the air ( flown only by Foxx cos he got experience from Stealth ) , and the Donzi speedboats on water , peppered with the authentic symphony of various weapons like the Heckler & Koch G36C and the Benelli M4 Super 90 12-gauge semiautomatic shotgun ( this one is a beauty I tell you ) . While I like to think of it as a sophisticated cops and robbers movie , at times its execution is less than slick , and the storyline just pretty ordinary . It didn't help with its plot loopholes , or credibility issues with its police operations looking very much like what you can find in many Hong Kong movies of the same genre - the calvary only arrives after the heroes have taken out the baddies . The finale was climatic , but it suffered from the usual calvary problem , much akin to the monologues of villains when they have the heroes at their gunsights . What irked me more was perhaps key team members taking five , and unaccounted for during gun battles . It just didn't make much sense . In fact , the entire story arguably didn't make much sense , especially with the villains being so well informed and having access to intel , nor having the story compelling enough to engage the audience the full 135 minutes . Having trust issues is a given for any crime lord , but it probably means one thing - go do the job yourselves and build their own distribution channels . The cat and mouse here really went around and around , and capitalizing on an Asian-Cuban in Isabella ( Gong Li ) having a thing for white meat , is already a dangerous strategic play . The romance bit between Isabella and Sonny Crockett ( Colin Farrell ) is totally unbelievable ( yeah right , cos they making moves on each other , y'all ) , and really slowed down the entire movie . Speaking in bad English just made matters worse for Gong Li ( you can't fault her for effort ) too , and having them exhibiting their touchy-feely luurve in the den of the lion , is stupid . Colin Farrell and Jamie Foxx ( as partner Rico Tubbs ) lacked the chemistry two undercover buddy partners should possess . Most times they seem like two individuals outdoing each other , though there are moments where one gives up the limelight to the other . The trust between their characters is rarely shown , and amongst themselves , they seem to be challenging each other to outgrowl one liners in gruff tones while oozing machismo behind shades . They got attitude , but they got no soul . Despite being primarily a two-man team , they do have a backup squad straight out of Mission : Impossible , who steals some thunder during times of action . What worked with excellence , is the cool gritty cinematography from the HD cameras , giving this Miami Vice the look of danger and urgency from its jerky motions . Its action is no frills , most of the time being over before you get to see much , and everyone's plain trigger happy , which works - show no mercy , one shot one kill , go for the head style . Gun battles are few and far between , but nonetheless vividly realistic and the complete opposite to the poetic styles of John Woo ( fast vs slow motion , matter-of-fact vs deliberate style ) . Like many scenes in the movie where the weather always threatened to rain with its incessant thunder and lightning over the horizon , the movie had a roaring potential in delivering what the television series could not in terms of spectacle and the ability to punctuate the series ' spirit . However , it turned out only to be a slight drizzle , and ended up just Miami without much Vice . P . S . for our print at Grand Cathay , what's up with telling us that the print is copyrighted and certified for exhibition ? Is it a UK thing ? And no , we can't be bothered with taping the movie from hand-held cameras .
A Nutshell Review : Fatal Move	Written and directed by Dennis Law , Fatal Move was originally conceived as the prequel / sequel to 2005's SPL , which had Donnie Yen and Simon Yam pit their skills on the side of the law against triad members played by Sammo Hung and Wu Jing . SPL had an interesting concept to begin with , but I guess with the ending as it was ( a cop out in my opinion ) , a successful sequel with an interlocking storyline with the surviving characters would prove challenging . A prequel on the other hand might not be as engaging , as if we were to see the rise of Sammo's character to triad boss status , it would ring too much a bell with Infernal Affairs 2 . So Fatal Move offers a completely new storyline , albeit with most of the SPL main cast coming back for another go . Donnie Yen is absent ( I'll see him in action later with The Empress and The Warriors ) , and Simon Yam crosses over the fence to star as the brother of Sammo's triad boss character Lin Ho Lung . However , Yam's Lin Ho Tung seems to be having a walk in the park ( and in fact he really did ! ) , as is Lin Ho Lung , because those itching to see some serious butt-kicking action by Sammo Hung , will have to wait until the last 10 minutes of the movie . There are plenty of Milkyway regulars here , with Lam Suet , Cheung Siu-Fai and Maggie Siu on hand to lend their heavyweight support to appeal to Westerners here who are familiar with their works , and Danny Lee returns after a long hiatus to play , what else , a cop yet again . The storyline is nothing to wow over , and most times seemed to be running on a railway track , completely fixed and one-way , chugging along almost endlessly , without a destination in sight . Character motivations were unclear , and Tien Niu as Lung's wife Soso really let it all rip in a melodramatic monologue that contains a lot more story in her words than all the dialogue put together in the movie . It's about the self-destruction of a triad gang from internal strife from the greed of man , but its central theme was touched upon in a rather haphazard , messy manner that you'd wonder if the sub-plots were just bookends for the action sequences . However , despite its title , Fatal Move is severely lacking in compelling action scenes . You have the tired car chases , and it seems that there was little effort in trying to milk what Wu Jing and Sammo Hung could do . They're martial arts exponents , but get to handle guns most of the time , and this does not exploit the skills they are trained with , which you can probably employ anyone to take over their place . Most of the fighting sequences were courtesy of Wu Jing , who's especially mean with his lopsided blue-dyed hairdo and an extremely sharp sword , but given no competent exponent character-wise to spar with him , it all boiled down to a one-sided affair . Seriously I'm a fan of his and I think it's about high time he takes over the starring role mantle for Chinese action movie stars , instead of getting bogged down playing side show villains . What gets compensated for the uninspiring action sequences , was blood and gore done in CGI . I'm placing my bets that Herman Yau , as director of photography here , would have added some of his own pointers in this aspect , and the camera does linger on in some of the more violent and gory aspects , such as pumping continuous lead into a body , and various forms of decapitations involving limbs and fingers , right down to a castration . The much touted fight between Sammo Hung and Wu Jing was the main draw for me I have to admit , but if you were to put SPL and this side by side , Wu Jing vs Donnie Yen had a lot more intensity and slick moves compared to Wu Jing vs Sammo Hung . But alas despite the M18 rating here , the movie was still subjected to multiple edits ( originally rated R21 uncut , but no thanks of course to money-making distributors ) , and most of the gory bits couldn't escape the censor's scissors . What made it unforgivable , was that the much awaited duel too became victim , and for that , with the insipid storyline and relatively generic action , I would have to recommend that this be skipped at the cinemas , and rent the DVD if you're really interested .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Jeepers Creepers ( 2001 )	I've heard much hype about this horror film , and decided to take a look into it . It delivered some thrills , but nothing fantastic to rave about . Starring Justin Long and Gina Philips as siblings on a road trip home , perhaps it is the relationship between the two which is refreshing , yet tinged with a sense of familiarity . Instead of the usual boy-girl romantic relationships which are staples of horror movies , sibling rivalry gets the nod , which to an audience , is something easier to identify with . The main baddie is the unexplained - a mysterious man riding in a beat up armoured truck whom the siblings see dumping wrapped bodies in a church . Against his sister's advice , Darry decides to investigate , and hence they become the latest prey of the creature . We do not know anything more about it , only that it rises every 23 years , for 23 days to feed , to take something from his prey , and doing so by inflicting fear , and smelling . The creature makeup is interesting , like a cross between a mer-man and a vampire bat , but you don't get to see it in its full glory until the end . And the end to some , might be a disappointment , as it still left things unexplained . Maybe that's the appeal , that you're free to interpret . There should be a lot of gore in this movie , but I suspect the Code 3 edition has pared it down quite a bit . In short , this movie is one extended country road trip , with some mysterious elements and motivations added . Nothing too fancy , nothing too horrific . And yes , it did spawn a sequel . Code 3 Extras : Trailers , Cast and Crew Interviews .
A Nutshell Review : Bewitching Attraction	Billed as a romantic sex comedy , Bewitching Attraction is neither full of raunchy sex ( ala another movie in town now - Lie With Me ) , nor is it full of laughs . It's an acquired taste , with sporadic nudity and sex , and rests its wit in black comedy instead . Starring Moon So-Ri in the female lead role of textiles professor Eun-suk in a rural town , and Ji Jin-hee as Park Seok-gyu , a comics illustrator turned lecturer , Bewitching Attraction relies heavily on the chemistry of its leading cast to carry through a convoluted plot . Eun-suk , a lady with a limp , is extremely promiscuous , having had sex with most of the men in her faculty , possessing with her much influence on the men with her sexuality . An environmental activist , she also harbours ambitions in branching into television , hence the early sex sequence with a TV show producer - nothing much really , just full of pumping action . Enter Seok-gyu into the fray as the new lecturer , and the other folks feel threatened with the arrival of the good looker . You'd thought for a minute that the two will hit it off straightaway , but both have this cold shoulder exhibited . The rest of the story deals mainly with the slow revelation of a deep dark secret these two share way back in high school , which involves death in a plot line similar to that of Dorm's swimming pool . In some sick fashion , I kinda enjoyed ( ! ) the way it was played on screen , it looked horribly realistic . And the black comedy continues from then on , as if both characters are that forbidden alignment of the stars , that when brought together , will cause the tragic demise of those around them . I've got to give the movie credit though , that these sequences happen when you least expect it , or if you are expecting it , the delivery will still manage to surprise you for a bit . And is it just me , or does Moon So-Ri look like Michelle Chia from certain angles in the movie ? Somehow she looks really to die for at certain angles , while other angles made her look pretty ordinary . You gotta check it out to see what I mean . But it's recommended only if you cannot get tickets to other more worthy summer movies . With the barrage of Korean movies of the same genre lately ( dealing with romance ) , this could possibly be one of the weakest K-offering this season .
A Nutshell Review : Aliens vs . Predator : Requiem	My very first encounter with Aliens Versus Predator , was actually a coin operated arcade game some more than 10 years back . For 20c for 3-5 chances ( depending on how the owner configured the machine ) , you can choose between a 2 Predator Warriors , or 2 humans , to go up against an Alien infested land , where you score points with multiple Alien kills , and get to use some of the cool weapons ( always like those killer discs ) and combo moves to finish off opponents . Needless to say , who would want to use the human characters , when you can play Predator ? The PC game then emerged , this time sticking closer to the " Versus " format , where you can pick to play either character from a first person perspective , and have at your disposal the multitude of weapons and moves , making it truly a gaming experience , if not for my crappy PC of the time not being able to support the gameplay in full . These games actually game off the heels of the relatively successful movies , which are not works of art , but fairly decent action movies . In Predator , we have Arnold Schwarzeneggar and later Danny Glover in the sequel pitting their know how in rural and urban landscapes respectively , while in the Alien Quadrilogy , it made Sigourney Weaver arguably one of the first and most well known female action hero with her Ripley , under the masterful direction of Ridley Scott , James Cameron , David Fincher and Jean-Pierre Jeunet , who also introduced Winona Ryder to the franchise . And with the successful creation of these cult characters , they found longevity in the games mentioned , as well as various books and graphic novels , challenging other established heroes to duels , until someone thought it would be a great idea to pit these two foreign creatures against each other in a movie , already having their respective fan bases to support it . Hence the first Aliens Versus Predator movie was born some three years ago , which for a strange reason , I did and have not yet watched . The sequel begins almost immediately where the first one left off , with an Alien ship having in its hold a dead Predator , who is suddenly found to be a carrier of the Alien larvae . Naturally this dude becomes the chief baddie with developing a hybrid Alien-Predator look , but sad to say , with none of their powers combined . Everyone on board gets pawned by the hybrid and the ship crash lands on Earth , thus beginning the second round . A new Predator watches the proceedings via Cable TV at his comfy sofa at home , and decides that he should preserve the honour and purity of his species , by going to Earth and killing off the bastard incarnation and its offspring , hence the hunter and the prey are set , whichever way you look at it . So the trailers seem to suggest the human involvement this time round , but seriously , they are caricatures that need to make up the death toll . While the respective franchise movies have a very strong human element in them , this one only has humans as fuel for gore . Which brings to mind that Transformers had a strong human aspect to it , which was panned by purists who want more of the robots . Here , we get a lot of Alien and Predator action , so let's not start by clamouring for more human soul and character development . Heck , this movie doesn't even need a storyline , but requires just an excuse to have the two species share the same screen and whack the living daylights out of each other , with humans as collateral to spill red blood , rather than gooey muck , or green plasma . It's basically one Predator pulling all the tricks in its book using weapons we're already so familiar with , it's like second nature guessing what this lone wolf will utilize next . The Aliens here pose little threat really , and look more like rehashing the mood it likes in cold , dark and dank sewers , before breaking out to the city and unleashing hell on earth . And in this movie , everyone is fair game because it's not Titanic as one character puts it , so women and children enjoy no sanctity . One complaint I have though of the blood bath , is that almost all the action take place at night , which of course makes it perfectly easy for the CG folks to cut corners if necessary , and marred by the many close-up shots that make you see nothing perfectly too . As mentioned , don't go about looking for any semblance of a plot , which involves very clumsily , a mom returning from a theatre of war , some adolescent hormonal flings , an ex jailbird , and a town sheriff . Naturally they have watched either The Mist or 30 Days of Night , and with the ambiguous and strange serial killings in town , decide to hole up in a supermarket ( again ! ) to stock supplies before venturing to safety . I vote the Supermarket as Cinematic Refuge for the Year 2007 . With the usual sarcastic take on the Government ( not lying to its citizens , and the final army decision taken which looked like a cop out ) , Aliens Versus Predator : Requiem , which was supposed to be shown on Christmas day , is just another pop corn movie with two men in rubber suits ushering in 2008 . Forget the story and characters , as we want to celebrate mindlessly and herald the new year with violence . Auld Lang Syne !
A Nutshell Review : Evan Almighty	Surprisingly , Evan Almighty is not a comedy per se . A sequel to the Jim Carrey movie Bruce Almighty , where Steve Carrell played a television journalist Evan Baxter - the one with the rubbery face giving Jim a run for his own money , this movie is sans Jim , and Steve is thrust into the leading role , with writer Steve Oedekerk ( the one who gave us androgynous Barnyard cows ) providing Evan Baxter a fast track in his career , to that of a newly elected Congressman . What Evan Almighty is , is serious family drama . For anyone out there working hard ( read : workaholic ) , this story is a reminder on the finer , more important things in life , and that is family ties , and never to neglect your kids as they are growing up . To anyone bringing home the bacon like Evan Baxter ( and to feed that fuel guzzler of a vehicle ) , these work-life balance scenarios are sometimes more myth than can be actually achieved . Building his campaign on the promise of Changing the World , he now has to deliver those election vows , much to the dismay of his wife and kids whom he had uprooted and moved to new suburbia . And like The Willow Tree - not that this movie is as classic as that - be careful what you wish for from the Old Man upstairs , as sometimes he has a strange sense of humour , or wanting to teach you how to fish rather than grant you that fish himself . Ask and you shall receive , but you know not in what form that wish will come in . There's a poignant moment , for those who make requests from time to time , that the Almighty provides an opportunity for you to achieve something , rather than providing you with that something without you earning for it , or presenting it on a silver platter . Miracles don't come easy nor cheap these days . Morgan Freeman reprises his role as God . One of my favourite character actors , I felt he has immense presence in whatever roles he takes on , and it's no wonder he's given this manifestation of the supreme being . There was a slight tongue-in-cheek moment in the story where he referred himself as a storyteller of sorts , and those who have followed Freeman's career roles ( I've only done so for the last 25 years or so ) , would know that's a reference to his days as the Easy Reader on the Electric Company . Thanks to 40 Year Old Virgin , we do know Steve Carrell is kind of hairy , and as Evan Baxter turns into Noah , this wealth of hair comes into great use . But Steve's not Jim , and the story doesn't allow Steve to exhibit any kind of physical comedy , unless you count the repeated falling from heights funny , or his trying his darndest best to escape from animals who come calling , making him seem like a reel alternative to Eddie Murphy's Dr Doolittle . It takes while for Evan to finally resign himself to God's commandment , and that actually doomed the movie to some uninspiring scenes just going through the motions , which the trailers have more than covered with the skeptics doubting and mocking Evan as Noah . Even Steve's little crazy jig expires after a while . The supporting cast of John Goodman , Lauren Graham from the Gilmore Girls , and Wanda Sykes all seem to be playing caricatures , and amongst the three , Sykes unfortunately turned out to be the most irritating of the lot , spouting one-liners so bad , you'll cringe in your seat . But one-dimensional characters aside , Evan Almighty did boast some nicely done , especially when you see the ark in its final glory and gets put into some use , reminiscent however of a turkey of a movie in Speed 2 : Cruise Control . Evan Almighty could probably join the list of sequels that shouldn't be made , but tear away its association with its predecessor , it might work as a standalone given the strong human emotions , and its cursory statements on environmental issues should it be paid more attention to . Saving the earth , saving the animals are contemporary themes these days , and with the reminder on performing Acts of Random Kindness , there are moments when watching the movie that you'll nod your head in concurrence .
A Nutshell Review : Space Pirate Captain Harlock : Arcadia of My Youth ( Waga Seishun No Arukyadia )	The second movie for the festival is another anime , albeit an older one , belonging to the 80s . I vaguely remember watching the series on television as I recall the familiarity of the pirate motif spaceship . But maybe I remembered wrong , as there are plenty of such space aged cartoons in those days , like Macross , Gundam , and the likes . The introduction already put me off , with a really repetitive Phantom Harlock flying his red biplane and monotonous introduction of his name , over and over again . The plot takes some getting used to , with the bombastic names as we follow this rogue pilot / pirate in his quest to duel with Commander Zeda of the Illmidus alien race . Watching this early 80s animation brings about the obvious comparisons and observation of how advanced animated movies have become . It's obviously 2-D drawings here , and plenty of details which were not possible to be included . Things like background characters having continuity presence issues ( varying numbers amongst a crowd in a constant setting ) , and objects appearing and disappearing for the same reason that drawing by hand , takes up time , and yet draws attention to themselves . And having to draw many , well , sometimes animators do become lazy . This is most unlike today's computer generated graphics where crowd and objects are rendered with a click of the button , and possibly given some artificial intelligence along the way so that they can seem to " act " independently . Space battles have become a dime a dozen , and watching this film today , sadly , the battles are not as exciting as it should have been , with its numerous laser cannon scenes . Some scenes were repeated by showing stock clips over and over again , and brings back fond memories of how , as a kid , you tend to see past these shortcomings , and enjoy the animation for what it is . In today's standards , this will be judged more like stemming from the indifference from the animators , and the lack of pride and professionalism . The characters here are typical of Japanese anime , with weird coloured hairdos , and quite surprisingly , this movie loads up on the melodramatics and exaggerated dialogue . Compared with anime of today , there has been vast improvement in story pacing , setting , and character design . While there were families and kids watching Final Fantasy VII : Advent Children , and this one , it wasn't unexpected that this anime too had its fair share of walk outs , probably because of the hard-to-grasp storyline for toddlers , or the insane need to read subtitles and then explaining to the kids what some of the imaginary words meant . P . S . somehow the screening was marred by the speakers set to maximum volume . The dialogue and musical fanfare just got drilled through your ears into your head and probably gave everyone a splitting headache watching it . The first boo-boo for the festival , and I really hope it's the last .
A Nutshell Review : Quarantine	Call it a case of deliberately engineered deja-vu , that I consciously decided to sit through this American remake of the recently screened Spanish horror film REC . Well of course the purpose is to discover if what's essentially the same story and technique employed , could get screwed up in a remake , given that Hollywood more often than not , lets down the original brilliance which they think they can replicate easily to translate to box office dollars . So what's the verdict ? If you've already watched REC , then this one just simply pales in comparison , because of the need to be verbatim , and somehow the filmmakers here found it necessary to tell you every now and then , that there's actually someone behind the camera . Scott the cameraman ( Steve Harris ) appears quite often in front of the camera , well , and actually does so from the onset . Also , to up the body count quotient , new characters were included ( although supporting ones ) , and unlike the original which had an opening scene dedicated to the fire station filled with more meat , here it drones on and on at how the assigned firemen are getting the hots for reporter Angela Vidal ( Jennifer Carpenter ) . The storyline's almost the same , save for a few more extra scenes included to jazz up the gore department , and to incorporate some additional action elements . Otherwise , there's plenty of overacting here by everyone , so much so that instead of rooting for the characters to get out of their predicament , you're more likely to find yourself wishing that they meet their demise soon enough . Such is the original essence lost , and with that , what primarily works in REC . Between the two Angela Vidals , I'd confess that Jennifer Carpenter can't hold a candle to Manuela Velasco . The latter's the sweet damsel you'll risk life and limb to save , whereas the former , well , you'd just wish that she shuts the hell up and stop barking orders . I guess the direction of John Erick Dowdle will have take responsibility for that not-too-subtle difference between the Vidals . And through this film I'd learnt to appreciate how the shaky-cam was used to great effect in REC , and how easy it is to lapse into pitfalls as in Quarantine . Same storyline and plot development , same technique , relatively the same type of characters , but totally different outcomes in terms of how it engages the audience , because there were crucial moments where it failed to understand the need for restraint . Sure you can't expect rocket science to be coming out of this film , but unfortunately it joins the pile of " remakes that don't make it " . Word is REC2 is currently in production , so I'll be looking forward to that , and hoping that there won't be a Quarantine 2 to embarrass itself .
A Nutshell Review : Hannah Montana / Miley Cyrus : Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour 3	Alright , I have to confess that I have no clue as to who Hannah Montana is , except that she is some " it " girl with some links to Disney , and was spoofed in Superhero Movie . She's a character played by Miley Cyus , daughter of Billy Ray Cyrus , who has to don a long and silky blonde wig to play her alter ego , and perhaps the only time I've seen Miley perform , was lending her non singing voice in Bolt . So I was precisely the proverbial fish out of water who knew zilch about the influence of Miley's reach , and know nothing too about the songs in both Montana and Cyrus ' discography . But of course that didn't persuade me otherwise not to go for this concert movie to find out a lot more in under 90 minutes , and being a 3D movie provided extra reason to do so as well . Being what would be my first 3D concert movie , the depth of field here worked wonders in tricking your senses that you were there at the performance , and every hand that shot up to wave about , or a pop of a head because of enthusiastic fans jumping up and down , would have you either want to reach out and slap them , or like the kids in the audience , they too were lured to mimic such typical enjoyment as if they were there , swaying , dancing , running around , doing cartwheels even ( ! ) just in front of the screen . These kids provided an additional D with their honest , devil-may-care participation . One too would expect just performance of a number after performance , and the only truly 3D-ish moments was the drummer who executed tossing his drumstick into the air , and with Miley herself throwing one right toward the camera , which made you cringe . Other than that , there's nothing unusual , and the documentary aspect of preparing for her concert turned out to be rather plain as well , beginning with designing the stage and the moves on a mock location , before wrapping everything after a full dress rehearsal for the actual performing location . Expect a number of talking heads from parents to co-performers peppering this concert movie , though there's absolutely nothing scandalous being said , more like plenty of pats on the back . Of the " two " performers here , personally I preferred Miley Cyrus ' turn rather than Hannah Montana , which I felt was a little bit fake to begin with , and of the songs performed , I had preferred Cyrus ' selection over Montana's . Then again , what would I know , since they're essentially the same person , and the age group this is targeted at , would have more discerning opinions . I'm just there to soak up the atmosphere , really . Give us U23D !
A Nutshell Review : Deception	The big joke making its rounds here about this movie was in its promotional poster for this part of the world . Perhaps to the West , Maggie Q would be just the chick from MI : 3 and didn't warrant top billing , or a photograph in its poster . Here , we have a badly pasted " extra " face of hers plastered on the poster , supposedly banking on her popularity with Asians . Only that as it turned out , she only has 5 minutes worth of screen time , appearing in black lacy lingerie , and doing nothing . If that's the case , then Natasha Hendrige should also be included in the poster , since she's famous for showing off her body in the Species movies , and continues to do so here to remind everyone she hasn't really lost it yet . While Hancock has been proved not guilty of putting everything in the trailer that you can write a review out of it , the same cannot be said of Deception , no matter how its title sounded like in trying to throw you off track . It is exactly as it is played out in the 2 odd minutes of it , so if you were to want and try to enjoy this , do not watch any of its trailer nor its stills . It really ruined it outright , stripping away all surprises in store . And while Hancock kept important stuff under wraps to bring about heightened pleasure when all get revealed , Deception's " surprise " was like a limp premature ejaculation which didn't make much sense , and insults the audience . But that's not to say that it was bad all the way . The premise had potential , and if you're going into it blind , then there are enough to intrigue you , especially when it comes to the turn . Ewan McGregor slicks back his hair and puts on glasses to give himself the stereotypical bookish accountant look , in a firm to audit their books . As with all audits , keeping lonely late night vigils is a norm as everyone in the firm you're auditing automatically shun you , for fear of getting questioned . His Jonathan McQuarry cuts a pitiable figure that most of us in the corporate world will probably understand . In comes a highly sociable , humorous , and charismatic legal counsel of the firm , Wyatt Bose ( played by Hugh Jackman , who also serves as producer ) , and the two hit it off over a late night filled with jokes and the sharing of pot in a conference room , before getting so chummy with each other , that going to strip clubs to chill out seemed perfectly OK . In a careless accident , they switch cell phones , and before you know it , Jonathan gets all excited over the prospect of milking Wyatt's exclusive high society sex club membership , where members call each other up anonymously through the service , and asks a seemingly innocent question " Are you free tonight ? " . Sure there are rules to Sex Club , such as no names , no details , no casual chit-chats , just the caller booking a room at the hotel , and the callee turning up as arranged to get their respective rocks off . I'm sure by now plenty of ah-peks would be interested to watch the movie already , but its M18 rating ensured that everything put on screen isn't hardcore stuff . I won't be surprised too if something of this nature already exists , serving a rich clientèle who spend 90 % of their waking hours in the office , leaving no time for anything else . Think of it as a matchmaking service that goes into that bit of extra . Complicating matters of course is when Jonathan falls genuinely in love with one of the members called S ( Michelle Williams ) , whom he met outside of the club at a train station . Being totally smitten with her , he refuses to do the deed , and breaks almost all the rules . Then begin the cat and mouse mind games , which of course would have worked , but the last act just became convenience after convenience , that made it eventually a very lazy piece of storytelling . Deception tried , but didn't try hard enough . It had great foreplay , adequate skills , but no stamina to last the distance . Strictly for fans of McGregor and Jackman only , and of course those who still want to check Maggie Q out in lingerie , or to admire that Hendsridge still has it in her .
A Nutshell Review : Shutter	Someone remind me what's the point of a remake again ? A dearth of ideas ? Thinking that one can do the job better ? Don't laugh but one of the better Asian horror I've seen ( probably amongst the first few too in recent years ) was the Thai movie Shutter , which played on the plot device of spirit photography , those strange streaks of blurs that cover weird angles in a photograph , and with a vivid imagination , you can even make out faces of people you know , or know not . There are remakes which challenge on the technical fronts - having to recreate scenes shot by shot , or those helmed by master directors in the hopes of injecting some depth into characterization and story . Some filmmakers even choose to remake their own films with a different cast ( Funny Games anyone ? ) , and the list goes on . But one thing's for sure , I seriously hope that the number of Asian horror remakes start to dwindle , given that the westernized versions pale in comparison to their Asian originals , and Shutter happens to be one of them . OK , so perhaps half the fun was eliminated when you know just about every plot twist and turn , character motivation , and probably even what dialogue will come out of the actor's mouths ( so I jest ) . But in all earnestness , I reckon that this remake will appeal more to those who have not seen the original . It's easy to be thoroughly bored because you know just what's about to come , and can eliminate red herrings , as well as spot the now-so-obviously subtle hints that the characters try to hide unsuccessfully . Also , you can bet your last dollar that Hollywood will again go over the top in trying to explain everything verbatim , as well as attempting to up the ante with the finale , but in doing so , tried too hard . I do not deny that it was much needed tension too little too late toward the end , but really , it added nothing to the plot besides succeeding in making you squirm . Technically this remade version boasts nicer production values , but lacked the edginess that the original had to offer , well , because the directing duo of Banjong Pisanthanakun and Parkpoom Wongpoom were rookies then , and lacked certain horrific charm and soul ( pardon the pun ) . In fact , there was one critical scene which the Thai version had which boasted some ingenuity in a tracking shot , but one which the remake had chickened out to do , opting instead for cheap CG and unnecessary cut-shots . So the remade had blinked first , and didn't offer any really frightening moments to genuinely scare . Somehow I thought it was rather subtly pre-occupied with sex , given that you have a great looking cast with Joshua Jackson as Benjamin Shaw the photographer , and his newly wedded wife Jane Shaw , played by Rachael Taylor . For some reason , Japan gets automatically associated with Asian horror , and that's where this remake was set in , maybe because the director - Masayuki Ochiai - is Japanese too . But the final straw which I found really disturbing , was the lack of acknowledgement that this is a remake . There's nothing in the opening credits to inform the audience that it is one ( the original Thai directors given only producers credits ) , and probably tried to pass off as an original story . Recommended of course to those who have not seen the original ( even then I'd suggest you only watch the Thai version ) . Those who have , are advised to steer clear .
A Nutshell Review : The Mourning Forest	Winning the Grand Prix of the Cannes Film Festival last year , I actually found it a tad difficult to appreciate this piece by Naomi Kawase , as compared to Shara . I am beginning to suspect that I have a profound disengagement with movies that deal with grief and loss , especially when it takes on a very detached approach in some ways with the characters constantly unable to deal with those emotions for the most parts . The movie opened true to Kawase's penchant for capturing moving air . Here , we see lush greenery on tree tops dancing to the motion of wind , and vast open fields where blades of grass sway back and forth when caressed by the breeze . It's like watching a National Geographic episode of forests and greenery before the opening credits kicked in to start the film proper . I even suspected that M Night Shyamalan could have paid homage in his The Happening , which also had plenty of such shots put into it . The story tells of the relationship that formed between Shigeki ( Shigeki Uda ) and Machiko ( Machiko Ono ) , the former an old man in an elderly home who has been aloof after the lost of his wife some 33 years ago . 33 years is an extremely long time , and to miss someone for that long , well , you know how strong his emotions are to his wife . On the other hand , Machiko is a staff at the same elderly home , but she too is grieving internally for the loss of her son , and her husband squarely puts the responsibility and blame on her petite shoulders . While initially starting off on the wrong foot with fiery misunderstanding , they soon hit it off in a game of tag in the great outdoors , where the camera pulls back to reveal again the large open spaces , and the two protagonists finding and connecting with each other , two tiny creatures in the space that Nature offered , only to act as a precursor of a more adventurous outing that would come soon after , in an excursion that took a turn for the unexpected when their car ran into a ditch . In what seemed to be a wandering around aimlessly on foot deep inside nature herself , both Shigeki and Machiko had to depend on each other to keep to their wildlife tour , with the former having the objective of wanting to look for his late wife's grave , like a pilgrimage in itself . The observations from far earlier gives way to a more intimate look at the two , and Shigeki turned into some kind of enigma , clutching his all important haversack , as they go from set piece to set piece , some quaintly quiet , while others I seem to make no headway from sudden outbursts which persisted as being more whiny than anything else . Might be a masterpiece for some to appreciate , especially with its beautiful cinematography , but everything else was certainly lost on me probably due to my lack of extreme patience , and I grief in not being able to be moved by this movie .
A Nutshell Review : Golden Swallow	Touted as the sequel to King Hu's Come Drink With Me starring Cheng Pei Pei , this movie is anything but . Except for the return of Pei Pei's Golden Swallow role , Chang Cheh's movie doesn't share any similarities with King Hu's original , clearly stamping his own take on his movie utilizing the lead character from Come Drink With Me , and relegating her to supporting role status . As a fan of the original , this is downright disappointing , as I had expected to see Pei Pei kick some serious rear again as the fabled swordswoman . Instead , what we get is a story involving a love triangle of sorts , with costars Lo Lieh as Golden Whip Han Tao , a man who saved Golden Swallow from bandits and nursed her back to health , and Wang Yu as a beau from long time ago , who now calls himself The Silver Roc . The Drunken Cat , with whom Golden Swallow rode into the sunset with , is clearly forgotten and totally written out . In actuality , this movie can be renamed The Silver Roc . The story centers on this figure , an orphan bearing a scar on the forehead similar to Harry Potter's , and is one of the fellow disciples to Golden Swallow's teachers . Disappearing one night to seek revenge on his family's murderers , he resurfaces to look for Golden Swallow , and does so by killing villains in her name , in an attempt to lure her out of seclusion . Being the self-proclaimed number one swordsman with an attitude helps too , and not before long , our trio will meet , with Golden Swallow being indecisive about both alpha males , that they have to duke it out to settle scores . In Chang Cheh's signature ketchup blood style , this movie doesn't lack in the gore department , with really bloody scenarios , dismembered bodies , slashes to face and an inspiration to Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom , albeit done in a more straightforward manner . But some of the kung fu moves seemed recycled from One Armed Swordsman , especially Wang Yu's Silver Roc , who holds his sword akimbo similar to his One Armed days . And his much revered " Coup De Grace " killer move was never seen until the finale , and that too was too weakly executed and laughable . I wondered too about numerous scenes where characters liked to leap out of windows , clearly to a mat at the bottom , out of the screen . But one thing's a bonus , and that's having plenty of outdoor shots versus indoor studio ones , which boosts production values a little . Still , it's a decent martial arts flick , but one which could have been miles better . With Wang Yu hogging too much of the limelight with his character in this movie , it suffers by neglecting the other leading characters by Lo Lieh , and especially Cheng Pei Pei , because the movie , after all , is named after her Golden Swallow , or in the original English title , it's the Girl with the Thunderbolt Kick ( apparently it's a misnomer , she doesn't have that skill , nor executed any recognizable kicking moves ) . If anything , watch out for a young Wu Ma as Hu Zhen , a supporting character and friend of Golden Swallow and Han Tao . Nothing memorable , but just a getting a kick out of recognizing a star ( to me at least ) in his earlier youthful looking days .
A Nutshell Review : Collateral Damage ( 2002 )	This was one of the films whose release schedule was affected by the terrorist attacks on September 11 2001 , because its content touched a raw nerve , having depicted terrorists detonating bombs in downtown Los Angeles , and planning another at Washington DC . Even when released finally in 2002 , the big budgeted action sequences did not succeed in making the film a decent box-office success . It was also Arnold Schwarzenegger's last few films before he ran for Governor , and in this film , he plays yet another heroic figure , a fireman called Gordy Brewer whose intrinsic responsibility is to save lives . However , his family became collateral damage in a Columbian freedom fighter's bringing of terror onto the shores of the USA , and this caused an about turn in Brewer's character into a life-taker , seeking revenge . Given that the government's hands are tied , Brewer decides to go at it alone , planning to go after The Wolf whose organization admitted responsibility to the bombings that killed his wife and child . The movie then plods along as we follow Brewer's infiltration into Columbia and to the terrorist organization's base camp . He meets up too with The Wolf's wife and kid , and somehow forms a bond with them , given his own loss . The action contains nothing much that has never been seen before , so those who are expecting thrills and spills along the lines of the fantastic Arnold vehicle True Lies will be disappointed . However , things pick up towards the last 30 minutes into the show , as the plot contains a slight twist that catches you off guard and makes you go " now why didn't I think of that " . It kinda plays on the assumptions of man , and why couldn't it be possible I'd say . The violence begets violence message in this movie is obvious from the onset , and makes you wonder about the world today with the terrorist threat always looming . Some scenes like the planned attack on the train station might also ring too close for comfort , given that real train attacks in Madrid and London did happen since the movie's release . Nonetheless , this movie is still watchable , and perhaps it is inevitable that you wonder why Arnie's star seemed to fade out during his last few films . Perhaps it's too much of the same thing without much variation on the heroic action . Nothing much can be said of Arnie's acting , but it's pretty amazing the amount of mayhem a lone fireman can inflict ! Code 1 DVD Extras : Audio commentary by director Andrew Davis , additional deleted scenes , and two documentaries : A Behind the Scenes and one titled " The Hero In A New Era " containing mostly interviews with Arnie and Andrew Davis .
A Nutshell Review : Escape from Huang Shi	So the posters have Chow Yun Fat's mug splattered in the center and given top billing . However , this is actually Jonathan Rhys Meyers ' vehicle as he plays the central character of George Hogg , an Associated Press reporter who smuggles himself into Nanjing pre-WWII and witnessed the atrocities of the invading Japanese army . Inspired by a true story , this is about the life of Hogg as he takes it upon himself to do whatever he can to save a group of orphans he gets set up and acquainted with . What of Chow ? His Chen Hansheng , a communist fighting against the Japanese , gets relegated to supporting appearances , to give us some brief history lessons on the uneasy alliance between the communists and Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists , as they only link up with each other to fight a common enemy when it conveniences both parties . You would come to think that , from the trailers , this is gonna be quite an action packed movie with Chow leading his group of merry men to do battle against the Japanese , but the movie employs a " fight another day " stance , and the central plot has nothing to do with that too . And pairing up in the same movie after their Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon stint is Michelle Yeoh , only this time , they don't get to share any scene together , and worse , Yeoh's role as a rich merchant Mrs Wang gets severely diminished . No doubt it is clear that the prospects of uniting Chow and Yeoh together would bring in curious crowds who can't wait to savour the opportune moment , but alas they happen to be just the side dishes . Jonathan Rhys Meyers , joined by Radha Mitchell , fresh from her battle with a beastly crocodile , takes on leading man status , as the reporter who finds himself thrusts into Huang Shi , and into the enclave of 60 male orphans , living in filth , and without hope . Strongly encouraged to stay behind and take care of them , he becomes the reluctant and unwilling teacher , but slowly wins over the hearts and trust of the children , and hence begins a fairy tale like environment that seemingly is remotely away from the war in China , except for the enemy planes flying overhead serving as a reminder . However , it's soon that they find themselves between a rock and a hard place , with the Japanese inching closer , and the Nationalists wanting to possess their land for their use , as well as to conscript those boys into warfare . Not wanting that to happen , Hogg packs them all up , and so begins the journey proper as per what the title says . The events that unfold are just plain sailing without any tension involved , nor any excitement built up . It just flat-lines its way through beautiful environments of mountains and plains , coupled with treacherous snows and sandstorms , but otherwise , it seemed that their 1000km trek looked quite peanuts . What's more amusing here though is how the Chinese cast look so much more comfortable speaking English - I thought Chow has improved by leaps and bounds , but Meyers and Mitchell really sounded very off in their Mandarin diction , that you'll find it quite ridiculous that the parties they speak to , can understand them totally . Brownie points have to be given for their courage to speak , and give the language a go , though again it could be playing to character as one cannot master the language in such a short period of time . At the end of the day , this played out more like a simple account of an event that had happened ( of course again with artistic license taken ) , and the documentary-styled interview segments at the end while the end credits play , affirmed what happened and gave us some insights into Hogg's character , much more that what the film had portrayed . While the alternate title might seem to involve the Children quite a bit , only a few were given names and faces , and even fewer given personalities . Similar to movies like Schindler's List and Hotel Rwanda where the ability of one man helped save many , but this one lacked that crucial emotional punch .
A Nutshell Review : One Foot Off the Ground	I didn't really know what to make of One Foot Off the Ground . As it twists and turns in and around its dizzying myriad of characters and the lives , it's easy to get lost , and those without patience would find themselves tempted to walk out of the cinema hall . The payload only gets delivered from the midway mark , as writer-director Chen Daming takes his time to set up each subplot , before developing them richly into satisfying conclusions . The tale opens with an opera troupe performing its last act , because its director had lost their funding in an accident . As such , the troupe temporarily disbands , and we fast forward three months later , to be introduced to individual characters , their current lives and the little episodes that happen to them in order to spice the movie to feature length duration . And very early on , you start to wonder just where these stories are heading toward . You have Ma San ( Li Yixiang ) and his participation in underground cock fights , whose wife is contemplating going to France to set up a Chinese restaurant . There's Sihai ( Jin Hong ) who doctors the dogs he sells to pass them off as another pedigree , and there's Liu Bing ( Yao Lu ) who runs a photo studio and develops the hots for a young model . These are just some of the lead characters , and there are plenty more supporting ones like the old master of the opera training school who's looking for a companion , and a sleazy film scout who calls himself F4 . And for a film without any recognizable big names , it relied heavily on the delivery of the cast to engage the audience with its earnest scenes , some which are comedic , and some others heavy on the drama . But for the most parts , it was the little moments that bring out little joys while sitting through it . There aren't any large scenes or sudden great leap forward plot development , and I was quite tickled with the plot element of a money bag making its rounds and adding confusion and suspicion on the characters that happen to stumble upon it . If I could summarize this movie in a line , then it would be " nothing fancy , but it works " .
A Nutshell Review : Mindhunters	Mindhunters is titled after FBI's trained serial killer profilers , whose job is to get behind the mindset of such killers , and to profile them according to their perceived traits , trying to understand their motivations , and the who what why questions . We start off with a brief introduction to a group of profiler rookies and their instructor ( played by Val Kilmer ) , before joining them in a chill session where they show off their profiling techniques . Before you can say " FBI " , our group is whisked to an island as part of their routine training , where they are to put what they learnt into practice . But things go awry and real deaths occur , and soon the survivors start to realize that there is actually a real serial killer amongst them . The narrative is promising , with stars such as Val Kilmer and Christian Slater helming the show , or that's what I thought . When you bump off your stars early in the film , it serves as some kind of warning , wondering if the other lesser known leads will be able to shoulder the film to the finishing line . The premise has potential , but it degenerates into a normal Renny Harlin action movie with slasher tendencies - dismembered animal parts and creative killing scenes . At times , you thought you're watching Battle Royale , with the island setting , the characters ' suspicion on one another , the explicit gore element , the use of a public announcement system , and so on . Or I thought it was another " The Haunting " , where the audience goes into whodunit mode while character after character gets bumped off , except that the environment is different . Or the killings look strangely like a bad cousin of Saw's sadistic games . Though I must give the film some credit , as I didn't really manage to identify who the serial killer was until the very last minute . On the other hand , I felt that the movie somehow cheated by not explaining enough of the backstory , and then telling us " oh yeah , that was what happened , so that's why I'm doing what I'm doing now " . Mindhunters explores the mind behind the serial killer . Or at least attempts to . In summary , if they had stuck more to the profiling process and techniques ( with some glimpses of CSI on the big screen ) , it could probably sustain and emerge as a more intelligent thriller .
A Nutshell Review : Rent	Five hundred twenty-five thousand six hundred minutes . Five hundred twenty-five thousand moments so dear . Five hundred twenty-five thousand six hundred minutes . How do you measure , measure a year ? In daylights , in sunsets , in midnights in cups of coffee . In inches , in miles in laughter in strife . In five hundred twenty-five thousand six hundred minutes - how do you measure a year in the life ? How about love ? How about love ? How about love ? Measure in love . . . seasons of love . The musical movie reunites most of the original cast in the Broadway production , making it a pretty accurate film version in terms of having the right persons play the roles they've already become familiar with . Telling the life of a struggling group of Bohemians in the East Village of New York City , having the musical immortalized on celluloid enabled the production to reach out to commercial masses at the price of a movie ticket . Dealing primarily with the love and lives of these friends , we cover all grounds with gay , lesbian and heterosexual love , and treading upon themes like drug use and AIDS . You have Jon-Bon-Jovi look / sound-alike rocker Roger Davis ( Adam Pascal ) , with a scarred emotional drug filled ex-relationship getting it on with exotic - dancer - with - current - drug - use - problem Mimi Marquez ( Rosario Dawson ) , aspiring filmmaker Mark Cohen ( Anthony Rapp ) whose ex-girlfriend Maureen Johnson ( Idina Menzel ) left him for her butch lover lawyer Joanne Jefferson ( Tracie Thoms ) , and two gay buddies Tom Collins ( Jesse L Martin ) and Angel ( Wilson Jermaine Heredia ) who meet by chance when Tom was mugged on the streets . They sure ain't no Brady Bunch , with serious adult issues to grapple with , like urm , paying their rent on time ? However it doesn't bore with the issues , and entertains with the many ( at least 20 ) musical numbers . so much so that almost each time a cast member opens his / her mouth , they come out singing . Which for a minute , might seem a bit out of place , but then you forget you're watching a musical on film , a made for a 3-D world put flat on a 2-D screen . It compensates somewhat though by having the camera constantly move to give the illusion of space . Perhaps the themes and character lifestyle didn't appeal to me , so I didn't really dig the storyline , though I didn't really dislike it either . Some plots degenerate into the usual A-meets-B , A-loses-B , A-reconciles-with-B . Notice I didn't use boy-girl , as the same plot gets rehashed for most of the characters , which made it seem like groundhog with different characters . Live Life , Love All , sounds like a Hard Rock Cafe slogan . Sure I enjoyed the music , and the visuals which accompanied the music , but that's about it . By the time the heartwarming ending rolled in , I was too jaded by it all to care too much .
A Nutshell Review : Black Rain	WWII movies are a dime a dozen , and so are many movies which touch on the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 . Japan still remains the only unfortunate victim of an actual bombing incident using atomic / nuclear weapons , and I suppose any movie that touches on this topic out of Japan , deserves a watch for the perspective it brings . Black Rain is no different . Based on the novel by Masuji Ibuse , Black Rain referred to the rain which fell just after the mushroom cloud ballooned , and because of the high radioactivity content in the atmosphere , what fell from the sky was actually contaminated , and was reportedly black in colour . But the film isn't a meteorological exercise , but rather one which is rather rich in its drama on the sufferings of both the direct and indirect victims of the A-bomb , as well as the psychological scars inflicted upon , and endured by surviving soldiers of the war . Putting its fulcrum on lead character Yasuko ( Yoshiko Tanaka ) , who was near Hiroshima enough for the black rain to fall upon her , it tells of the prejudice everyone else has of her . Faced with social discrimination which hinders her ability to get married , and worse , the need to be isolated into a small village of survivors from the A-bomb , it tells of the horrors of war of the worse kind , and that's the aftermath despise one has to suffer through to the end of one's natural life . Though the village she resides in has interesting characters who encourage one another and keep the spirits up , there is always an overhanging ominous feel to the place , as one by one the inhabitants have to face up to the inevitable . It's not always doom and gloom in the movie , as it does provide some avenue for much needed comedy to elevate the depressing mood . But the more powerful scenes were those in the beginning . While not possessing snazzy special effects to recreate the events on the tragic day , its simplicity brought the message and visuals out vividly enough . There is no big bang , but rather a lone bomb parachuting down is adequate to send down chills of the unfortunate and expected . The direct victims as portrayed here were the most realistic ( even when watched today ) of many films that I've seen , and the reminders are to the point and stark . But the flaws in this black and white movie was the degeneration of the narrative into serious melodrama which for the most parts dragged on for just too long . Clocking just over 2 hours , it actually felt a lot more , and I thought if it could have tightened up the pace a bit with the exclusion of some unnecessary scenes involving too many side characters , and should also have kept focus instead on a select few to support the main lead . Black Rain though serves its point , in being an anti-war / nuclear bomb movie , and boy does it actually inflict a test of your patience to finish watching it .
A Nutshell Review : The Book of Revelation	You'd be forgiven if you thought that this movie was nothing more than the final chapter of the biblical text . Although itself based on a novel , this is a far cry from doomsday , though for the lead character , his life has been made a living hell for the sheer psychological and physical torture he goes through even after his unfortunate ordeal . And it does provoke some thought into the issues it put on screen , though it doesn't provide any answers , which I suppose in a real world equivalent , it's likely to remain under wraps too , for the shame . There are many movies out there which deal with and center around the topic of rape . But this would probably mark the first time I've watched a movie where the male lead gets set upon by a gang of three masked females , who for the protection of their identity , prefer to keep their kinky sexual exploits from perhaps each other as well . In fact , their dressing is so well designed , that they have openings for their eyes , and a flap to expose their mouths for the purpose of providing pleasure . And being clothed for the most parts , it prevents the victim from trying to identify any tell-tale signs like tattoos , birthmarks or moles . Tom Long ( no offence , but what a name , really ) plays Daniel , a renowned dance practitioner under the tutelage of Isabel ( Greta Scacchi ) . To Isable , Daniel is her star , and she fiercely guards her protégé , up until he decided to go around a corner and buy a packet of cigarettes for his fiancé , that he gets kidnapped , and the production has to rely on a stand-in . Daniel of course returns , but returns as a changed man . Meek , irritable , and with a feeling that he's lost his skills . He becomes obsessed , and we slowly learn why - he's become a victim of a gang rape by an all female trio , who in their own words , just want to see him perform a dance for them privately , failing which the punishment is . . . rape . To justify its R21 rating , we're given a full blown account for Daniel's inexplicable disappearance from the normal world he's used to , and now find himself chained to a dark basement like an animal , responding to the whims and fancies of his captors as they take turns to deal with him up his rear . And to a hunky , muscular guy , I suppose this would be a breaking down of resistance , as the power play between the captors and the captive turn psychological , and at times blurring the lines whether Daniel is actually enjoying his current situation . Wait a minute , who in the right mind would enjoy being in such a situation ? Here's where the crux of some of the issues are . Can a man be raped ( obviously if against his wishes , yes ) , and what's with the stigma of having such a stain ? Is it hard to imagine the kind of reaction for a guy to make a report and say " Excuse me Mr officer , but I've been raped for days repeatedly by three women wearing masks " ? While we can easily understand and sympathize with female victims , could we say and feel the same for a male one , especially one who potentially has the propensity to fight back ? Hard to fathom of course , which speaks volumes when the screening I'm in had its fair share of walkouts from amongst the full house audience . But in a tale of two halves , the other showcases Daniel's struggle to try and rebuild a normal life , but again , with such a traumatizing event that he experienced , it does turn some screws loose , as he begins to suspect and mistrust , just like female victims would , all women whom he encounters and who in his estimates , fit the bill of his kidnappers , for reasons none other than vengeance . I thought the second half was more engaging than its earlier portion as it boiled down to an individual struggle , and with an ending that spoke volumes for the things left unsaid . Not an easy movie to sit through given its pace and storyline , but you do get plenty of discussion topics when you emerge from the theatre .
A Nutshell Review : The Invasion	It seems like Nicole Kidman's The Invasion is something like a tit-for-tat response to ex Mr Nicole Kidman's War of the Worlds . Aliens from outer space , check . Estranged spouse ( the cinematic one that is ) , check . Cute toddler kid , check . Being the only one who figures what could be going on , check . Lots of running , check . Single parent power , check . Having people clamour on your escape vehicle , check . Cop out Hollywood styled ending mocking the aliens , check . Pointless remake ? Probably not , and that's its leg up against the tripods . The Invasion is an update to the many movies based on Jack Finney's novel The Body Snatchers , and the last movie I can remember about the same was the one starring Garbrielle Anwar ( that beautiful lady who tango-ed with Al Pacino in Scent of a Woman , and together like Chris O'Donnell , has already faded from the limelight ) . At its core the story's about how alien lifeforms start to take control of human beings by being their doppelgangers , and with behaviour like a Stepford Wife , it's definitely not appreciated by those who value their freedom and the ability to choose . The movie did try to elevate itself from the run of the mill thrillers , in putting in not so sublime anti-war-anti-terror messages . In its cinematic world , the war on Iraq is over with the US troop pullout , and the Koreas get unified . That's because the aliens have taken over and taught us truly what world peace is all about . And therein lies the issue - if we're beings who strive for the greater good , why not let the aliens take over , instead of resisting and insisting on continuing our flawed existence ? A human utopia is impossible , given our human nature to suspect , fight , and kill each other . Borg-like assimilation however , we cannot accept . So Nicole Kidman's psychiatrist Carol Bennell and Daniel Craig's doctor Ben Driscoll ( who looks just very Blond here in bland Bond like moments ) seem to be the few who would take a long time being found out to be puny humans , and battle it out with the aliens in a hide and seek cat and mouse game , together with cute kid Jackson Bond as Carol's son Oliver . You cannot sleep , and you cannot show emotion , lest you be pinned down , given a taste of a tazer , turn into a cocoon and wake up a new person . The movie does have its fair share of excitable moments , contrary to what I would have believed from other opinions of the movie , and there are genuine , effective jump at your seat episodes . While Craig is bland , Nicole Kidman is reason enough to watch the movie as firstly , she illuminates the screen with her gorgeous poise , even when she's trying to be robot like , or running around with kid in tow frantically trying to save their souls from zombie-like humans , who thankfully subscribe to the George A Romero model rather than the Danny Boyle one ( though I would have loved to see more energetic aliens takeover than the docile world-peace loving ones here ) . My greatest beef with the show however , is how everything must be ended nicely , bright sunshine and all . Woefully typical , instead of my personal preference for an apocalyptic styled one . Perhaps therein lies the belief that we humans can provide the fix for our flaws , in good time to come , as Carol Bennell so confidently states early in the movie .
A Nutshell Review : Hunting and Gathering	It's Audrey Tautou , and ever since Amelie , I am of the opinion that Singaporeans have an affinity for the pint sized actress , and her box office draw here is fairly strong . Count me in as one of the fans who will lap up her cinematic outings , good or bad , so long as our heroine gets the opportunity to shine on screen . Hunting and Gathering is based on a novel by Anna Gavalda , and tells the story of four individuals whose lives converge in an apartment . In this movie directed by Claude Berri , I thought that it was split into 3 acts , with story arcs focused on the challenges faced by each of the characters . Tautou stars as Camille Fauque , a near anorexic surface engineer who smokes a lot , guzzles alcohol , but eats very little . Living alone in a small attic of an apartment block , she meets Philibert ( Laurent Stocker ) , a fellow neighbour who suffers from bouts of anxiety . Philibert's housemate Franck ( Guillaume Canet ) is a chef who lives hard and fast , whose only worry is the welfare of his grandmother Paulette ( Francoise Bertin ) , a senior citizen who fears being tossed aside by kin , and makes life quite difficult for her caretakers . The narrative is quite plain actually , with every conceivable development being very predictable . That means no quirky twists and turns for the sake of it , and it actually allows you to shift to lower gears to enjoy this outing . It's a story about having dreams , fulfilling them , and helping others to fulfill theirs too , through encouragement and support rendered . Having all four characters together under one roof , though brief it might be , did seem like an episode of Friends gone all French and all whacked with the age grouping , and proving correct the adage that two's a company and three's a crowd . It did try to cover a lot of ground given that there are a number of characters here , but it did so at the expense of depth . The romance entanglements between characters did seem rather superficial , bland , trivial and predictable , while Philibert's quest to stem out his stammering through stage acting unfortunately had to take the backseat , and thus having his character fade away somewhat for the last act of the movie . The most meaningful and beautiful arc here belongs to Francoise Bertin's Paulette , as her tale of fear of abandonment rings through very honestly , and somehow , you'll start to wonder when you're of old age , whether you will have companions whom you can get along with , or be forgotten and tossed to some old folks ' home to spend your twilight years in . I felt that it was superiorly poignant , without which there would be no emotional anchor for this movie . Somehow , movies that feature food and classy restaurants ( Ratatouille , Mostly Martha and No Reservations anyone ? ) of late that I've watched always have fallen into the clichéd ending . I'm unsure if it's an unwritten rule to have it done so , or if it's a formula that has proved to work every time . But in all earnestness , I thought it ended quite nicely with that happily ever after feel . In summary , definitely worth a watch for the eye candy cast , but it plays like a generic romantic / friendship tale that possesses potential that was hardly scratched .
A Nutshell Review : The Invincible Iron Man	The only reason why I picked this up was because it's on cheap sale , and it doesn't hurt to see how Marvel would have envisioned their hero way before the live action feature film starring Robert Downey Jr hit the big screens , right ? The Invincible Iron Man is an origin story , but as far as origins are concerned , they are open to updates and reinterpretation . The original Stan Lee version had Tony Stark develop his suit of armor during the Vietnam War , since this character was developed in the 60s . With the movie version , it got updated to reflect some Middle East sentiments . For this animated version , since they wanted to fuse his origins to that of chief villain The Mandarin , we have it set in the Orient , where Stark Enterprises got itself a project to lift an aged old monument from the buried underground , only to unleash some prophecy which involves the second coming of The Mandarin . There are a couple of changes to how Tony got his heart injured and had to rely on an over-sized pacemaker , but this time he got help from good friend Rhodes , since he's now an employee of Tony , and has nothing to do with the Air Force . I suppose purists would already foam at the mouth by now . Nonetheless you know the drill as plot elements are kept quite consistent - they build a crude suit of armour , and break away from imprisonment . But to speed things up to meet run time requirements , it turns out that Tony Stark already has a whole array of suits back in his penthouse , and can call upon the fancy variations to do battle with the Elementals who are in the quest to recover the Mandarin's power rings to resurrect him . The action sequences do look a bit lacklustre , because the Elementals are basically one-trick ponies , and it doesn't take much effort for our hero to dispatch them one by one . Then again of course this is Tony Stark's first foray as a hero utilizing his suits for good , so he's not all that versed with battling enemies , and magical ones at that too . But in an effort to build up to the climatic finale , there are a couple of missteps . First , it's actually an antique armour that he uses - for one I would like him to have used his most powerful suit available , but no thanks to SHIELD . And if you think the finale battle would be something like the image on the back cover of the DVD sleeve , it's not ! In fact while there's an interesting twist on The Mandarin which you could see coming from a mile away , alas the battle is nothing but a big letdown . There are also a couple of recurring characters to complete the animated universe , such as Tony's dad Howard , where the plot follows that of Batman Begins involving some major boardroom struggle , as well as faithful secretary Pepper Potts , who had a lot more to do here than Gywneth Paltrow's version in the feature film . But they don't add much value to the film here . The pace moves quite hurriedly , and coupled with the disappointing lack of a proper finale , this is one animated flick that could have been much better if it provided some more exciting action sequences , since after all , an animated feature opens up the imagination to unlimited boundaries , just like how a page on a comic book does the same .
A Nutshell Review : Death Defying Acts	What had drawn me to watch Death Defying Acts , is that it's a story with Harry Houdini , arguably the greatest illusionist and escape artist of our time . A few days ago I was browsing through a book which revealed the secrets behind his brand of death defying acts , and really he's a man of science , engineering and most of all , a performer to bring to life the act of fooling an audience into believing his stunts . Sure there's an element of danger , but with proper risk assessment and safeguards , they strip away all the mystique that serves to confound . But contrary to the title , there's nothing really death defying about the movie , as it treaded on safe ground and doesn't dwell any more on the illusions that it has to . In fact , you can count the number of stunts which involve Harry Houdini , and the filmmakers left that for another biographical movie that someone else should pick up on . What we have instead are glimpses into the man's personal life , and Guy Pearce provided quite an intense and charismatic Houdini with personal demons of his own to do battle with , though the story seemed to rein him in from dwelling too much on that aspect , and preferred to have a more romantic tale weaved in . The romanticism of the movie is not with his illusions , but with a single parent who's a psychic of sorts , relying on her street smarts to get her own act going . Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Mary McGarvie , who has to rely on her wits to build credibility for her stage character . Together with daughter and sidekick Benji ( played by Saoirse Ronan of Atonement fame ) , the mother and daughter team tries hard to make a living from their acts , but realize that they're by no means close to Houdini's widespread fame and fortune . However , Houdini himself throws a gauntlet to all psychics far and wide , that whosoever can accurately reveal what his late mother had last said to him , will inherit US$10 , 000 . His purpose it seems is to reveal that the majority of these soothsayers are tricksters in disguise , until of course he meets the luminous Mary , and affairs of the heart throws him off course . Naturally , Mary and Benji find themselves up against the best in the business , but when your back is against the wall , there's nothing much to lose it seems . As mentioned earlier , this movie's more of a character study of the master magician , and explores things like his guilt because of dedication to his craft and performance , as well as his questionable motives in being attracted to the fictional Mary McGarvie . Narrated by the character of Benji , we see things through a child's eyes , and perhaps therein lies the loss of some pathos in the romantic angle of it . On one hand , it isn't your classic romantic story , while on the other , it doesn't seem to want to preach the method , rationale and mindset of Houdini himself . So what emerged is a mixed bag . Beautifully shot , but again falling on the emptiness of its effort in trying to allow the audience to feel for the characters . At least Timothy Spall , who plays Mr Sugarman , Houdini's manager , allowed for some light moments as the guarded and wary person that he is . And credit goes to keeping the ending quite right too .
A Nutshell Review : Mighty Joe Young	Merian C . Cooper came up with the story of King Kong first , about the 40 foot giant ape which was discovered in Skull Island , then brought back to New York to wreck havoc . He too dreamt up the story of a smaller ape - 15 foot , who lives with his human protector , and brought back to the USofA where he wrecks minor havoc against poachers . Joe is a gorilla whose parent died under the hands of poachers . Being the target , he in turn was protected and raised by the Young family , namely Jill Young , who lost her mother too on that same faithful night . 12 years later , Jill ( Charlize Theron ) have to find safe haven for her ape friend Joe , whose day out attacking explorer / researcher Gregg O'Hara ( Bill Paxton ) brought unwanted attention to itself . Jill and Gregg form an uneasy alliance as they transport Joe to a man-made habitat in Los Angeles , and the habitat and Joe come under attack from the same poachers 12 years ago , this time wanting revenge . It's a simpler tale compared to King Kong , but somehow I find the storyline a poor cousin to that of Kong's . It's difficult to live up to classics I suppose , but there are moments enough to elevate the film . Like the action sequences . The first time we see Joe as an adult gorilla taking on the research team in their jeeps was a sequence to behold . You can see the CGI-ed Joe in its full glory as it gallops ( ? ) with incredible speed and using its wit to overcome its aggressors . The scaling of a ferris wheel felt like a weak homage to Kong's scaling of the Empire State Building . Then again , Joe is about the size of Kong , but can it roar as loud too . Or the moments where Joe actually coos like a baby , when Jill teases him / plays games / sings lullabies . Along the lines of Kong , only a beauty can tame the primal beast . Mighty Joe Young is a remake of its 1949 debut , which featured a stop-motion animated Joe . And oh , did I mentioned I watched this also because of Charlize Theron ? ' Nuff said ! Code 3 DVD : bare bones version .
A Nutshell Review : Nanny McPhee	Nanny McPhee , based on the Nurse Matilda books , tells the story of the Brown family . Mr Brown ( Colin Firth ) is a widower who has to single handedly bring up seven children . Make that seven mischievous children who has driven away a record 17 nannies . He needs to work to bring home the bacon , but cannot find a suitable nanny who could stand the children's antics . Until Nanny McPhee ( Emma Thompson ) turns up mysteriously one day ( yes , she did knock ) , and weaves her brand of wit and magic into the Browns . It's a simple fairy tale like story meant for kids , with lessons like listening to the adults , behaving , and love . Adding a tad complexity to the plot would be Mr Brown's desperate search for a wife to remarry , so that the family could continue to receive monetary support from their Aunt Adelaide ( Angela Lansbury , Murder She Wrote , anyone ? ) But the storyline gets predictable halfway into the movie , and unless you're a ten year old , you'll probably figure out the plot from then on . Along similar production styles like recent children-focused tales such as A Series of Unfortunate Events , the production sets are a sight to behold , especially during parts where the CGI , though simple , actually managed to add a touch of grandeur to entire scenes . While Nanny McPhee is the title role , we don't get much of the backstory of this magical nanny , so you'll have to take it at face value on what she's capable of , or read the books . If children's acting ( or lack thereof ) get on your nerves , you'll be surprised at the tots ' performances , even the littlest one . I thought Thomas Sangster , who plays the eldest son Simon , looked a bit like Freddie Highmore . Possible challenger there . The pacing of the movie is kept even , with comedic situations thrown in aplenty to probably make you forget about the average storyline . So if you're in for a movie which is kept really simple , and suitable for a family with small children , then look no further , Nanny McPhee will be the movie of your choice this week .
A Nutshell Review : Mirrors	Looking at the filmography of Alexandre Aja , he's becoming dangerously close to being branded as a director who specializes in remakes of films that can allow him to amplify the original gore factor , and one who hopefully doesn't position himself , intentionally or otherwise , such that audiences would come to expect a twist in every single one of his movies . While I'd enjoy his Haute Tension and his version and update of The Hills Have Eyes , he seemed to have reined himself in with Mirrors , where allowance for violent excesses was minimized and allocated to creating mood and tension , which succeeded as the movie went along , and plodded forward during many moments in the beginning when Kiefer Sutherland's Ben Carson began probing the mystery of his workplace . You can just about sense Aja's glee when it came to scenes that called for gore , and at times succumbed to cheap scares which were rather successful . However , Aja can't decide if this was going to be an all out spiritual spook fest , or a monster movie , and that confusion resulted in an actual schizophrenia , where one ending is insufficient , and you'd need two endings in order to provide for some bang for the buck . It's as if it ran on multiple fronts which could be delinked from one another , and if not for the characters ' relationships , it could well be a series of shorts pasted together with the mirrors being running motifs where spirits reside in , and can determine life or death , with a concept quite refreshing , but again , unoriginal since it's a Hollywood adaptation . While Aja might seem to want to tread back to familiar territory at every opportunity at gore , Keifer Sutherland too can't seem to break too far away from his cop related roles for the big screen , save for lending his voice in Phone Booth , his recent The Sentinel and this one still had his character come from the force . Perhaps it's lazy casting on the filmmakers ' part in getting someone already familiar with the territory so that audiences can immediate latch onto his Jack Bauer persona , and have it plain sailing from there . And no matter how Sutherland tries to provide a new dimension to his mentally pained ex-cop , he just can't shake Bauer off , which became as niggling as the persistent spirits that call out for his attention . And that familiarity didn't just stop with the director and the lead actor , as it extended toward the supporting appearance by Amy Smart , though in a not so surprising role of being here just to shed her clothes . I thought she could be a decent actress without having to resort to such " tricks " , but I guess filmmakers from Crank to Mirrors still haven't got enough of her Road Trip stint . Again , very dangerous ground to tread on for the mentioned - one for gory remakes , one for cop roles , and one a naked flowervase . Granted there were some fine moments courtesy of special effects , with misbehaving mirror images and the way characters get dispatched - slow , painful and plenty of blood - but those looking for occasionally fine scary moments may find them in Mirrors . I've not seen the original 2003 Korean movie Into the Mirror which this movie is based upon , but given the cheeky finale , I just might be interested to check out the Korean version . For now , I'd start to think about those palm prints left behind in mirrors as they will never look the same again .
A Nutshell Review : I'm Not There	I've got to admit that I'm not a Bob Dylan fan , and neither do I know enough of the man and his music . The only reason why I opted to watch I'm Not There , is undeniably because of the stellar cast attached to the project . Especially so when you have Cate Blanchett who got an Academy nomination for her role and I just wanted to fins out why , as well as the first pairing ( well , not quite ) of both Christian Bale and the late Heath Ledger on screen , though they never share the same frame . I only know enough to get by , that the different actors who get assigned to play Dylan related roles , be it through references of song , or characters through movies , make this movie seem quite all over the place , and therein lies the catch - how do you personify a living musical legend on the big screen , one who probably has so many facets to his life , that is near impossible for one actor to portray ? So I guess Todd Haynes built multiple personalities around the Dylan motif , and see how they went . For most of the movie , you can treat it like a short film , each with different actors at the helm of a Dylan-related character , holding court , with couple of recognizable celebrities making cameo appearances , and though what I thought was interesting , was that Bale had 2 segments given to him , one near the beginning where he gets to showcase his singing voice , and the other one right at the end . Again Bale goes through a physical transformation that you'd probably do a double take just to convince yourself that it is him under the guise . Other than that , Heath Ledger's role I thought was the simplest to follow , as it centers on the love life of an actor . Despite these highlights and the other supporting acts , Cate Blanchett really showed who was in command , as her role was really very trippy even for my liking , but made it a whole lot of fun just to watch her in action - you might even wonder what kind of medication she was on to put on a performance like that . I really wasn't quite right there with the movie , so if I were to round up a final statement , it would be that this movie is suited for Bob Dylan fans as you can probably go ballistic with the number of references loaded in this film , or if you're really keen , to do a lot of research by reading up the life of the man , and of course to listen to his music , in order to get something meaningful and rich out of it .
A Nutshell Review : Made of Honor	Made of Honor spells chick flick all over it , the perennial formulaic romantic comedy that tells its entire story in the trailer , but that's not going to stop couples from hitting the cinemas for their date movie flick , does it ? What I thought was peculiar was that the original US rating for this was R , meaning a lot more sexual material thrown in , versus the now released PG-13 version which was re-edited , and over here , the rating of PG that allows for everyone to make a beeline if they want to escape from the week's blockbuster . The plot's nothing new as well , with movies like My Best Friend's Wedding , and even from as far back as Three Men and a Little Lady where the best friend tries his / her very best to convince the bride / groom that their choice for eternal companionship , is of the wrong one , and of course , to make away with their respective selves to live happily ever after . And if you think the premise is a ludicrous one , where a man will take up the duties of a maid of honor , then Singapore perhaps just legitimized it with a wedding in a cinema last Tuesday , where indeed a male did grace the occasion of his best friend's wedding as her MOH . For a man who doesn't seem to have a job and have a huge trust fund behind him , Patrick Dempsey shed his uptight role as a dad from his debut big screen outing with Enchanted , for a playboy called Tom who lives by certain rules in his dating game , and amongst them , no back to back sex with the same girl , no dates with the same girl unless it's a week apart , and never to call someone new in the next 24 hours , never bring them to weddings and family events , and the likes . Women find him irresistible ( either for his looks or for that bank account ) , and he spares no time in getting to know them inside out . The ideal bachelor lifestyle I'd bet , with a constant flow of money , women , and good pals to shoot hoops with , none of them seemingly poor enough to hold down regular jobs . However , he has his best friend and confidante in Hannah ( Michelle Monaghan ) with whom he spends his weekends with , and just when he discovers that he truly loves the girl , she drops the bombshell that she's going to marry a Scot whom she met during her business trip , and talking about whirlwind romances , will be getting married in 14 days . So the clock starts to tick in order for Tom to prove himself to be better than the groom-to-be Colin McMurray ( Kevin McKidd ) , which is an uphill task as riches-for-riches they could be on par , but you just can't inject blue blood into you . While at the same time juggle his role as the maid of honor and going through the many girlie things that they're supposed to do for the bride . While it is a formulaic story , what works , and so long as it does , this type of movies will forever be made , is the chemistry between the leads . You just can't deny that both Dempsey and Monaghan look good together on screen as a couple , and you can't help but find yourself rooting for them past their characters ' stupidity to realize that they're made for each other , after 10 years of being together , with little clues left unanswered with questions such as " why do you like him " going unanswered . If only of course it were that easy in real life , that a romance can be wrapped up with Eureka-like moments of enlightenment within two hours . Of course I must admit though with formula , it doesn't require anything cerebral from you as you sit through and ( try to ) enjoy the story in fantasy land . The eclectic soundtrack helped as well , with contemporary tunes taking centerstage and played at the right moments , from Smash Mouth's opening , to Oasis ' Stop Crying Your Heart Out , when last I heard of it in a movie was in The Butterfly Effect . Supporting characters like Kathleen Quinlan and Sydney Pollack goes wasted of course .
A Nutshell Review : Blood Brothers	Inspired by John Woo's Bullet in the Head , Blood Brothers ventures into the tried and tested boys in the hood gangland story about honour and comradeship , only to find out that there's a little more to girls , gangs and guns . The movie looks great with beautiful sets , costumes , props , but there was a general sense of being emotionally empty beneath the shiny looking veneer . I always thought the cinematic 1930s Shanghai resembled the Capone era of Chicago , with gangland chiefs ruling the streets , and beautiful molls being the damsels in distress , carving a living out of singing in the dance halls , waiting for their anti-hero in that smart suit and fedora hair , totting a tommy and mowing down opponents without batting an eyelid . Blood Brothers transports us back to the era of the Shanghai Bund , with brothers Gang ( Liu Ye ) , Hu ( Tony Yang ) and best friend Feng ( Daniel Wu ) looking toward the big city for an opportunity to carve a name for themselves . Leaving their village to pursue their dream , little do they know that their friendship will be put under severe tests when greed , power and ambition , or the lack thereof , come into play , and challenge the very notion of blood being thicker than water . However , despite big names in the production , what I found to be primarily lacking , is that you don't feel for the brotherhood and camaraderie between Gang , Hu and Feng , which I thought was extremely crucial if we were to care about what will happen to the trio - a reluctant soul yearning for home , a brawn over brains type muscleman whose ambition knows no bounds , and one who turned to the bottle because he can't live up to expectations . Time is indeed set aside in the beginning as a prompter , but it's a case of too little too late , with the narrative being caught up with bringing the audience to the glitz and glamour of the Paradise nightclub . Here , the blood brothers three get involved with yet another power playing trio - Boss Hong ( Sun Honglei ) , his number one enforcer and brother Mark ( Chang Chen ) , and the moll of the movie , the sultry cabaret singer Lulu ( Shu Qi ) , and as the story unfolds and entangle all our casts together into a web of complex relationships , it is when the plot starts to thicken and get slightly interesting , only again to be exposed for its one - dimensional treatment . Which is a pity , given the potential of how things could have been played out . Even the ironic audacity of having the devilish characters storm into Paradise and unleash hell with guns ablazing , in attempts to reach a crescendo , ended up being a tad too bland . Perhaps the same-old treatment given to familiar themes and scenarios bore little fruit , despite a change in setting and a power cast . You just know what will happen , and they happen like clockwork . And it seemed that Blood Brothers was perpetually plagued by the clumsy romantic angles that don't serve much purpose or to contribute any depth to the characters involved . Despite the weak material , the cast did prove to be charismatic enough to hold your attention throughout , which is a good thing . Shu Qi lends her voice and sings in the movie , Chang Chen broods with a degree of suaveness , Daniel was found to be struggling with Mandarin , Sun Honglei was being really menacing , Tony Yang as the naive follower , and Liu Ye's steely gaze and demeanour will make you think twice should you want to cross his character . There were plenty of close up shots of their facial expressions in Blood Brothers , and this pretty left much of the bea utiful sets and costumes being left unseen . What I found wanting though , was the editing and cinematography . It was quite jarring to see the 180 degree rule broken so obviously , and bringing so much attention to itself . For the first time in many years , I was actually slightly disoriented when watching a scene , when it particularly liked to cross the line and back again , and move back and forth when characters are conversing , or that sudden swing of action brings us to the other side of it all . For once , I would have begged for the camera to stay where it should be , and stay still for that matter . I would love to have loved Blood Brothers for its high production values . However , the way the story is developed , and while trying hard to evoke equal emotions as the material it got inspired by , just left a bad aftertaste that it was trying just too damn hard to please .
A Nutshell Review : Deck the Halls	You know the Christmas season is coming when the theatres start to line up its Christmas themed movies . You have comedies like Deck the Halls , one for the romantics in The Holiday , and of course , going back to basics with the retelling of the birth of Jesus Christ in The Nativity Story . The very first Matthew Broderick movie I've watched is Wargames , when I was a kid . And I thought he would have had quite a stellar career with his boyish good looks . Well , it's been almost 20 years , and that dude still retains his baby face , though now given age he's taken on roles of the family guy , and as Steve Finch , he's known as the Christmas guy around town , for his role in the committee for spreading the Christmas cheer . Until of course , his new neighbour , the Halls , move in , and innocently starts a rivalry with Buddy Hall ( Danny DeVito ) , which in certain instances , look as petty as those squabbling neighours in the Joo Chiat area . And family comedies like Deck the Halls are as predictable as they come by , with the setup of the dysfunctional characters . In the Finches , you have the straight laced Steve , the model mom Kelly ( Kristin Davis ) , the depressed son Carter ( Dylan Blue ) and the coming of age daughter Madison ( Alia Shawkat ) . At the other corner , you have the Buddy the father , with a penchant for giving up the things that he does , the ditzy mom Tia ( Kristin Chenoweth , reprising a role so similar to her RV one as yet another blonde yodeling mom ) , and two , totally hot teenage twin daughters in Ashley ( Sabrina Aldridge ) and Emily ( Kelly Aldridge ) , which are unfortunately , flower vase roles . The feud starts when Ashley and Emily suggest to Buddy that their new home cannot be viewed from MyEarth ( a fictional Google Earth clone ) , and to Buddy , one way to do that is to light up his home so that it could be seen from outer space . That's the primary premise , and naturally , by doing that , you disturb the neighbours , the Finches . So begins the one-up-manship between the two guys , egos bursting and all , as they outwit and try to outlast each other , much to the disapproval of their wives and kids . It does make you think though , that in this spirit of giving and forgiving , that these two men are actually doing the direct opposites in upholding their Christmas values . Steve wants his ( boring ) family traditions to continue , and he does so in a very boorish manner , with his frequent complaining , whining , and sabotaging . Buddy on the other hand , steals . It portrays typical hypocritical behaviour that in your laughter , you're forced to think enough about whether you actually fall under the same category in this season of goodwill toward all men and women . The flaws in the movie are obvious , such as the poor editing which dazzled itself during the Winterfest scenes . I suspect that a lot of footage containing various set action pieces were shot , and some discarded for time and quality , while the Who's Your Daddy joke just couldn't not to be included . Given its budget , cheap CG shots also distracted and took the mickey out of the fun factor . Given that it's a Christmas movie , it definitely must have the feel good factor , which accounts for its implausible ending that cannot happen given time constraints , unless of course , you deem it a miracle . It's feel good , though some in the audience were manipulated enough to shed some tears at the end . And what of the message ? It's obviously Love Thy Neighbours , and to relook into man made traditions that seem to stifle rather than make closer the valued family ties . But as goodwill extended to this movie , although it'll never be a classic , will be the impressive light show sequence , as lights are made to dance in tune to the yuletide songs . One wonders who much time , effort and money went to create that show , which is this movie's pièce de résistance . And I appreciate that little clip from Meet Me in St Louis starring Judy Garland - watch that if you can .
A Nutshell Review : Me and You and Everyone We Know	Written and directed by Miranda July , Me You and Everyone We Know is an indie film that has gone on to win several film awards around the world . It finally opens in the theatres here , but it's difficult to see what the fuss is all about . Miranda plays one of the two major leads , Christine , in a community tale with an ensemble cast of minor characters . Her role as a contemporary artist looking for her break and earning a livelihood driving an " Eldercab " , spews too many philosophical lines and basks herself in many contrived situations , and gets herself involved romantically in an unconventional manner with Richard ( John Hawkes ) , a shoe salesperson recently separated from his wife and tried his hand ( pardon the pun ) at self-immolation . The Everyone We Know here refers to the ensemble cast in the movie , ranging from Richard's younger son dabbling innocently in internet romance / online sex , the elder son who got lucky when 2 arguing teenagers wanted to know who gives the better blow job , a little girl preparing her dowry in 20 years time when she marries , her mother whom she seldom sees , to Richard's colleague at work who teases with the 2 teenagers , and the list goes on . Basically it refers to the neighbours they live with , and the very limited degrees which separate them . In my opinion , it's actually quite an ordinary movie about the ordinary lives of ordinary people , but perhaps therein lies its charm . It's not the usual romance filled storyline between Christine and Richard , nor are the relationships between any of the characters the usual clichés that you'd come to expect . Not that it's dry , but it's quite different . However the movie does have its moments , and somehow I enjoyed the stalker like instances when Christine courts Richard , the dowry made up of everyday household items stored in the chest of Hope , and of course the more risqué bits , especially the one where the identity of the online sex chat partner is finally revealed , and you'd get to see the reactions of both parties when they meet up . Pure unadulterated magical moment , if I could say so . And the gag which really cracked me up , was an innocent quip about this " back and forth " smiley : ) ) < > ( ( You got to watch the movie and find out for yourself what it means .
A Nutshell Review : Ginza Cosmetics	The opening shots of this movie firmly puts it in the Ginza district of Tokyo back in 1951 , with its distinct landmark of the Clock Tower , and serves kind of like a documentary snapshot of the district with following the kid Haruo in and around the area , before finally we get to meet his mom Yukiko ( Kinuyo Tanaka ) , a bar hostess struggling to make ends meet . Directed by Mikio Naruse , this movie doesn't have any big moments , and feels like a capture of the relatively mundane life of Yukiko , in her luckless meeting with various men who seem always to disappoint , and her taking care of her only son . These are acute observations that represent that slice of life , and doesn't over-dramatize or wallow in melodrama and the theatrics , which is quite commendable , given the usual tendency for movies of the genre to lapse into . Things happen as a matter of fact , right up until the tense and anxious moments of looking for a runaway kid . Kinuyo Tanaka brings forth a quiet , stoic demeanour in her Yukiko , being unable to change her fate of being a single mother , and she could make you wring your heart as we experience together with Yukiko a potential moment of probably romance with a young man flit away , despite initial reluctance to get acquainted and help out in his stay in Tokyo . I thought it was quite magnanimous of her to do what she did , and felt that it was really sad for one to resign to her fate without any inclination to challenge it with the hope that things might be for the better . If you prefer your movies quiet , with the dignified presence of a star actress at her element , then perhaps Ginza Cosmetics would be a launchpad for anyone interested in following the filmography of director Mikio Naruse , and of his many film collaborations with Kinuyo Tanaka .
A Nutshell Review : The Woodsman	( This is one of the tough reviews I've had - the material is tough , and having seated beside a cute chick in the theatre ain't helping bucketloads ) The Woodsman gets its name from a fairy tale - Little Red Riding Hood , you know , the dude who actually cut the wolf and out came red riding hood , alive and well . The woodsman ( and his axe ) gave red riding hood a chance to live another day . Does society give second chances to criminals , criminals like Walter , convicted of child molest ? Released on supervised parole , Walter tries hard to reintegrate back to society . Police knocks at his door anytime , snarling . Frequent visits to his psychiatrist is a must . Getting a job is based on whatever network he has left , and willing to accept him with the condition that he doesn't screw up . Colleagues belittle him . Relatives shun him , sometimes mock him . And yet Walter tries , hard . He knows it is an illness in the mind he has to conquer . And he sees this sickness manifest itself in a strange man whom he calls " Candy " , who loiters outside the school courtyard outside his home - he understands what " Candy " is up to , setting traps for young boys , with the aim of violating them . He is disgusted , but the reason why he understands what's going on , is because he's such a person himself . " It takes a thief to catch a thief " doesn't ring any truer than this . But not all is gloom , as he hooks up with Vickie , a colleague At his workplace . Vickie is his pillar of strength ( in a way ) , and yes , she too comes along with plenty of emotional baggage ( seems like all the characters in this movie are really screwed one way or another ) The finale is gripping , as we see Walter being tempted by a young girl , who's undergoing some really painful relationships back home . Will Walter falter , or will he find moral courage to resist ? And what will happen to Candy ? And will Walter find what he's looking for with Vickie ? The highlight here is Kevin Bacon , perhaps the most underrated character actor ever in Hollywood . His measured performance made it so believable that hey , you just pity the guy Walter he's playing . This movie is an acquired taste , though I must warn you the movie takes its time to tell its story ( even though it clocks in at about 90 mins ) . And oh , don't get me started on the 6 Degrees of Kevin Bacon !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Lu Cha ( 2003 )	The first movie I watched starring enigmatic Chinese actor Jiang Wen was during a business trip to KL , catching a show at KLCC before my late afternoon flight . In Warriors of Heaven and Earth , he donned a moustache and beard as the charismatic leader Lieutenant Li , in a movie which had great premise but a lousy story to tell . As for Zhao Wei , unless your head was buried in sand , you wouldn't have missed the era in the late 90s where she was bombarding television sets everywhere in her role as Little Sparrow in My Fair Princess Huan Zhu Ge Ge . So I guess putting them together in a movie made it almost irresistible to not want to pick up this DVD . This was actually a precursor to their Warriors movie where they collaborated again , but in this modern setting , based upon a short story " Adiliya by the River " ( what the heck is Adiliya ? ) by Jin Renshun , they star as a pair of wannabe lovers looking into exploring if they could be together . Sweeping aside the age gap , this movie is one heck of a mindgame . It's frustrating at times as nothing actually happens , and the lead characters just sit around and talk about stuff absolutely not related to anything at all . Well , at least not directly related to what's happening on hand , but telling stories - we're sitting through a story with characters telling stories , fictional ones which doesn't really add depth to plot , or characterization . It's pretty strange stuff . And strange are their characters too , with the only realistic moment is the beginning - if you're looking for a stranger in a cafe , and there are two ladies , who would you approach first , the hot one , or the plain looking one ? Chen Mingliang ( Jiang Wen ) went for the jugular , but it was actually Wu Fang ( Zhao Wei ) who was his blind date . They don't start off well , and continued to bicker . One's become obsessive with her conservatism , while the latter is a serial blind-dater . But there is more than meets the eye to Wu Fang , and herein lies the guesswork to decipher who she actually was , and the motivations behind what she is doing . You can boil it down to PMS , or to the wall being built around her heart , or to just plain old psychosis . Whatever the case is , it's about persistence and the relentless pursuit of who you like , and on the other side , to spice things up with playing coy , hard to get , and being more of a mysterious enigma . Nothing much to take away in less than 90 minutes , except to admire the two lead's ability to act and play off each other , and Christopher Doyle's cinematography ( he makes tea leaves in hot water so sexy ) , which is a bit of a waste in a movie lacking in strength of story . I hate to say this , but the repetitive score is a bit irritating . Code 9 DVD contains zero extras . The sound was quite bad , with plenty of echo , like speaking in a vast enclosed space . The transfer was bearably decent , but the subtitles seemed to look as if it has its bottom thinly shaved off .
A Nutshell Review : Lemming	The lemming has this reputation as a mindless creature which commits suicide by jumping off cliffs , and this has developed its connotation to various popular culture , and I do recall a computer game called Lemmings which features exactly that . This movie , which opened the 2005 Cannes Film Festival , has a plot point related to this Lemming reference , but I shan't go into the details for obvious reasons . Directed by Dominik Moll , Lemming tells the story of the young Getty couple Alain ( Laurent Lucas ) and Benedicte ( Charlotte Gainsbourg ) who seem to be living the model life - a relatively successful husband , a beautiful wife , a large house in trendy suburbia . What more could they ask for ? Things start to go all wrong when Alain's boss and wife , Richard and Alice Pollock ( played by Andre Dussollier and Charlotte Rampling ) , arrive one night late for a scheduled get together dinner , during which Alice's behaviour as a guest was utterly deplorable and downright rude . They end the night on quite a sour note , with Richard's philandering ways made public , and thus set in motion a series of unexplainable sequence of events that plague the Getty couple . For moments this film couldn't decide how it wanted to play out , and this will leave you engaged throughout its painfully slow revelation . Yes you'll feel the length of the slowness in pace , but strangely would be forgiving and willingly allow to be hooked . From hints of a psychological thriller , to supernatural horror , or can even be boiled down to a demented imaginative mind , you will inadvertently try and decipher the plot , as well as attempt to classified its genre , which the filmmakers ensured that you possibly cannot , until the very last few scenes . So perhaps it's best to mention something which the movie proposed , a thought about why a married man will choose to refuse getting entangled into an affair . Is it purely because of the love for the spouse , or simply because the chances of being caught one day is high , and not worth the risk ? Each of us has an internal moral compass , which guides us on the general dos and don'ts , rights and wrongs . However , if there is a strong belief that you could do something incorrect , and get away with it , would you go ahead and do it ? It makes for intriguing discussion . The soundtrack was creepy though , with that lone piano plonking away in eliciting the necessary mood from the audience . And it does so quite perfectly as it raises your heartbeats , and while you're waiting for the final crescendo , it just holds it right there , and continued to hold that note till . . . well , nothing ! And I'd probably still recommend this movie if you're looking for different fare amongst offerings of the week , though you'd have to agree to be led from start to end . The revelation might make you wonder why the trouble to go through all the fuss , and given its simplicity in playing it out the way it had chosen to , it would give that unfulfilled feeling , that it could have lived up to its initial potential .
A Nutshell Review : The Covenant	Don't think too much when watching this movie . That's my advice , but it worked as an excellent therapy right after surviving the horrendous local film Return to Pontianak . The Covenant is guilty pleasure , of watching something full of effects , zero storyline to think about , great looking cast and the usual fast cars and quick action . Alpha males will have another reason to rejoice , given the leading characters come from the so-called elite of the community , nicknamed " The Sons of Ipswich " for their founding fathers ' efforts in building the town they live in . All of them are your usual good looking hunky frat boys , with fast cars , and cute chicks in tow . However , our gang of four harbour a deep secret , that each of them have supernatural powers that they can use for whatever they want , and how they want . The only catch is that with each use of their powers , they will physically age . So , do you wanna trade good looks , for absolute power ? But of course , the Book of Damnation ( gee ) instills certain rules , and introduces the audience to hokey witchcraft and imagined mysticism . Naturally no one's interested in that stuff , except to watch with glee how our frat boys will ( ab ) use their powers . It's addictive , you know , having such abilities , and given the mysticism added in , it's no longer the drugs , nor the sex , nor the rock and roll that get these boys going , but the addiction of being omni - potent in place of power , wealth and fame . The leader of the pack , as per all juvenile stories , is the most powerful of the lot , and preaches time and time again on the virtues of restraint . Until one day the team faces an unexplainable disturbance in The Force ( oops , wrong movie , but you get the drift ) , and have to discover just exactly what the disturbance is . No honours will go towards acting abilities , and I feel those in the audience with strong sense of feminism will go up in arms about how the lead female character is portrayed . You know , the one who will go weak in the knees for the hottest looking guy and literally and blatantly flings herself at him . The guys too fare no better , always trying to ooze machismo and drip testosterone at every opportunity , and enjoy replicating Underworld-styled leaping off rooftops . For a movie like this , there are no efforts spared in jazzing up the special effects . While on the whole it's all good , there are portions of it which made scenes look like extended screen versions of the video game Street Fighter , and taking a leaf too from Asia's StormRiders ( Feng Yun ) in creating battle scenes . You know it's time for formula , when fights are choreographed according to an alternative rock soundtrack . While the action is good , the pacing of the movie could be improved loads . It couldn't decide whether it wanted to be mysterious , horrific , reliant on action or wanting to take its romantic bits seriously . It seemed that director Renny Harlin had a lot of ideas for the feel of the movie , but couldn't decide which to put focus on , and in the end , threw everything into the pot for a mix . It's like an all boys " The Craft " , also set in school , except that their powers are inherited , and the story examines what's it like to use power with a price . If you need something to immerse yourself to forget about a hard day's work , then The Covenant probably is your choice . Oh , and this is one movie in which the trailer tells the whole damn story .
A Nutshell Review : Nights at the Rodanthe	After spending the night at Rodanthe , I would rather revisit the Lake House or Il Mare , whichever version that floats your boat . But this is no time travel romance , but features a beach house that's architecturally pretty , a perfect setting for the lovebirds to roost in , in spite of a looming hurricane threatening to uproot their idyllic property . This is a movie where its lead characters are given second chances with their romantic love life , as we observe how they make the best use of their limited one weekend with each other , finding some fascination in their discovery of the other party , before falling head over heels into the arms of the other . While the story might not be something to shout about , I thought the pairing of Diane Lane and Richard Gere worked wonders because of their chemistry , thus giving this movie an added gravitas , versus having some other unknown bear the weight of a generic story on their shoulders . The narrative also made some time for the characters to deal with their respective demons , and responsibility in the minding of their children . For starters , Gere's Doctor Paul Flanner has to reach out and find out how to reconnect with his estranged son Mark ( James Franco ) , while Lane's Adrienne has to convince her kids Amanda ( Mae Whitman ) and Danny ( Charlie Tahan ) that her not getting back together with their father is something that while personal , had undergone much thought with their well-being always on her mind . Such common ground in their attempts to foster a betteer relationship and bonding with their children , draws both Paul and Adrienne together . I was wondering whether Richard Gere still had that magnetism to attract the teenage female crowd , judging from the numbers that turn out in droves to watch this , or the fact that romantic movies are targeting this demographics altogether . Then I realize , from the squeals of delight , that they'll probably go Richard-who , since the object of their affection was James Franco instead . With whatever little screen time he enjoyed here , you can detect audible fawning overs in sense-surround sound . As with all romances , there are certain rules to abide by in attempts to conform and immortalize characters . It's no different here that there was the inevitable , but what I felt would have made the movie a little more powerful , was Paul's attempt to address the minute possibility for a surgeon that an operation might go wrong . While it was used as a platform for Paul to rethink his approach to life , it certainly could have been a lot better handled rather than being glossed over casually with a sweeping under the carpet approach . Those who need your daily dose of romantic movies or typically safe date movies would find that Nights at Rodanthe would appeal as your choice at the movies this week . Despite the clichés used , you have two veterans who could turn it around into relative strength , and pull what would be a bad movie , into something more palatally average .
A Nutshell Review : RV	If I were to tell you I grew up watching Robin Williams do his " nanoo nanoo " on television's Mork and Mindy , then yes , you'll know how ancient I am . The last movie I've seen with Williams in it ( ok , just his voice ) , was the animated feature Robots . His is a career with pretty defining movies , like Dead Poets Society and Awakenings , to darker fare like recent movies Insomnia and One Hour Photo , vastly different from his comedic roles like in Mrs Doubtfire and Cadillac Man . So it's almost a must for me to watch RV , despite its almost silly premise for a family comedy . It's Robin Williams , and he could lift almost any mediocre movie , in my opinion , and depending on the genre , either swing it to comedy with his perfecto impersonations and ad - libbing , or flaunt his acting chops in more serious roles . However , in RV , you could see him slow down as the movie misses the mark at certain points , unsure of what it wants to be . Certain scenes were dragged out for too long , and could have been shortened instead . But it doesn't mean that it's a bad film altogether . Telling the story of the dysfunctional Munro family who communicates via instant messaging , Robin Williams plays the head of the household , who on one hand has to try and keep his promise of bringing his entire family for some serious bonding sessions over a Hawaii holiday , but on the other , have to keep to his work commitments in order to save his rear and from being retrenched in the face of young upstarts eyeing his job . Talk about work life balance ! So he devises a plan to do both , by hiring a Recreational Vehicle ( hence RV ) , a truck like vehicle with all the modern trappings like television , sofas , bedroom , etc . The only glitch is that the Munro family is besieged by infighting , and are quite the anti-social family to begin with . Having to live out in the rough , and in camp like communities , spell a totally different ballgame for them altogether . That is until they meet the Gronickes ( played by Jeff Daniels and Kristin Chenoweth ) , a family of five seemingly strange people with prozac-enhanced attitudes toward life . The movie picks up whenever the Gronickes come into the picture , and they play it for laughs as the all American , all innocent , all singing family , kinda like the Brady Bunch . But the Gronickes are more than meets the eye , as we slowly find out , as RV splutters towards the finale in many clichéd moments until an all's well that ends well close . But it did offer an interesting attempt in contrasting between that of a salaried man , and one who is financially free . And to break down stereotypes and perceptions of classifying fellow men based on their behavior and appearance .
A Nutshell Review : Cutting Edge	The reason why I chose to watch Cutting Edge during the German Festival was simple , and that's to savour comedy from a different country , and I thought having one in a hospital setting will be perfect for an evening of laughs . Hospitals are always thought as serious places where the sick find some avenue for recovery under expert medical care , but surely it'll run riot when the doctors and nurses are a madcap lot ? But Cutting Edge is not your usual slapstick , physical comedy that provides laugh a minute scenes . In fact , the first minute will have dispelled any notion of the direction the movie will take , and that's the usual " I think I left something inside the patient " joke getting over and done with . It relied much more on wit , chemistry between characters , and had a lot more brewing in the background providing the laughs because of cruel irony . So what we have instead is a slew of comedy of errors , some which hit the mark , while others happen to fall flat because what we expected were delivered to a T . The story centres on the rivalry between two neighbouring hospitals , the casually run Oakwood , and the state-of-the-art , professional outfit St George . Budget cuts mean that one of the hospitals has got to close down , and it is up to the two hospitals to show their best side to health inspectors who are there to audit their processes . Oakwood's top doctors Steffen Wesemann and Klaus Kunze ( Carsten Strauch and Rainer Ewerrien respectively , who co-wrote the story , with the former taking up directorial duties as well ) provide much of the comedy here as the lead characters who are tasked to brainstorm for innovative ideas to save their careers , only to discover that they're spending more time instead trying to salvage an accidental side-splitting incident involving a transplanted liver . Throw in shady undertable deals brewing within St George , and the unethical practice of having an ex-flame Dr Christiane Tietz ( Nina Kronjäger ) trying to extract sensitive confidential information , you'll know our duo will have their hands full . And in such pairings , you just can't avoid the usual gay jokes abound which played out to the best of laughs amongst the audience , and madcap business process experts with suspect credentials all added to the brew . Cutting Edge has an air of predictability , and could have gone even crazier with its antics . But alas the comedy ends once the end credits blooper reel finishes , and nothing funny lingers after that when you try hard to reminisce just what make you laugh until tears started to flow . One or two genuinely funny scenes , while the rest are the usual textbook regurgitated comedic scenes .
A Nutshell Review : Half Nelson	Perhaps the curiosity towards Half Nelson , is how Ryan Gosling got nominated for an Oscar for Best Actor , from seemingly out of nowhere . Probably better remembered for his short lived television series Young Hercules , and recently in the straight to DVD movie Stay , he puts up a rather stoned performance ( ok , so his character is a junkie ) that seemed to want to tug your heartstrings in his weary , isolated outlook of life , yet leaving you feeling rather nonchalant given his substance abuse . To his students , Dan Dunne ( Ryan Gosling ) is the teacher full of unorthodox ideas , challenging authority and doing things his way . His subject expertise is history , and instead of going the rote way in regurgitating curriculum , he opts for the understanding of rationale behind events , making his classes interactive and interesting . Being a teacher , whether you like it or not , you're a role model , and therefore , a moral compass to your impressionable charges . I have a friend whose other friends are teachers , and he sometimes account their behaviour outside of class , which we are of the opinion that if any parent were to know of their shenanigans , they would immediate withdraw their children from classes . Dan is such an example - a substance abuser , developing a crutch toward vices to sooth his pain of the real world , where he increasingly feels disconnected from . Chancing upon his activity one day in a toilet , is his student Drey ( Shareeka Epps ) , who decides to keep mum about it . And thus , the two of them start to form this unconventional , radical bond between themselves , a friendship which raises eyebrows from certain quarters as well . With this bond , Dan experiences certain moral responsibility developed , and takes it upon himself to not let Drey succumb to any negative influences . On the other hand , Drey looks up to Dan like a surrogate big brother , given that she's atypical of a latch key child . The movie adopted rather different approaches , and diverts from the cliché tried and tested story lines like how dangerous substance abuse is , and basically sheds off a lot of fat by keeping its focus on the two leads . The story coasts along rather slowly , and at times , rather aimlessly . I thought the connection with the theme of discrimination and the dwelling on dialectics and the winds of change , rather weak , though some have lauded it , and I don't see what's the big deal about it . What was awesome though , was one scene where you could feel the pain the characters go through , as one felt helpless and rather shameful to have been exposed in the manner prescribed , and the other , surprised yet unable to do anything else about it , unable to change , and the feeling of guilt akin to delivering poison for a friend's consumption , with another subtle level of letting a mentor down . Peppered with intentionally bad jokes and a reasonable soundtrack , Half Nelson is reasonably engaging , but definitely not great . Don't hold your breaths for Gosling winning the Oscar as well , Forest Whitaker is probably on the final home stretch for The Last King of Scotland .
A Nutshell Review : Harmful Insect	I wonder what the English title of Harmful Insect alluded to , as I usually associate critters that do no good as pests , deserving of the right sole of boot , or that slap of a rolled up newspaper . Unless of course it referred to a couple of characters in the movie big or small , with the latter made up of lecherous men who can't wait to proposition the helpless school girl at every step of the way . Perhaps it made reference to somewhat frail creatures , who with the right tools and misguidance , able to do a lot of harm that for the particular crazed moment , they cannot comprehend the severity of their deeds . Directed by Akihiro Shiota , Harmful Insect tells the story of a young schoolgirl Sachiko Kita ( Aoi Miyazaki ) , whose father has mortally left her , and her suicidal mother compounding the problems that come with a broken home by her extreme mood swings , and hooking up with a boyfriend whom we know spells trouble from day one . We see that she skips school , and spends her days wandering the streets with a new found friend in a teenage delinquent , and Mr Kyuzo ( Koji Ichikawa ) a vagrant who is none too bright . Possibly her first real friends with whom she is able to connect , we see her happier days in a lingering , unspoken suggestion of romance , as well as a semblance of a dysfunctional family of sorts to belong to . They hang out , have fun , and even come up with dangerous though innovative ways to survive and " make a living " . Her tale can be broken into 3 acts , with the first being as described , dealing with her alienation from her proper place in society , in the school courtyard , and the second dwelling on attempts at trying to bring her back to where she belonged , thanks to the relentless efforts of her non-judgemental neighbour Natsuko ( Yu Aoi ) , who turns out to be a pillar of strength for the girl , and her appointed guardian angel . I thought Natsuko as a character was a somewhat strong contrast to Sachiko , which you can tell from the very brief moments they interact , and even the kind of happier home that Natsuko comes from , in a scene so short , but tells a lot . And what more the act of self-sacrifice in giving up someone she loves ( ok , so it might be puppy and even though debatable , you get the point ) just to ensure that her friend finds some balance in her life , and to having someone else look out for her too . But Sachiko's Miss Unpopular stigma gets stronger from an attempted act of violence , which leads us to the third and final act , with her flight from trauma . By now , events that develop on screen would already become quite episodic , as the story reads like a book , and plot threads open and close like a turning of a page . All these while we peer at letters written to a certain Mr Ogata ( Seiichi Tanabe ) , which reads like diary entries explaining the inner thoughts of Sachiko , though I have to admit that at times they do seem abstract enough , and out of place . While generally a quiet , slow moving movie , the sound design here alternates between tranquility , and really hard hitting loud noises ranging from falling marbles , banging on doors , the dragging of chairs in class , to the random jets flying overhead . Likely in echo of the character's state of mind , these loud noises do jolt you up from its peacefulness , knowing that there's always something negative brewing on the horizon . But while you think that the narrative's quite sedate , the payload actually gets delivered at the end , as you're likely to start to realize that you've been brought along for an exasperating journey all this while . By the time the last 5 minutes play out and the end credits roll , you can't help but to feel a sense of pity , and anger even , at her giving up of hope , and falling into a web of deceit that she'll probably never be able to crawl out from . Then again , I'm second guessing that it's because of my negative nature adopted when viewing the story from tinted lenses made so by earlier unfortunate episodes of Sachiko's encounters with the wrong type of men , of being the kind of helpless schoolgirl jail bait that gets dangled in front of desperadoes . For all I know , she might be offered a job at a departmental store , or a fast food outlet . But who am I to kid ? Harmful Insect isn't that easy to sit through given its rather bleak nature , although its run time seemed to be a breezy less than 90 minute movie , which was anything but . You can feel its length as it keeps you guessing at some parts before providing you clear answers . But it will make you think in depth of the character of Sachiko and her possible aftermath , way after the end credits roll .
A Nutshell Review : MirrorMask	Neil Gaiman was in town last July , and MirrorMask was one of the yet-to-be-released film projects that he had scribed . It was supposed to be scheduled for release here late last year , but somehow the plans got shelved . Good news though , it will make its theatrical release in the local GV theatres next week . It's pretty abstract at times , and I admit there were portions which I completely zoned out . Directed by illustrator Dave McKean , you'd come to expect the stunning visuals which MirrorMask offered , right from the opening credit sequence in 3D . MirrorMask tells the story of protagonist Helena , a young girl belonging to a family of circus performers . She often dreams of life outside performances , that of what she deems as " real life " , as opposed to her own fantasy world of make believe inside the Big Top . Blaming herself for her mother's ill health after a heated argument , she begins to dream and fantasize herself in being in a world ruled by two queens , a world filled with strange and bizarre beings , where everyone is masked . In parallel to her life , the white queen is also ill , and she's tasked with the quest of finding the fabled MirrorMask to save her . Think of it as sort of a darker , Gaiman-ish take to Alice in Wonderland , with plot devices and scenarios which leap from wild imagination , accompanied by beautiful surreal environments . MirrorMask suffered from a pretty draggy beginning , and it took a while before the plot began to pick up , with Helena's quest and wondering if what was happening was truly real , of really nothing more than just a dream , which of course offered ample avenue to flex those creative juices . It's filled with special effects that boggles the mind , and offbeat characters made so beautifully by Jim Henson's Creature Shop . However , this movie is strictly for fans of Neil Gaiman only , as those not accustomed to his style of story telling , might be overwhelmed by the visuals and get lost in the plot . But for those who persevere , if you strip away the eye candy fluff , at its core , it's a fairly simple , straight-forward storyline of an adult fantasy .
A Nutshell Review : A Class To Remember IV : Fifteen	I'm not too sure why Gakko III wasn't selected for the festival . It could be that it was too much of the same with its teacher-student-school trinity . Or probably the subject matter wasn't diverse enough for it to be differentiated for an audience already seen the first two , and still being fresh in the minds . And Gakko IV - Fifteen , is very much different from the first two Gakko movies , in that it is not set within the confines of a school compound . Rather , this movie has legs , given that it's a road movie , and has its protagonist , 15 ( obviously ) year old Daisuke ( Yuta Kanai ) running away from home to go on the road , in search of a 7000 year old Cedar tree in Yakushima island . Road trips stick to a formula , that you will encounter strange , quirky people along the way ( that's what makes it interesting ) , and somehow have your lives touching each other's because Fate would only have it that way . You have the usual unfriendly bunch , and portrayals of those whom you will also like to meet up with , should you embark on a road trip yourself . Thumbing and hitchhiking his way , with little money and possession , Daisuke totally hates school , and this is something that any teenager could identify with . But don't forget , Life , or living Life , is probably the best school there is . Throughout his journey , Daisuke meets up with people whom he will affect ( for the better ) , and vice versa . The most memorable , and probably having the longest screen time devoted , will be his meeting with a woman trucker ( Rei Asami ) , who , out of pity and curiosity , brings Daisuke home to provide him with temporal shelter and food . How Daisuke affected her family , with his bonding and bringing out the reclusive son , somehow worked wonders and cemented the theme of friendship in this story . At the end of the day , personal relationships get healed , and one of the most touching moments was the expected run in with his family , especially his dad , at the end of the unannounced journey . That scene alone , with its relatively quiet moments , with subtle gestures , and almost muted feelings of regret , is very powerful indeed . That scene alone , is a worthy finale , and worthwhile in investing time to watching this .
A Nutshell Review : Hotel For Dogs	Being Man's best friend , I understand the slew of movies that are made these days in honour of our canine friends , from the chihuahuas in Beverly Hills Hollywood or the Labradors in Miami , to the Roadside Romeo in Bollywood , I guess you just can't put a good dog down , as they continue to endear even through the most cliché of stories . For dog lovers , the appeal here is the whole range of dogs being put on screen , coming in all shapes , sizes and attitudes , trained of course to execute those stunts meant to show their intelligence beyond the heels , stays and roll overs . The other draw of course is how makeshift technology in the form of contraptions made using almost everyday objects , can be used to keep the dogs occupied and entertained . Unfortunately , almost every mechanical device has been shown in the trailer , leaving nothing new nor surprising , talk about letting all the cat out of the bag . Wait , make that almost every plot device shown that you can sleepwalk through the film and still know what it's all about . Andi ( Emma Roberts the Wild Child ) and Bruce ( Jake T . Austin ) are two orphans who have in the last few years gone from foster family to foster family , because they happen to be two misunderstood kids who find it almost impossible to live with their new foster parents whoever they are , especially if they come in the form of would-be performers completed with lack of intelligence and inflated egos like the Scudders ( Lisa Kudrow and Kevin Dillon hamming it up in full camp regalia ) . They find it increasingly impossible to keep the fact that they are keeping their pet dog Friday ( a terrier similar to Milo in the Mask ) from the Scudders , and in one night time escapade , find themselves with Friday and a couple of strays hiding in an abandoned hotel from the authorities . So begins their very slow starting mission of saving abandoned dogs from around their city , with the help of pet shop employees Dave ( Johnny Simmons ) and Heather ( Kyla Pratt ) and a friendly neighbour Mark ( Troy Gentile from Drillbit Taylor ) , who is mostly underutilized and in it like a sideshow extra . And with any typical dog movie , the enemies are always the folks who operate the dog pound , who according to stereotype just cannot wait to imprison dogs and then put them to sleep when their lease expires under their charge . To add certain gravitas here , there's Don Cheadle whose Bernie the social worker works at having Andi and Bruce find proper homes , and to serve as that Deux Ex Machina mouthpiece toward the end , exposing director Thor Freudenthal's weakness in wrapping this up naturally . And there were a couple of moments which I thought could have been brilliantly explored and not left at just a fleeting and passing remark , where Andi realizes that their inexplicable assistance rendered to stray dogs , happens to be a mirror reflection of their own predicament in being passed from place to place , longing for a perfect , functional home that they could never have , and as such relying on her brother's technical wizardry to make it all complete and worthwhile for the dogs under their charge . Like adoption , very rarely do people want to take on anything but a puppy , if not for its cute factor , but for the reason that they can be nurtured , versus the adage that you cannot teach an old dog new tricks . Hotel for Dogs , being a Nickelodeon movie , has to subscribe to the same old feel good and feel safe formula to make it suitable for all families . In that you can't find anything that will rebel against the established order of the genre , so much so that you're inclined to go along with the formula as dictated . Like a good pet dog .
A Nutshell Review : Dead Run ( Shisso )	Essentially the movie tells of the story of the central character , Shuji ( Yuga Tegoshi ) , and his ultimate downfall from grace . However , with the way the narrative is set up , you'll most likely be bewildered as to how the movie is going to develop and which direction it's going to take . It's quite messy with its many ideas thrown in at multiple points , each may or may not providing the resolution you're seeking . In fact , it has so many ideas ( since it's adapted from a novel ) , that it's almost like watching an incident laden life of a young boy growing up into a teenager , examining and observing his interactions with unexpected members of society , ranging from small town gangsters , to big town Yakuzas , from gangster molls to his own female peer in Eri ( Hanae Kan ) , who shares the same passion for running as Shuji does . There are quite a number of characters introduced to facilitate this , and more often than not , you only get to know of their background in a rather slow revelation . The movie takes its time to develop the characters and their backgrounds - so don't be expecting the conventional approach . It's a pity though , that some characters become throwaway ones , even after significant screen time had been dedicated featuring them . Of importance is the character of a priest , Father Yuichi ( Etsushi Toyokawa ) , which had a rather rich background story developed and set up as the " Boo Radley " of the movie . Given the screen time devoted , I was rather puzzled when it turned out that he too became a disappearing act in the middle portion , before returning for a bit part in the finale . Like most of the other movies shown during the festival , this one also had a segment of its setting in a classroom , and has its fair share of featuring children in lead roles , albeit up to the one-third mark where the more adult actors took over . And lead actor Yuga Tegoshi did an excellent job in his Shuji - a confused boy , utterly moulded by the environment around him , his loneliness stemmed from a disappearing family , and his quest to seek companionship bringing him to Osaka and Tokyo . What finally redeemed the movie was its last third , where it got its act back together , and realized its direction towards its final push to end the movie . It's a full circle tale after all , with a message never to judge a book by its cover , or to judge a character based on hearsay . And what finally hit you , assisting you in sitting through the convoluted storyline , is the excellent piano musical score done by SENS . p . s . at one point in time the projection seemed to have tilted downwards , cutting off the bottom half where the subtitles are . Thankfully there was just one ( inconsequential ) line of dialogue uttered , and was fixed before anything major happened in the story . p . p . s . I thought at one point it had a scene somewhat similar to Sepet , with the handphone bit !
A Nutshell Review : Midnight Eagle	The opening film of last year's Tokyo International Film Festival , the reviews for Midnight Eagle has so far been less than stellar , and I was curious to find out why . I mean , a disaster - like movie with elements that threaten in epic proportions couldn't be all that bad , what with a nuclear bomb atop a snowy mountain , with the risk of a nuclear fallout causing death and environmental damage through all of East Asia , and a race against time to prevent it from happening , relying on the heavy shoulders of a few , seem like a stroll in the park right ? The Japanese are in familiar territory , given the experience learnt from the old days when Gozilla stomped Tokyo , right up to the recent Sinking of Japan remake , you'd come to think by now they can fuse the best practices from such movies , and put together something with enough thrills and spills to excite the action seeking audience . Wrong . In fact , nothing much really happens here , and I have to admit that Izuru Narushima is no Michael Bay , who can really pump the adrenaline in folks with just a clock on countdown . Here , although there's a need to wrap things up in 48 hours , everything proceeds with a severe lack of urgency . Which really puts the damper for it to be a " race against time " thriller . In trying to tell a story in as large a scale as possible , it incorporated three fronts before converging them all in the finale ( Transformers , anyone ? ) , but does so in a very slow manner . You have the political front , led by Prime Minister Watarase ( Tatsuya Fuji ) who on one hand declines to reveal the incident to the public lest a panic occurs and he loses his job , and on the other pandering to the US request of maintaining confidentiality , because they had actually flown nuclear bomb carrying stealth bombers over the skies of Japan . Yes the USofA again conveniently becomes the blame victim just had how it was in Korea's The Host , which one wonders whether their allies are becoming tired of their military antics . Then there's the " action " front with war photo-journalist Yuji Nishizaki ( Takao Osawa ) , who on his frequent journeys to the Northern Alps , photographs the incident , and on the cajoling of his friend Shinichiro Ochiai ( Hiroshi Tamaki ) , they decide to scale the mountain to investigate up close , only to have " agents " ( North Korean spies actually , in lieu of the more politically correct subtitles ) also on the same mission , but to finish off what was started . The duo need firepower to handle the adversary , and that comes from the Defense Forces ' Major Akihiro Saeki ( A-Saku Yoshida ) . Lastly , Nishizaki's sister in law , whom he isn't on good terms with , given the sexual tension between them ( or so I read their body language ) , handling some events on the domestic front with some injured North Korean and his girlfriend , who holds the key to end the danger . In some ways , it resembles Robert Redford's Lions for Lambs , which also has a battlefront created on the high mountains , while pencil pushing decision makers survey the action from the comfort of their warm , sparse bunker operations room . Since it's a drama more so than an action movie , a lot of extras are just sitting in the background , trying not to sleep while the actors emote , and looking prim and proper in their starched uniforms decorated with countless of medals . The Japanese seem to be unable to get rid of showing off technical superiority with long distance communications over huge television monitors that give unprecedented clarity in both video and audio , of course with plenty of loopholes abound too . While there's a lack of urgency , the enemies are faceless too , with inanimate objects like " the bomb " and plenty of snow-camouflaged , masked soldiers armed with automatic machine guns and RPGs , so they don't really present themselves as menacing or life-threatening , just as another generic goon that gets dispatched easily . Midnight Eagle could have been a taut action thriller , but what we got was plenty of unnecessary drama that bloated the plot .
A Nutshell Review : Trust the Man	When I saw the trailer for this film earlier this year , I placed it under my radar to watch if it makes its way here . I would like to have loved this film , but try as I may , I just couldn't . Not that it's a bad film , but it had too much cramped into it , with subplots flying off in various directions , and the flow just feels too bloated . It's been some time since we last saw David Duchovny on screen . I'm a fan of his Fox Mulder , but after the series ended , it seemed that he has difficulty securing regular appearances in movies these days . He doesn't seem to age , and his latest outing in this movie is testament to that , save for that bearded look toward the end . His character , Tom , is interesting enough as the sex addict ( yeah , you read that right ) , who just can't get enough of the hot and heavy from his wife Rebecca , played by Julianne Moore . For this couple , we look at their marital woes , or woes that exist but always swept and kept under the carpet . It doesn't help when husband and wife reverses roles , with him becoming a house husband with plenty of time in his hands , and she spending long hours away with her theatre rehearsals . And when an attractive divorcée comes into the picture , all hell breaks loose of course . Written and directed by director Bart Freundlich ( real life husband of Julianne Moore ) , the story contrasts this couple with another , that of Tobey ( Billy Crudup ) and Elaine ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) . They are your perennial long term dating pair , with one eager to tie the knot , while the other just being commitment phobic . The hairline cracks finally give way , and we go into deep examination of the doom and gloom , the familiarity and the taking for granted , your other half . There's plenty of dialogue in this movie , but don't expect most of them to be funny all the time . No quality wisecracks can be found here . While some are humorous , they come off rather contrived . Many scenes are also set around the ( dinner ) table , which offers the perfect opportunity for the characters to get together and share their thoughts , being conveniently related to one another , through blood relations and friendship . What's interesting though , is the reminder constantly played throughout , about the need to be totally honest about each other , even though this will mean having to declare things you know will definitely hurt . A cry for help shouldn't be blown away . Again there are plenty more scenes shot which didn't make it to the final cut , and the editing was not slick enough to cover up these open end hanging feeling between scenes . A whole host of supporting cast like Gary Shandling and Eva Mendes amongst others , get so minuscule a role , they just adds to the needless character count , and contribute to the fat not required in story development . But if you think you're in need of some serious romance drama , and potentially the need to reaffirm your love for someone , or in the mood for some discussions about the various themes put across - of love , faith , lust and sex , then Trust the Man will be your clear choice this week .
A Nutshell Review : Madagascar	Dreamworks Animation SKG has set high standards with its Shrek series , and follow ups like Shark Tale . Somehow this film falls short of expectations , and the best bits seemed to have been featured in the trailers . Without going into the story details which you can piece together from promotions - this one has neither the zaniness nor a level of adult sophistication which we are spoilt with , and it seemed pretty back to basics . Sure the spoofs are there - but not as rampant as the other animations ( See ? I'm comparing here ! It's the standards that are set ! I can't help it ! ) . I've only managed to spot Zoolander , American Beauty , Cast Away , and given the premise , how can anyone not spoof the reality TV series Survivor ? The lack of spoofs might not mean much , but dialogue without much wit doesn't cut out for me . Louis Armstrong's Born Free being played ad nausem also got to me . Despite its flaws , the animation is still top notch . The animals are beautifully drawn , and as always , contain that hint of their real life actors in them , like caricatures . In the zebra , you see Chris Rock , the Lion , the cockiness and self-importance of most Ben Stiller's reel life characters , and David Schwimmer's prominent neck resulted in him being handed the role of the giraffe . Jada Pinkett Smith as the hippopotamus ? Now that's something different ! Some of you might fall in love with the potential of the supporting characters , and at times , it seemed that they upstage the main leads . The pair of monkeys ( one can read but can't speak , the other can't read but speaks with a stiff upper lip ) , the gang of penguins ( they steal the show each scene they're in ) , a squirrel with rip-off Shrek's-puss-in-boots eyes ( awww . . . ) , and my personal favourite - the crazed Lemur King , who speaks like an Indian chief ( he sounds like one anyway ! ) . Perhaps with a little bit of direction and a more focused script ( for kids ? Or for adults ? Or having elements of both to entertain adults and kids alike ? Kids were falling asleep in this film - a sin for animation ! ) this could turn out into a hit . Alas the Dark Side of the Force is strong , and I really don't see this scaling to the peak of the ( US ) movie charts and dethroning the Sith . The saving grace for me - the madcap jungle banghra rave party ! WOOHOO ! Repeated again as the end credits roll , but nothing at the end except for a hippo who thinks its a Tinkerbell .
A Nutshell Review : ( SIFF ) Noriko's Dinner Table	This Japanese film is my closing film for this year's SIFF . It tells of a compelling family story , where " safe " is boring , and a child is off looking for that spark in life to spice things up . Turning her back to her family , Noriko makes her way to Tokyo to look up her internet friends , friends she came to know through an online forum . At first everything seems puzzling , until she realize that they are all " actors " , folks providing " rental family " services to lonely people out there , yearning to belong . It's ironic that Noriko had turned her back on her real family , only to join a surrogate one , pretending to be close knit to a lot of other strangers . She takes on her online persona , and forgets about " Noriko " , the life she left behind . Which makes it really strange - why would anyone want to abandon their own family , and comfort zone , to make believe with others ? It's a social exploration of alienation , and on a separate note , tries to look at the trend of suicide clubs in Japan . One harrowing scene that was replayed , was that of 54 female students jumping off a train platform in unison . Taking on pseudo-security camera views , and plenty of blood with the smashing of heads on track ( in full glory ) , it'll make you wince , yet wonder in astonishment , the question of Why . ßRunning parallel to Noriko's narrative , are a few others , like her dad's , her sister Yuka's ( who also joined Noriko in her new role ) , and a forum founder Komiko . Taking on parallel and different points of view , it is no wonder that this film clocks in at slightly more than 2 hours . The father seeks Noriko and Yuka and wants to start afresh by welcoming them home , but find that the siblings have already disowned their lives thus far , preferring to pretend to be someone else , someone they have total control over , someone that they have created for themselves . The movie started off strongly , but the pace sagged around the half way mark , before picking up again for the grand finale . It also helped that almost all the female cast in this movie are eye-candy , contrasting the seriousness of the issues presented , with their outward cuteness and pretty faces . It's a pretty weird story , with strange characters , those who don't bat an eyelid over suicide , taking it as a form of higher calling . However you'll still be stuck at the Why question , as the movie doesn't offer any concrete answers , and somehow teased with an ending hinting of a possible sequel , that probably wouldn't be made .
A Nutshell Review : Transporter 3	I'm beginning to see a pattern here , and I'm thinking that The Transporter , if it has the legs for more movies , could be the franchise equivalent of being a poor man's cousin to James Bond . Created and written by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen for three installments so far , the character of Frank Martin is a roguish looking strongman with a penchant for suiting up when going about being the best of the best in personalized delivery , with no questions asked , no names , and a whole host of other rules which he will of course break during the course of the movie . Like Bond , he drives a cool , sponsored signature car . While Bond has his Aston Martins and BMWs , Frank Martin traded his BM in the first movie , for the armoured Audi A8 W12 which he has brought over from the second film , and here , that sweet supercar got to be put through even more punishment . It also shows itself to be a cut about the rest in being waterproof too , and an occasional dunk in the river won't put out the powerful engine , with tyres that self-inflate too ( ok , so just in case you don't realize , I'm pointing out mistakes ) . And it follows the Bond formula in having the Chick of the Flick highlight too . Shu Qi came on board in the first film as the vixen who traded her body to convince Frank to take the job . Then we had the good girl-bad girl combination for Part 2 with Amber Valletta and Kate Nauta respectively . Here , model Natalya Rudakova , with her very obvious freckles getting in the way , continues from where Shu Qi left off , being the flower vase who can't speak English fluently no thanks to her strong accent , and that's fine since their characters hail from a non-English speaking country . Director at the helm has been round robin too ( now by Olivier Megaton ) , with Hong Konger Corey Yuen crafting the first movie , before taking the back seat in every film by taking charge of how Frank Martin does hand to hand combat . So we do get to see some consistency in the technique that Jason Statham adopts in performing martial arts and various stunt work on his own , and Statham definitely has what it takes to fill up the void of having the lack of Western action heroes on the big screen . I suppose with more hits under his belt ( pardon the pun ) he could cement this status , and I sincerely hope that he avoids the plague of being relegated in his later years to the direct to video market . As far as the story goes , it just provides a basic premise and an excuse to see how our hero gets to sit behind the wheel again . The Frank Martin now is more laid back , and spends most of his leisure time with the French detective Tarconi ( Francois Berleand ) whom he has befriended now . Until of course his reputation catches up with him , and in a Crank inspired moment , has to do what he does best for the bad guys , much against his wishes . The villains almost always seem to be part of what's topical at the moment , and this time Frank Martin has to contend with some eco-terrorists who are blackmailing a minister , involving some permit for industrial waste . But who cares about any semblance of the plot anyway ? We're looking for some adrenaline pumping , high octane action aren't we all ? And here's where it takes a slide for the worse actually . Unlike Bond , there isn't anything new or refreshing to keep the audience engaged and away from the deja-vu feeling . For some reason , Besson and Kamen's story seemed to be stuck in a lot of drama and talk-talk-talk , giving our hero not much time to flex his muscles . And when he gets the chance to , it's the same old one-man-surrounded-by-thugs routine where he effortlessly dispatches them all with aplomb . Such fight scenes are becoming common in The Transporter franchise , and Corey Yeun definitely needs to rejuvenate his action sequences designed for the franchise pronto . There are only two major fisticuffs scenes , and they all follow the same routine , which spells boring . And apart from that , we get the usual complementary car chases which seem to be rather standard with the usual camera shots and angles capturing the action too . Fans of the series and of Statham will no doubt make a bee line at the box office for this , but I suspect that should there be any more thoughts on extending the franchise beyond the three films , then while the formulaic plot format can be kept , the action better be innovative because nobody likes seeing the same thing twice . Since different directors got a chance to have a go at the franchise , perhaps a change in action choreographers might give Frank Martin the lift that he needs .
A Nutshell Review : The Wig	If you'd know me by now , I take my pick of horror flicks depending on my mood . I'm game anytime for zombie films , might take a little persuasion with vampire flicks , ghosts and goblins I might like too . The Hollywood movies that is , heavily laden with effects , and most of the time compensated with gore . I haven't watched an Asian horror movie since The Ring , and now have taken my first plunge with The Wig . Oh OK , it's all about the chicks again . Dark Water had Jennifer Connelly , Skeleton Key yesterday had Kate Hudson . In The Wig , we have two beautiful ( actually in my opinion , one only ) sisters Ji-hyeon ( Yu Seon ) and Su-hyeon ( Chae Min-seo ) . Su-hyeon is suffering from leukemia , and isn't given too long to live . Her sister Ji-hyeon takes it upon herself to care for her until the end , which isn't expected to be too long . We see sisterly love abound after a cheesy start to the movie , and Ji-hyeon presents a wig for her sister to cover her bald head , the side effects of chemotherapy . Of course , the wig's possessed by a spirit ( hence the obvious title ) , and therefore takes over the life of Su-hyeon . She seemed to rapidly recover without the aid of drugs , and has a sudden lusting towards her sister's ex-boyfriend Ki-seok . Attitudes and habits change . You can experience the occasional standard horror fare like dream sequences , hallucinations , sudden appearances , pesky cats , dark corridors , creepy attics and the likes . Familiar territory for horror buffs . So it's left to our heroine Ji-hyeon to quickly discover the whos , wheres , and whys , before it's too late to save her beloved sister from the devil . I suppose with most formulae , this discovery always ties down to the various characters in the movie , and their back-stories . It might interest you that Ji-hyeon didn't speak throughout the movie , as she was injured in an accident , so don't expect a lot of screams from her to raise your goosebumps . But the main back-story , once revealed , is actually quite sad , especially the scenes after the revelation . It might be brief , and it might just bring out a tear or two from some sensitive audience . A slight twist at the end too when they tie up some of the subplots , which might raise some eyebrows , but only after a few cheap scares by the filmmakers . And yes , I'll make it a point to peek under the toilet seat for the next few days . Gee , must every spirit from horror movies start to appear from everyday objects ? Handphones next , anyone ?
A Nutshell Review : My Wife is a Gangster 3	Director Cho Jin-gyu of the original action-comedy My Wife is a Gangster returns to direct this sequel . However , without the return of the titular Wife Cha Eun-jin ( Shin Eun-Kyung ) , this movie is nothing more than just a namesake , but there's no stopping the linkage with the box office success of the earlier movies . The new Wife here ( though she's actually a guest rather than a Wife ) is none other than sultry looking Shu Qi , who plays Aryong , the daughter of a triad leader ( what else ) in Hong Kong , starring Ti Lung in a supporting role . There are some bits shot in Hong Kong , and in the Cantonese language , which is all fine and dandy ( given it's rare here to hear complete Cantonese dialogue in movies no thanks to the Speak Mandarin campaign ) , but what was bad in these scenes were the plenty of subtitles - in English , Mandarin and Korean , which cover almost 50 % of the screen . As the story goes , Aryong offends some gangsters in her homeland , and in a bid to ensure her safety , her father gets her packing overseas to take cover from the impending gangland war . She gets packed to where else , Korea ( it's a Korean production after all ) , and becomes a guest to some Korean mafiaso , with Ki-Chul ( Lee Beom-su ) and his posse being the hosts and guardians of Aryong . But with the bumbling inept fools , you're quite certain who's the protector , and who's in need of protection here . It's a fairly average movie with the usual lost in translation jokes , the clashing of cultures and of course , societal norms in a male dominated society . Mistaken intentions and deliberate translation errors to pursue individual character ends are the staple here , and some of them are genuinely funny , but like the adage , too much of a good thing cheapens it , especially when it continues to milk and replay scenes , such as over the dining table . You can see most of the jokes coming your way , and it depended very much on the actors ' skill in delivery - that exaggerated body language , or that wide-eyed stare of disbelief and suspicion . The action sequences are nothing much to wow about , especially with Shu Qi's superwoman Aryong character , who's almost only the character here who can fight . Given the number of goons thrown at her , you can't help but feel that many action scenes remind you of The Bride in Kill Bill , as she dispatches henchmen with so much ease , she rarely breaks into a sweat . And most times , with that deliberate long hair obscuring her face , you can bet your last dollar it's a stuntman taking over that lithe frame . Some cheap shots were incorporated into the storyline , playing to Shu Qi's ex-vamp , slutty image of yesteryears . Guess you can't help it when you have some notoriety in your history , and scenes of boob grabs and woman-on-top staircase-induced gyrating scenes were in the movie quite unnecessarily , if nothing more for some juvenile laughs . But all said , it's still a tad enjoyable , especially when you can't get tickets into the other blockbuster movies like Transformers and Die Hard 4 . 0 currently showing . Sometimes , movies like this when released at the same time of the expected sold-out movies , makes its cash by being the catch-all net from the expected overflow .
A Nutshell Review : Pleasure Factory	According to Pleasure Factory , Geylang was once an area where factories process coconuts , but now have given way to brothels providing pleasure , with pimps eager to hawk their latest acquisitions to anyone loitering a little while longer . Perhaps it's like Vegas , where what happens in Geylang stays in Geylang , that the characters here all have a propensity of not speaking . I would have no issues on this if the visuals , which paint a kaleidoscope of beautiful imagery showcasing the lure of the bright lights and the seedier side of what dwells amongst the shadows , can maintain a movie on its own before starting to look like Discovery Channel , but too often the narrative found itself caught up in the moment with its characters , in obvious short stories forced together through casual circumstances . The three stories here were actually like snapshots , everything given on the surface , and without much depth . The first story is the perennial army boy seeking to pop his cherry , and what better way to do so than with someone of experience . Loo Zihan ( who co-directed and was one of the leads in Solos ) stars as the Jonathan the army boy who while at first seemed shy and unwilling , on the goading of a friend Kiat ( Katashi Chen ) , managed to decide on the services of a buxom girl from China , Xue Er . I thought this story was the best amongst the three , in that it had clear direction in what it wanted to get at , interjected with good humour . It also painted the motivations of all the characters clearly , highlighting the play acting and masks that people wear , whether we really know the deep dark secret desires that others have in mind , and dalliances on love , lust , and of course , the virgin experience . Unfortnately , that cannot be said of the story involving the veterans Ananda Everingham and Yang Kuei-Mei , who's a regular in Tsai Mi ng-liang movies , that Pleasure Factory tries hard to emulate its minimalistic and reliance on visual language , with dismal results . People hardly talk here , and the visuals relied a fair bit on the unsteadicam as it weaves about and around the corridors of a budget hotel . While Yang's Linda and Isabella Chan's teenage girl has a mother-daughter love-hate relationship suggested , it was Ananda's Chris that proved to be the story arc's undoing , given that his character had no clear motivation at all . He just appears , hesitates , feels sorry , and that's it , finding it hard to communicate to the duo given that he speaks only English . And it's not the characters alone that have unclear objectives and motivations . The movie too was disjointed in itself , having succumbed to schizophrenic moments where it inserted two documentary styled interview footage into the narrative structure , thus having those sticking out like a sore thumb . While much of the narrative is fictional in nature , I thought that it may have felt a need to have a mockumentary ( ? ) mouthpiece to provide us some candid answers , albeit for a short while only . The remaining story arc puts the spotlight on a pleasure giver , a hot girl in a red dress ( played by Jeszlene Zhou ) , the regular plaything of a old , pudgy man driving a sports car , who while jaded with satisfying the lusty old man , as a person she too yearns the desire for love / lust being satisfied . I thought this was a more of a conventional treatment of Herman Yau's Whispers and Moans in its tit-for-tat moment , but it does open one's eyes to having to resort to innovative methods to solicit , and cements the term " Special " being us ed in the trade . In circumstances where you tell the pimp your fantasies and get them fulfilled somewhat , Pleasure Factory did not manage to do just that . You have a basic idea what you want to get at . and while it's packaged very nicely on the outside , the skills for pleasuring the senses dispensed unfortunately didn't provide for a satisfying time . But this is Geylang after all . Fans will undoubtedly have no hesitation to see how their playground gets depicted in a feature length film , while those curious enough or have never stepped foot into its territory , would probably prefer to see it through a filmmaker's lens first .
A Nutshell Review : Charlie Bartlett	You have Ferris Bueller , and Van Wilder , and now we have Charlie Bartlett ( Anton Yelchin ) . But unlike the other two high school dudes with natural chemistry , Bartlett got to work hard at it , stemmed from his personal issues which manifest itself as a want to get himself catapulted to the top of the popularity charts . Being from a rich household , he finds himself like a fish out of water in a public school after being thrown out of just about every private school out there for his shenanigans . And of course , things don't get any better after a disastrous day at school with the school bully , and giving the first wrong impressions to Principal Gardner ( Robert Downey Jr ) , whom he has to convince later when Bartlett begins to develop affections for Gardner's daughter and fellow schoolmate Susan ( Kat Dennings ) . So beings a power struggle of sorts within the school compound , and for the girl both care about . Some have billed Charlie Bartlett as a Juno follow up , but I would like to beg to differ . Sure , they're both dealing with high school kids who fast talks , but when compared to Juno , Charlie Bartlett would probably get his butt kicked real hard . Not to say that Charlie Bartlett is a bad film , but Juno offered a lot more pizazz , attitude and charm that Bartlett seemed to be lacking . However , there are still enjoyable moments with Bartlett that most school kids who aim to be Mr or Ms Popular , would probably identify with . And the scenes where Charlie becomes Agony Uncle and sets up shop dispensing useful advice , as well as controlled drugs , take the cake in the movie , as he discovers his niche market , and milked them for all it's worth . Anton Yelchin has this very sly demeanour and offers much of a devilish attitude from beneath that wimpy surface , though I can't really say that as Charlie Bartlett it will be his defining role . I look forward to his involvement as Chekov in JJ Abrams ' upcoming reboot of the Star Trek movie though . The soundtrack is unlikely to be memorable ( for a teen movie ! The Horror ! ) though one can take consolation with Hope Davis ' portrayal as Charlie's neurotic mother Marilyn , which did seem like a distant cousin to Annette Benning's role in Running With Scissors . And Robert Downey Jr with a bottle in hand did seem like reliving his past on screen , and I'd bet his Tony Stark in Iron Man , would also seem like a stroll down memory lane for him too . The best parts of the story for his Principal Gardner of course involves his one to one challenges with Bartlett , as do any school principal with their school's # 1 rascal , so there's nothing new though to offer there . I had expected a lot from Charlie Bartlett , and we all know what expectations can do , especially when the movie doesn't seem to hit the mark set . Enjoyable , but not the greatest we've seen in the shenanigans department .
A Nutshell Review : Untraceable	So I thought I'd take a break from the Festival and get down to some regular screening of what some would deem as the usual products from the usual assembly line . Untraceable became that movie , because the poster here had Ebert giving it a positive rating , but everyone else I heard had panned it . Directed by Gregory Hoblit , who was at the helm of one of my favourite movies Frequency , I thought I'd give it a shot . The premise was interesting enough to appeal to geeks , at least some parts of it . A serial killer with the technical know-how sets up a site , and uses the power of the internet as well as the voyeuristic nature of the online denizens to aid in the kills , meaning the more hits the site receives during an online , live execution , the faster the victim will die . Needless to say should he slap an ad on the site , it'll rake him enough dough to retire . And the police can't do anything about it because of bureaucratic red tape in terms of jurisdictions , and of course , the killer being a gifted cracker . In the veins of torture porn movies , it does showcase some rather sick though innovative ways of brutally dispatching someone , although it doesn't resort to ramping up the gore element unnecessarily . There were some nifty visual effects and makeup , but for those weaned on the Saw franchise and its wannabes , then Untraceable doesn't provide anything new . So goes the usual cliché storyline of cops , led by Diane Lane's FBI Agent Jennifer Marsh , Colin Hanks ' Agent Griffin Dowd and Portland Detective Eric Box ( BIlly Burke ) , going after the elusive killer whose only presence is online , until it becomes personal and hits closer to home with the obvious plot development involving family and friends . But unlike its title , there's nothing much untraceable about this hunter and prey game , and provides you with very little connection or psychological challenge in outwitting , outlasting and outplaying each other . It doesn't attempt to build up the great " unknown " about the killer in a whodunnit fashion , and only weaves through a connection of convenience . However , Untraceable does have genuinely tension building moments , and you do find yourself sitting at the edge of your seat during certain segments , but that's about it , as the rest of the time , it's just plain sailing in expected waters . I felt that while it had some message to say about online netizens and anonymous chatter in general , it doesn't quite achieve what it had set out to do . You get to see snapshots of essentially a chatroom with its mindless discussions and terrible shorthand with typos , which probably is something you'd be accustomed to should you visit any chatroom anyway . Also , Hollywood still couldn't get away from designing some really snazzy login menus and user interfaces that end users in the real world will probably drool over , or laugh at its cumbersomeness . What really plummeted the movie to B-grade movie territory is the ending . No worries , no spoilers here , but really , it ended with plenty of bravado and the cheese was just too thick to swallow . Seriously , watching Diane Lane did whatever she did , sent my eyeballs rolling upwards sky high . Promising premise which didn't allow for its plot to keep pace .
A Nutshell Review : Big Stan	The only other movie I remember vividly with the protagonist fearing his upcoming time spent in jail , was in Spike Lee's powerful drama 25th Hour , where we follow Edward Norton's character in his final day of freedom before being sent to the slammer . In Big Stan , Rob Schneider's crooked time-share conman Stan got arrested in the opening minutes for fraud ( and you might think it's for racism ) , and spends much of the first act mulling over the fear of getting raped in jail , for not being part of any gang , and a first timer wussy who's easy target for the lonely tough guys behind bars . Thanks to his crooked lawyer Lew Popper ( M . Emmet Walsh ) and the crooked system ( from the judiciary right down to the prison warden , who as the movie states , are always made to look like dicks anyway ) , he gets six months off before he has to present himself to the courts to begin his sentence , in in this period of time , tries his best to look " undesirable " . Help comes in the form of The Master , played to good campy effect by David Carradine , star of the 70s Kung Fu series , whom I last saw in Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill movies playing well , yet another stereotyped kung fu master . Thus begins the tried and very tired formula of the kooky training regime with strange food and diet , coupled with near impossible feats like titty-weight training . Granted there were some genuine sight gags , but sad to say they all get confined to this particular sequence . The trailer would have already spelt it all out for you , and suffice to say that the best bits were already inside . The story by Josh Lieb seemed to have run out of steam even before the mid-way mark , where Stan had already entered the jailhouse , and asserted his tougher than tough , no nonsense , keep away demeanour by punching the lights out of the meanest rapist in jail , and a few others . If you're looking for end to end laughter , then you're likely to be bored once Stan becomes head honcho in getting some respect in jail . With that out of the way , the movie degenerated into series of clichés , and the usual nasty warden with nasty plan routines . It didn't help that supporting characters here were stereotyped into playing stereotypes , conveniently split into the different cliques and clans . Directed by Rob Schneider himself , his films to date has somewhat been of a hit and miss for me . Lending his prowess to supporting roles like in You Don't Mess With The Zohan and Click , I thought he usually fared better in those , unlike having to carry the movie solely on his own , ala Deuce Bigelow and The Benchwarmers . What I found out unfortunately is that they usually start off strongly with quite a unique premise ripe for the cracking of some insane jokes , before fizzling out halfway and coasts through some predictable drama to the finale . Still , some laughs are better than none at all , so if you really feel that you need some light hearted medicine , then you'll find some joy in the beginning , but that's all .
A Nutshell Review : Raaz : The Mystery Continues	The first Raaz starring Bipasha Basu has nothing to do with this film . The mystery indeed continues here in name only , just like how the Thai horror franchise The Art of the Devil 2 having no relation to Part 1 . It's a totally different story altogether with no return of characters from the first film , so this rose could be called any other name , and would it smell as sweet ? There's a certain formula followed here and comes with the obligatory " logical " explanation , but the story could have been nipped and tucked a little to help in the pacing . Fashion model Nandita ( Kangana Ranaut who seems stuck in such roles , the last of which was the recent Fashion ) and her fiancé Yash ( Adhyayan Suman ) seem to hit all the right notes as a successful yuppie couple . At first we're told the relationship is on the rocks , but then a quick reconciliation over an awards ceremony meant happy days for both . For her , she's at the height of her career , and for him , being the successful producer-director of a long running reality television series called Superstition , which explores the many myths and beliefs in Indian culture , and goes about deconstructing and debunking them . So of course , things start to go bump in the night , but seemingly affecting Nandita more , to the point of insanity . We get introduced to an artist Prithvi ( Emraan Hashmi ) , who falls into a drunken trance with a few swigs , and ends up painting masterpieces of people he doesn't know , only to find that the impressions of his paintings are predictions of future occurrences . Recognizing that his drawings lately have resembled the high profile model , he takes it upon himself to explain things , and this sets everything up for a romantic triangle , where his brooding demeanor doesn't put him in the good books of flamboyant Yash . Things with Nandita start to get worst , and just as you wonder if there would be any inkling of Hollywood come smacking in the face of the film , there had to be some homage paid to movies like Ghostbusters ( Kangana's rendition of the Gatekeeper , anyone ? ) and The Devil's Advocate , but this being Bollywood meant it's a clothes on affair in the display of deep - rooted scars in front of a church altar . Shades from Asian horror like The Ring also gets overused here . Songs have to be worked in , and this was done fairly smartly in having to set it in pubs , private serenading and a much unwanted dream-like fantasy of Prithvi lusting after Nandita ( well , it did seem that way ) . Director Mohit Suri employed every trick in the scare book in order to work up some boo - moments , some of which still get effectively delivered , while others dallied on the anticipation too long and backfired . From mirror images to shaky doorknobs , from copious amounts of blood stained walls to deserted underground car parks , sound effects in the theatre were maxed out to give that sense-surround creepy feeling , with whispers and creaky doors used to great effect . Alas the narrative failed to exploit the technical brilliance at the film's disposal , and investigations by both Prithvi and Nandita ( the character of Yash does get forgotten for a while ) take their toil as they take just too darn long to get to where they should ( about 40 minutes ! ) . Unfortunately we don't get to see a lot of footage of superstition which could've been milked for various scenes . Instead , it becomes a rather bland X-Files episode where the superstitious and the non-believers go head on toward unraveling the mystery of the worshippers and rites of a remote town , with some environmental concerns thrown right in just because it's the in thing . The link that binds the characters together were too weak to say the least , becoming too trying especially in its final revelation with a last ditch attempt . If it had tightened its pace and felt no need to explain everything in verbatim , this could clock way below 2 hours , and a tighter thriller could result . Not a bad experience for my first Hindi thriller , but it had room to be much better .
A Nutshell Review : Wolf Creek	Based on true events supposedly , Wolf Creek is an Australian production that adds its two cents worth to the slasher genre . However , audiences today won't buy too much into " based on a true story / event / life / etc " gimmick , especially if your end credits contain a line that reveals all events in the movie are purely fictional . Right . Nonetheless this movie takes its cue from disappearing folks in Australia , having more than 30 , 000 people doing a Houdini , 90 % being discovered within the first month of disappearance , and the remainder being out there , somewhere , unaccounted for , gone perhaps . Oh , there are lots of creeks at the outback , like the Emu's , but our story takes place in the more sinister sounding Wolf Creek ( Wolfe Creek actually ) . But it takes about an hour before the real action began , which is a long yawn . During the first hour , you don't get to see much except tolerate the weak characters on screen , characters you don't care about anyway because you know they are fresh meat , and having that meat pounded is all you care about ( otherwise , why bother with a movie like this ? ) An Aussie bloke and two of his British chick friends are on a road trip across Australia . Like I mentioned , the first hour is pretty boring as they make their way to various pit stops and attractions , like Wolf Creek Crater , a pretty amazing sight to behold , touted to be a site where a meteorite came crashing down . Just as they are about to leave , their vehicle fail to start and are contemplating spending the night under the stars . To their good fortune , a friendly Samaritan came along and offers free help . But there's nothing like free lunch , or is it ? It brings back what your mama always tell you about talking and trusting strangers . It's like Haute Tension ( High Tension ) shown last year , and Jeepers Creepers combined , with its bogeyman hunter character , but it's no Blair Witch Project in the atmospheric department . The degree of gore is comparable , but not that many scenes because it's pretty low budgeted . In some scenes , you thought that even sicker stuff would be presented , given the array of equipment made available , but alas they were not to be . Which makes one wonder , if we could go even more extreme than writer-director Greg McLean . Which of course isn't a very good sign if you have ideas that can probably top the writer and director's vision . Either you're a sick sick person , or the movie is mediocre when compared to slasher greats . And it won't do you any favours if you're planning a road trip in Australia anytime soon , and your vehicle happens to break down .
A Nutshell Review : The Art of Seduction	Truth be told , if I were to come across Son Ye-jin's Han Ji-wan character , with those bambi eyes and pretty face , I would go jelly too . But that'a about it . I guess I pretty much ruled myself out of the dating scene , for the time being at least , to fall for her manipulative charms . Perhaps it's true that a pretty face can turn a monster into a mouse , and boy , does Son Ye-jin turn heads . She plays a " player / swinger " Han Ji-wan , a private banker who uses her good looks to win customer confidence , or uses it to seduce any man she fancies , for whatever multiple reasons . If anything , players / swingers are quite insecure folks , despite the confidence they project on the exterior . Audiences might have noticed her playing opposite Korean heartthrob Bae Yong-jun in April Snow , where her character was mostly calm , composed , demure , quiet . Here , she goes to the opposite end of the spectrum , with her gregarious , scheming nature in full contrast with the former character's . She also seemed to have slimmed down a bit from her chubbier April Snow outing , but yeah , nobody's complaining ; - P Playing the alpha-male seducer , her counterpart / rival / mark , is actor Song Il-guk . As a good looking architect , Seo Min-jun is a chip off his father's playboy ways . Like Ji-wan , he too is able to turn on his charms to snag the woman he desires , and when he's tired of it all , after reaching his goal , he brings them to a setup fortune teller , using Fate as an excuse that things will not work out . So The Art of Seduction presents to you , the tricks both sexes use on their prey . And it turns up the heat , when the two players meet . Here's where the usual tricks don't seem to work , especially when used on experienced , first-rate players who have worked the ground using similar tactics , and counter-tactics . The narrative was played out rather ordinarily , with one side being presented a scenario created by the other , and how they wriggle out from , then the tables are turned using a different scenario , and it goes on . And unfortunately , for far too long . It does get to you after a while , as you'll start to feel the length of this 100 minute movie . Some of the tactics used were recycled , like Ji-wan's expensive car accident trick , and Min-jun's cost of cigarette statement . For non-Korean speaking folks , you might get lost during the early sight gags where MCQs in Korean flashed on screen . Thankfully this technique isn't used for the entire movie . Many situations presented in the movie also pushes the envelope of believability - how much would a man go to satisfy the unreasonable / weird demands of a girl ? It's the games people play , and how much do you want to get involved ? And it does seem weird that the men Ji-wan snags ( with her skills ) always turn out to be the ah-peks ( older men have all the fun ? ) while Min-jun does well with better choices ( by better I mean more pleasing to the eye ) . On the whole , the movie is pretty campy fun , despite some scenarios not being reasonably plausible . You get to laugh at the jokes ( some being quite weak though , and can be seen a mile away ) , toilet humour even , but more importantly , depending which way you swing , the eye candy on screen would be satisfying enough to forgive the flaws .
A Nutshell Review : Silk	If Fate would have it , I would have the opportunity to go to Tokyo for this year's Japanese International Film Festival , and watched this as the closing film . Initially I had mixed this up with Atonement , also starring Keira Knightley in a period romance story , except that this one had shades of The Last Samurai thrown in , with the love triangle moments with the involvement of a Japanese girl . Based on the novel by Alessandro Baricco , Silk takes its name from the Silk trade , where a French village looks to having its economy hit , if not for Alfred Monlina's Baldabiou who ventures into opening a silk mill and employing the townsfolk . However , in need of untainted silkworm eggs , free from an epidemic striking Europe , he sends overseas one of his staff Herve Joncour ( Michael Pitt ) , whom is indebted to him for arranging his marriage with Knightley's Helene , and off he goes on the arduous journey first to Africa , then to the land of the rising sun , now in the impending stage of internal strife . The journeys are probably the best bits in the movie , with lush landscapes filling the screen in all serenity of the turmoils that are yet to come . I thought director Francois Girard tried to ape Terence Mallick's direction , with lush natural beauty punctuated with voice over narration of the character's inner-most thoughts . We learn a lot of what's going on in Herve's mind , as he tells us the story of his being , and the conflict he faces when he gets tempted to committing adultery , never forgetting about his tryst overseas when back home he has a lovely wife to go home to . While the movie has that central conflict that provides the fuel to propel the movie forward , somehow it never gets utilized , having the story and characters dance around on the sidelines of the issue , never to take it head on . This adds to the frustration of watching the deliberations that they have , made worse as the movie chooses to unfold itself extremely slowly , taking too much of its own sweet time . Fans of Keira Knightley would have watched this movie solely to see her performance after the Pirates double bill , but sadly , even though she's given top billing , her screen time is limited , as the spotlight falls on Michael Pitt's Herve and we are told of this story through his eyes . What adds to the annoyance as well , is that the movie is sans English subtitles . Having it set in France but the characters speaking in English is understandable ( after all , Pitt is American and Knightley is English ) , but having the Japanese speak in their native tongue , and not providing the subtitles , removes a layer that would have provided probably a deeper understanding of the movie . Yes , granted we are supposed to feel the pain of Herve in his inability to connect with the people and the one he loves , but I don't feel that this should be done at the expense of understanding , especially for non-Japanese speaking folks . However , despite its obvious flaws , the movie redeems itself with a powerful end , packing quite a punch especially when you think it's headed nowhere and probably into mediocrity . Suddenly you discover that things are again not always what they seem , and wonder just who the bigger fool is . But the bottomline , if there's a message to be taken away from this movie , is again never to give in to temptation , and truly treasure your loved ones . Tried and tested , clichéd but true .
A Nutshell Review : Vacancy	For starters , if I own a BWM , I'll make sure I have a baseball bat handy and near enough for that occasional road rage , and am sure as hell gonna bring it along with me if my car stalls and I need to journey into the night . And to remember never to bicker incessantly with my wife because she's always right , and everyone else deserves to have their heads bash in because otherwise , they'll snuff us . Clocking in at a mere 80 minutes thereabout , Vacancy seemed like a decent thrill-a-minute ride , with Luke Wilson and Kate Beckinsale playing an estranged Fox couple , spending the first 20 of those precious minutes arguing for the most parts inside their BMW . They take their time to set themselves up for the fall , and in the process fail to heed the warning signs which you can learn all about in the movie Scream . The person who's helping you has ulterior motives usually designed to get you in harm's way , and everything that is too conveniently true , well , surely is . You can't help but to feel that director Nimrod Antal ( who directed the excellent Kontroll ) was somewhat hampered by the formulaic script written by Mark L Smith . Instead of having the perpetrators stay one step ahead and in turn keeping our victims on their toes , what you experience is yourself predicting how the movie will turn out , every single step of the way , right down to pointing out where shadows will appear , and which scene will have that throwaway jump shot to elicit some cheap screams . Not surprisingly , nobody in the theatre I was watching this in felt any adrenaline rush , as they reeked of a sense of familiarity - you know who the villains are , you know what will happen to cops , and worse , Vacancy followed recent peer flicks like Wolf's Creek and the likes to exhibit some girl power . Perhaps the only scenes which will get your heart pumping , are the snuff films on display , albeit at times strategically cut away . Watching those aged films did bring on some pity at the least , that there are sickos out there who make these films for sheer pleasure and profit . And having realize that they are in dire straits , the Foxes begin figuring out in double quick time just how to survive the horrendous ( in both sense of the word ) night . But it's not all hopeless though , if you haven't experienced much of the movies from the same genre , then you might find Vacancy entertaining . There was something I enjoyed watching though ( no , it's not Beckinsale , who still looked stunning despite having to exhibit fear throughout ) , and that's the beautiful main and end titles . They're wonderfully designed , and they just work . Those who have a font fetish , will most likely go ga-ga over them . Vacancy showed promise , but as you soon realize , it's nothing much other than a rehash of familiar plots and situations . Oh Beckinsale should go all vampirish on her hunters !
A Nutshell Review : Young Andersen	This Danish movie is shown in Singapore as part of the Hans Christian Andersen Film Festival , running till next week . I also learnt that Singapore is the first country outside Denmark to screen this film . The narrative of this film is simple , looking back into the early life of Hans Christian , before he was an accomplished writer of stories you and I are familiar with ( like The Ugly Duckling , Little Match Girl , etc ) , he was an uneducated young lad looking for his first major break , be it as an actor , writer , poet or playwright . However , his deficiency was in his formal education , or lack thereof . An opportunity was presented and he gets sponsored by the King to get educated in a school , tutored personally by the school's principal Mr Meisling , and staying with his family . Here he befriends a young servant boy named Tuk , and cements their friendship with his telling of fairy tales . But with Meisling's unorthodox teaching methods , and ban on Hans Christian's wanting to write poetry , both men clash . It seems that Meisling wants to curb Hans Christian's perceived attention disorder ( words cloud his mind and he wanders off developing and writing " bad " poems off the cuff ) , while the latter deems Meisling too stifling . The direction seems to be split between wanting to explore the friendship between Hans Christian and Tuk , and to explore the rivalry and resentment between Hans Christian and Meisling . This indecisiveness takes its toil on the overall feel of the movie , as I couldn't fathom which , and was feeling a little divided over the movie's narrative objective . The production sets and costumes are beautiful , and I could say the acting credible . The pace however , needed improvement , as most times scenes drag , for no apparent reason . There were also sub-plots that could be done without , which could probably improve the narrative , as these plots don't add much depth . Those who plan to watch this film , don't expect to be watching him develop his well known and loved stories ( a narrative track similar to Finding Neverland ) . Rather , it's a film on his self-discovery , and probably regret , which allowed him to learn , and inject these sad experiences into his tales .
A Nutshell Review : Becoming Jane	Julian Jarrold gave us Kinky Boots in 2005 , and now helms something I thought of as more solemn in tone with the biographical tale of literary legend Jane Austen in Becoming Jane , starring Anne Hathaway and James McAvoy in yet another period dramatic piece since Atonement . Here , they play star crossed lovers who get embroiled with the rigidity of class , honour and reputation back in Old England , with him being a legal student , and she , a budding novelist , where at the time isn't a career choice ( if at all ) for a female . Sounds like Pride and Prejudice ? Yes . If the movie is to be believed , then the love and life of Jane Austen served very much as the basis and seed for the premise of that novel of hers , and for an audience , probably ample opportunity to soak in the scenes that ring a bell , and compare Hathaway's performance as Austen to Keira Knightley's performance as her created character Elizabeth Bennet . The two characters couldn't be more alike , with one being almost an autobiographical account of the life she's facing as a single woman of marriageable age , and what more , being wooed by a Mr Darcy equivalent in Tom Lefroy ( James McAvoy ) . Also , the tale moved along quite similarly to that of Miss Potter , which tells of the story of the creator of Peter Rabbit , where we're plunged headlong into the critical crossroads of their professional life as well . Or like that of Finding Neverland , yet another adaptation of the life and times of JM Barrie , who gave us Peter Pan where inspiration is as chronicled in the movie . I thought Anne Hathaway finally got a meatier , more mature role here , and what more , starring as a legend too in Jane Austen . However , I can't deny that her faux pas English accent was found somewhat wanting and proved to be a distraction of sorts . She did manage , though , to bring out the pain that Jane had to go through in having to hold out on love , find it , lose it , like the adage says , better to have loved once and lost than never at all . James McAvoy's performance here is a notch below that which he delivered in Atonement , probably because it's something that has already been done to death ( not another Mr Darcy clone ! ) . The last 10 minutes was a kick too in seeing how visibly aged the characters become , thanks to wonderful make up . Other than that , sit tight for a romantic drama which as I mentioned , had much ado about Pride and Prejudice , that at times you might lapse into thinking it is that movie that you're watching .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Princess Raccoon ( 2005 )	I guess playing a Japanese character or acting in a Japanese movie doesn't warrant as much an uproar as having to play a Japanese geisha . And of course no prizes to be given out if you can guess why I would want to watch Princess Raccoon in the first place - that Zhang Ziyi is one of the leads in a Japanese movie , has piqued enough interest to pop the DVD into the player . The story is a simple one , which somewhat resembles that of Snow White . King Azuchi ( Mikijiro Hira ) is a terribly vain man , and like Snow White's evil stepmother , cannot stand for his offspring to be more beautiful ( yes ) than himself . So he hatches a plan to get rid of him , first by getting him murdered , failing which exile doesn't seem that bad of an alternative as well . So Prince Amechiyo ( Jo Odagiri ) accidentally journeys to the forbidden grounds at the foot of Mt Kairasu , where he meets with the Raccoon Princess Tanukihime ( Zhang Ziyi ) , and thus it becomes a tale of forbidden love , as he's human , and she's obviously not , and goes through its Romeo and Juliet routines . But as it is , the plot is somewhat meandering and plodding . While its central structure is clear , it tangents off with a number of subplots , and unless you're in a mood for fantastical elements with magic , deities and all in various surreal scenes , you'll find the story going terribly all over the place . There are too many characters here , and most of them the minor ones that just chalk up the number of casts without adding much to the story , and there perhaps to boast the beautiful costumes . What takes the cake here is the gorgeous sets and special effects . For the most parts , watching the movie is like watching a stage play , in that the camera pretty much doesn't try anything fancy , nor break the invisible 180 degree rule . It's as if you're sitting in a theatre , and watching events unfold in pretty much the style of a stage musical built on intricately designed sets , with the multitude of songs and dances . What makes this movie unique is the visual presentation , fusing effortlessly the elements of computer generated graphics with live action ( though some were deliberately cheesy ) , and that forms the primary appeal when watching the movie , which is part musical , part kabuki , part opera , nothing less than a visual spectacle . Zhang Ziyi obviously had her handicap in the movie worked to her advantage . Being a magical raccoon , she speaks in an incomprehensible language ( which is Mandarin ) to the rest of the Japanese folks , while being able to rote learn and spew by heart her lines in songs , given that they're repetitive in nature . Her acting's her a little over the top and exaggerated , perhaps to complement the operatic elements in the movie . Pick this up only if you are a completist in wanting to watch the movies in the filmography of Zhang Ziyi , or love graphics , sets and beautiful visuals . Otherwise the story is likely to bore you to death .
A Nutshell Review : King Kong ( 1976 )	This movie is as old as I am , but it's not the original . Yes you heard me right . The original big gorilla debut in 1933 . and this is a remake . Unless you've been residing in Mars , you'll also know that Peter Jackson will be adapting King Kong for the big screen for a release next month , and thank heavens it's closely based on the original . While this film also adapts from the same source material by Merian C . Cooper and Edgar Wallace , it has taken certain liberties and artistic license to change some character backgrounds and premise . For example , the film crew has been replaced with oil prospectors , and the blonde lass doesn't start off the journey with the team , but actually plucked out unconscious from the sea , an actress wannabe who didn't enjoy Deep Throat ( don't ask ) . Gone too is the iconic scene atop the Empire States Building , now Kong scales the World Trade Center and hops between the two towers ( alas , September 11 changed it all ) . However , this movie still retained much of the story's structure - team ventures into island , chances upon island inhabitants , inhabitants kidnap blonde lass as a sacrifice to the great Kong , the beauty and the beast sequence , the capture of Kong , bringing him back to New York , and all hell breaks loose . Just not quite . This Kong is quite benign in nature , and only goes berserk when jealousy makes him go on a rampage against those trying to prise his lass away from him . The effects look dated if you watch them today , and the animatronics probably made a giant ape hand - that's the only mechanical limb you get to see up close , the rest can be figured as a man in a rubber suit , captured using various techniques to achieve the desired proportions for size . Don't go scrutinizing the plot too , as there are gaping loopholes , and plenty of minor characters . Oh , Singapore's mentioned a lot of times in the first twenty minutes , as the ship crew navigates from Surabaya , Indonesia en route to looking for oil . Starring a very young and very hairy Jeff Bridges in the role of a professor / ape expert , this movie is probably famous for introducing a very nubile Jessica Lange in her first feature film . She could be considered as the Jessica Simpson of that era , having prancing around the island in hot pants and tank tops , various strapless gowns and in wet island garb , which gave way to a wardrobe malfunction when Kong molested her with its finger ( don't ask - the ape's probably horny too ) . So while awaiting Peter Jackson's masterpiece , why not get your hands on this adapted classic too ? Good for compare , contrast , but don't go bananas over this one if it doesn't meet your expectations .
A Nutshell Review : The Eye	So I haven't watched the original Eye movie by the Pang Brothers , but I guess with remakes these days , it doesn't really matter , since most of the time , the Hollywood remade version pales in comparison with the original , despite having a bigger budget , bigger stars and of course , better visual effects . And what almost always seem woeful , is the attempt to try and recreate the atmospherics for a spook fest that Asian horror had perfected , and I'm inclined to suggest that they should adapt the storyline ( since there's a creative dearth of ideas ) , but leave the mimicking of mood at the door . This is probably the first movie that Jessica Alba marquees , and comparisons would be abound for those who've watched the original to compare her to Angelica Lee's performance . But really , I don't think it matters , since all you need to do is to look scared . As blind violinist Sydney , Alba escapes the need to act blind given the cop out of using shades , coupled with the fact that her transplanted eyes allow for the camera to be out of focus for the most parts . Things start to get interesting when she begins to see shadowy figures borrowed straight out of Pulse ( yet another Asian horror remake ) , and these all get conveniently debunked by her doctor Paul ( Alessandro Nivola who stars as the hopeless , formless Gavin Harris in the Goal movies ) , because if you're blind for so many years , your brain needs some major time out to absorb all the new sights you're constantly bombarded with . So goes as with standard horror fare , that those who can see spirits when others can't , are classified as nutcases . Alba's no scream queen as the proceedings don't allow her to exercise her lungs , and I swear there are just too many of those waking up from nightmare moments , and the clock ticking around 1 : 05am . But credit is due though to the scenes which aim to frighten , and some did hit the mark even though they're the usual tools to surprise from the bag of Boo tricks . There are , to me , a major unexpected moment which I had to nod in acknowledgement of not seeing it coming ( I had thought otherwise ) , but unfortunately , that was it . The latter half of the journey became a road trip movie which seeked answers , coupled with Hollywood's preoccupation of having to explain and show everything , leaving little to your imagination since everything was spelt out . While the story's not at fault , the way it's presented made this look like a standard mystery thriller , without the mystery , and without the thrills . And the finale was a little lacklustre as it seemed to be styled in Final Destination fashion , making it look like it had no more rabbits to pull out of the hat . The Eye had plenty of neat visual effects , and although there are some beautiful stunts involving glass shards and the walking through of objects , special effects alone do not make a horror movie spine-chilling . Looks like there's some major sty in this eye .
A Nutshell Review : Casanova	Hollywood has depicted many legendary lovers in one way or another , from Don Juan to Valentino , and this time , Venetian playboy Casanova gets the big screen treatment in the form of Hollywood " It " boy Heath Ledger playing the title role , with much aplomb . Hollywood's Casanova , set in the 18th Century , isn't a very serious film , taking its cues from 90s styled period productions like The Three Muskateers ( which also starred Oliver Platt ) and Man in the Iron Mask ( with ex-Hollywood " It " boy Leonardo DiCaprio ) . Casanova , as we learn , lacks mama's love , as he gets abandoned while she sets off with her unseen lover , but not before she vowed to return , and therefore bringing to our attention that his view of love is probably screwed to begin with . He sees women as conquests , and if Geishas can stop a man in his tracks with just one look , Casanova can bed thousands of women with his sweet nothings , and I mean nothings . Becoming the god of fornication brings about infamy to his name , until he has to salvage it by settling down with the right women , or face the church's wrath . While setting his sights on probably the last virgin in Venice ( yes , the image of Virgin Mary did come on screen ) , he's also attracted by the strong willed Francesca Bruni ( Sienna Miller ) , in a role that personifies feminism . She cross-dresses as a man to get to educational institutions , writes under a pseudonym to express her thoughts on the modern woman , and holds on to the notion on one true love . Alas , she's engaged to a pork lard merchant from Genoa , Paprizzio ( Oliver Platt ) , whose family wealth is much needed to the Bruni family . There are countless of cheese that added plenty of camp to the characters , and stretched was the notion of mistaken identities like a grand Venetian Masquerade , as Casanova schemes his way to get past the Church and women to get to his prize - Franscesca . Certain scenes seemed implausible , like American Pie styled antics in the grand ball , as we see Casanova wriggle his way out of tight situations he puts himself in . But the Catholic Church perhaps got the most flak , like the depiction of horny nuns , dim-witted investigators ( Jeremy Irons sleepwalking through his role as an Inspector Closeau clone ) , and having strange powers like the restoration of a woman's virginity . Corruption too prevails , as the Papal Office seemed eager to strike shady deals in order to further its cause . The movie has its moments , but not enough to carry the entire movie through . It stuck to safe predictable formula to entertain , and offers nothing much in its censored version shown here . Good probably for a boring weekend , and if you want to check Heath out to compare with his role in the other Oscar heavyweight movie .
A Nutshell Review : Portrait of a Lady Faraway	This movie marks my first Iranian film viewing , thanks for this year's SIFF focus on Arabian cinema . You might be curious as to why I chose this film amongst the selection on offer . Remember Fly By Night 2005 ? Before we came up with The Undecided , we actually considered a short film which resembled the synopsis of this movie . My interest was piqued , and so I bought a ticket . What did I think of it ? Honestly , I thought our short film , if we had done it , would have turned out to be more interesting . No , I'm not being shameless , This movie started off very strongly , given the setting of the premise , but then it degenerated into what I always deem as a cop out - the open ended , was-it-a-dream cliché . A lonely elderly man , Ahmed , finds that a woman had left her intentions for suicide on his answering machine , together with instructions and an address , and approximate time during which she will end her life . He decides on a whim , and out of curiosity , to seek out this woman . His intentions would be to save her , then again , it was never told . At the address , he doesn't find the woman , but instead found a friend of the woman , and they embark on a journey together to look for the suicide victim . You can get a good glimpse of Iran in their travels , before the movie starts to slow and get bogged down by wondering how to weave all the subplots and end them in a coherent fashion . I'm never a fan of movies which try to take art-house twists and suggest dreams or leaving it too open ended without a hint of a reason . However , the complex visuals make this interesting to watch , and the edgy soundtrack was good enough to hold my attention , despite it being extremely loud so as to vibrate the entire cinema hall .
A Nutshell Review : I Do , I Do	I first saw Adrian Pang on the big screen when I was still in the army , during one of our nights off where we managed to catch a Singapore movie ( back then , Singapore movies were rare , and not to mention suffers from low attendances because of the misconception that locally made movies are bad ) , and I was tickled by his portrayal as the Ah Beng who aspires to be the king of disco in Forever Fever . Fast forward to today , Adrian is based back in Singapore , and has been a regular on local television , from acting to hosting , and gaining a reputation as a funnyman in addition to Gurmit Singh . In between he has also managed cameos in movies like Spy Game , and it's no surprise that he was picked to star in another movie , this time by Jack Neo in I Do , I Do , opposite top compere and host at that time , Sharon Au . I Do , I Do is a typical Jack Neo movie , tackling topical issues of the day , this time with the worrying trend of single Singaporeans taking too long to get hitched , and to repopulate our numbers . Falling into this category , I recall plenty of noise with regards to this , from the newspapers , to television , to even nagging parents , and it is no doubt that Jack , the commercial film director that he is , would have picked up the buzz and made a romantic comedy out of it . And in typical Jack Neo fashion , you'd come to expect the predictability of recycled criticisms of the government ( which had a scene with Jack as an MP , good for only one thing ) and social commentaries worked into the plot , which is more or less what you hear from coffeeshops . Starting with a one-sided breakup of an infatuation , Liu Wenhui ( Sharon Au ) made it clear to Lee Ah Peng ( Adrian Pang ) that she sees no future in their relationship , given their difference in status and having no " Feelings " for him . The story then tracks Ah Peng's tactics into wooing his lady love back , and along the way , the main obstacle comes in the form of a new ABC colleague Chen Jianfeng ( Allan Wu , current host of the Amazing Race Asia Edition ) . It's predictable stuff , clearly fluffly with implausible plot development , totally losing the plot towards the end , as it plays out as short comedic skits being glued together , some not being funny at all . Typical in a Jack Neo film , you can count on a series of songs being composed for the movie , and used as montages for plot summarization . As always there are scenes set in coffee shops and hawker centers , and dialogue and cameo appearances played just for laughs , like the appearances of " Brother Hui " and Mark Lee , regulars in Neo's troupe , and the Lao Zar Bo also seen from Neo's latest 2007 movie Just Follow Law . But for a lacklustre movie with its key message focused on not giving up the forest for a flower , it's compensated for its revelatory scene at the end , after you have to course through cliché after cliché in its storyline . The nifty special effects were a treat too , though it does also get cheesy at times when coupled with song and dance . The Code 3 DVD from Scorpio East contains decent audio and visual transfers , which does not offer you any choice of formants or languages . You only have a scene selection from 8 chapters , as well as subtitles available in either English or Chinese . It's relatively bare bones , and I'm not sure why to date locally pressed DVDs still call standard fares like the inclusion of theatrical trailers and useless photo stills " Special Features " . Just so you know , the trailer runs 2mins 10s , and the photo gallery contains 20 stills . Hardly what I call special .
A Nutshell Review : Babel	If my memory serves me well , my knowledge of The Towel of Babel is from the Bible , where it was said that men at one time were speaking one common language , and aspired to build a tower so high that it would reach the Heavens . For some reason , God decided to pour cold water on the massive project , by dispersing everyone on Earth to far corners , and have us humans speak multiple languages , so that overnight , we couldn't understand one another , and therefore , the Tower project had to be abandoned . Babel just triumphed at this year's Golden Globes by walking away with the Best Drama award , which The Departed was touted to win , but I guess having a movie which is a remake win the award , is akin to saying " Infernal Affairs , you guys can trounce our multi-million dollar epics anytime " . Babel follows a similar formula to other acclaimed movies such as Crash and Syriana , which take on a multiple angle , multiple story , with multiple intertwined characters all running along in the fragmented narrative , with the story arcs all linked to a common theme . With Crash and Syriana , the themes were clear and simple . With Babel however , it lived up to its issue of communications . In a bad way that is . Babel probably wanted to be bringing across the message of the importance of communication , and miscommunication , but it turned out to live the message of the latter instead . Perhaps it wanted to elevate itself more into a thinking man's movie , but really , it's much ado about nothing . For movies which relied on narrative gimmicks such as this , it belongs to the same category as my previous movie review for Haven . Entertaining wannabe , but not quite there yet . Written and directed by the same team who did 21 Grams ( director Alenjandro Gonzalez Inarritu and writer Guillermo Arriaga , which probably explains why thanks went out to Naomi Watts and Sean Penn ) , it's not all that bad , but you rue at its missed opportunities to really become something great . There are four arcs here - the first being a Moroccan farmer and his children , the second an American couple in a life-and-death crisis , the third a Mexican housekeeper and the children of her employers , and lastly , a look into a Japanese deaf mute's relationships with people around her , which probably is the one with the least relations with the others , but had the most potential in bringing out the theme . In all the stories , you see the attempts at communication , or lack thereof due to language , but you notice many a times , that language itself serves not as a barrier so long as the willingness to address another person is there . The American couple ( possibly the big name stars in the movie - Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett ) with zero language barriers , yet faced with insurmountable difficulties in understanding each other , or in the deaf mute's case , the constant brushing away of parental concern , and of course , the inherent difficulty in not being able to speak or hear another person . In fact , in all these stories , it's more about the cry for help , in various sense . The Moroccan farmer sensing futility in the heavy handedness of the law , the American couple literally begging for help in a land in which they do not speak the language , and in their ill attitudes of blaming everyone else , of the Mexican housekeeper getting her charges stuck in a nightmare situation , contradicting her many years of faithful service , and of course , the Japanese arc , the deaf mute undergoing peer pressure in getting laid , and we question the reasons for her sexual promiscuity . And I couldn't help it but laugh at the various televised news reports in the movie , that the media is always quick to jump to conclusions , and in doing so , helps nobody at all . There are familiar actors in the movie , but don't go expecting any to pick up any awards anytime soon , as their roles do not offer them a chance to shine , especially not in a crowded ensemble like this with little room for much character development . Keen eyed viewers might recognized Gael Garcia Bernal from another movie now showing - The King , and Dakota Fanning fans will get a chance to see her sister Elle Fanning in action , albeit in a very small role , most of the time asleep . What could have set tongues wagging would be Rinko Kikuchi's role which required full frontal nudity and Sharon Stone-ish moments , but really , there's nothing much to it . My verdict is that Babel is overrated , belonging to that cross narrative wannabe style of storytelling , with actually a very simple story to tell , let down by delivery , traded off for style instead . Don't expect too much from it .
A Nutshell Review : Final Destination 2	The saga continues with Final Destination 2 , where Ali Larter returns as Clear Rivers ( how can you take anyone seriously with a name like that ? ) , in a sequel which rehashes the same premise of premonition and therefore death avoidance , and the survivors this time round getting picked off one by one in similar violent fashion fit only for the screens . The one with the powers this time is Kimberly Corman ( A . J . Cook ) , who along with her buddies are going on a road trip . However , she sees a violent accident along the highway they were supposed to travel on , and prevents herself , her mates and a whole host of drivers in other vehicles from going on that ill fated strip , so before you know it , they defeat death's design for them . But Final Destination says death will return to get the souls already earmarked , and here , the same drill applies . Despite the filmmakers here being a totally different team from the original , there are bouts of acknowledgements all around that ties the second movie to the first . Like the setting of the film exactly a year after the first , the return of Ali Larter , and a realization that all the characters here have indirect ties to those in the original . It might sound like a bad case of coincidence , but this is movieland after all . The highway pileup is interesting enough , though the jarring censored bits in this locally pressed DVD made the best bloody bits unavailable . And there were new rules and conditions shared in this sequel , which is probably a good thing to prevent it from being just an extension of the first . What made it a little more riveting was that the characters here experience that feeling that nothing is worse than having to know you have to die , and then waiting for it to happen . The first had most of them pretty much clueless , or much against the ridiculous idea , but here , the group had that set aside pretty quickly , and nothing is more fearful than waiting for your time to expire . The finale suffered though from needing to meet its self-fulfilling prophecy , but made up for it with its totally wicked ending . It doesn't lead to the third movie ( each can work as a stand alone ) , but for those who did not watch FD1 , this one pretty much summarizes it all for you . The Code 3 DVD by Alliance Entertainment comes with the widescreen edition with Dolby Digital 5 . 1 surround sound . However , remind me not to get a locally pressed DVD when there's expected blood and gore . With movies like these , sadly the gory scenes get censored away , and all you get are frustrating cut scenes and jarring edits . Subtitles are available in English and Chinese , and scene selection is available over 15 chapters . The bonus features are quite scanty , with the teaser trailer ( 1 : 33 ) , 2 music videos - The Blank Theory's Middle of Nowhere ( 4 : 16 ) and The Sounds ' Seven Days a Week ( 3 : 20 ) , and a series of deleted scenes . The deleted scenes were non-selectable , and instead of having split up the scenes , you can only view them all together . A total of 5 scenes are lumped into one 9 : 52 feature , featuring the initial interview at the police station , an extended scene with the mortician , looking for Isabella Hudson , a short scene where Nora was handed a cellphone at the elevator , and additional scenes in the truck en route to the hospital with an extended hospital scene . Decent efforts in visual and audio transfers , but short on the extras . Gone are the audio commentaries from the filmmakers , would sure like to listen to how they did the highway scene .
A Nutshell Review : Where in the World is Osama Bin Laden	If this movie knows where he is , there'll be international headlines made , and the filmmakers will get that US$25 million ( or more ? ) bounty that is placed on his head . Of course it will be silly to presume that this film can find the answers to the multi-million dollar question , or even come close to it , so just what was the intention ? Morgan Spurlock isn't new to controversy , having burst onto the documentary scene with his real life gorging on MacDonald's for every meal in order to drive home the point that junk food really does junk your well being . So for this new film of his , it stems from his desire to seek out the world's # 1 wanted man , and ask him just what floats his boat . He may be putting on his jester cap with his somewhat hilarious introduction , but looking at the preparation with vaccination and even attending some terrorism survival course , he's quite dead set in his mission to find that elusive man . Until of course you realize that he's hitting all the relative safe havens for the most part , before venturing into the more likely places in Afghanistan and Pakistan . But what he seeks to unearth is the Middle East's attitudes towards Americans , and it seems that the common consensus is that while they have nothing against the people , almost everyone that Spurlock chose to showcase , has issues with the foreign policies . And from interviews with the average Joes , they sure have issues with politics at home more than those that are from abroad . Spurlock also takes opportunity to slam the US foreign policy , and does so through a hilarious animated sequence involving Uncle Sam and the Statue of Liberty herself , in what would be a realistic case of sleeping with the wrong bedfellows . Bringing the camera from Morocco to Saudi Arabia , and interview people from both the state of Palestine and Israel , what he had presented were compelling arguments for and against , as well as plenty of moderate views that seek to debunk the bulk of western media who find delight in demonizing those in the Middle East . Through the looking glass peering at their everyday lives , the film comes to present the basic need for survival and providing for one's family , no matter one's geography , country , religion and culture . Naturally there were some feathers ruffled , especially when dealing with closed cultures who clam up , or intolerant folks who have no qualms in using violence , but in general , this documentary serves to be rather tame . Yes it's gimmicky in its title , and half the time you're not sure whether MXXSpulock will take that plunge and really head to where he will likely find some inkling of positive leads , but what it had presented instead , is something more powerful that this world really needs to reach out and have everyone taking a more tolerant attitude and to understand one another a lot more , to avoid conflict . This should be a world without strangers , and the documentary managed to show just a glimmer of that hope .
A Nutshell Review : The Body ( DVD , 2001 )	The premise of this movie seemed interesting enough , although to some , it might be blasphemy . What if one day , the body ( or rather , skeletal remains ) of Christ was discovered in a similarly described tomb , with tell tale signs of the crucification , the spear wound , injuries inflicted by the crown of thorns , and the tomb dating back to 1 AD ? This film looks at the possible destruction of the faith which hinges on the one man's resurrection as God . Olivia Williams plays an Israeli Sharon Golban , who discovers this body in a tomb she excavates . Suspecting she could be on to something big , she calls for a priest to confirm her suspicion . Soon , word gets around , rumours get spread . The Vatican dispatches one of their priests , Father Gutierrez ( played by Antonio Banderas ) , and ex-military intelligence officer , to investigate and proof or disproof the claim . While science points to the fact that the body may be that of Christ , it gives a chilling insight into what could make , or break , a religion . Is it blind faith that keeps it going , even if there should come a day when science can ultimately disproof certain theories and events ? Here , discovering that body has serious implications because of the repercussions that the major event in Christ's life have on Christians . But what diluted this film from its primary premise is the introduction of Hollywood subplots to jazz up production , like having the Vatican embroiled in political intrigue , and having terrorist organizations taking an interest in the findings as well . It's a relatively low budgeted production , but one which raised thought provoking questions even if the delivery somehow got distracted in attempts to become a bigger movie in terms of action sequences . I think this film probably would be a good prologue to the controversies that surround next year's Da Vinci Code . Code 1 DVD contains " special features " , but nothing out of the ordinary besides the usual trailers , audio , and scene selections .
A Nutshell Review : The Break-Up	The real life relationship between Vince Vaughn and Jennifer Aniston probably casted a cynical shadow over this movie , given its ominously sounding title about the end of relationships . Not that it's played out in an unbelievable manner , but this is a classic case of real life causing an unwanted effect on reel life . In a courtship that spanned up until the end of the opening credits , that's familiar grounds to the real / reel couple as we see them so utterly in love with each other . And it's not before long that the lack of nine lemons became the spark of a heated , long drawn argument . It's the littliest things that always matter and provide the catalyst for unwanted trouble , and the lack of appreciation somehow almost always provide ample ammunition to the start of a cold war . This movie had the effect of trotting the fine line between the two parties , though I must say that I stand on the side of Aniston's Brooke , rather than Vaughn's Gary . Perhaps that's because I've weaned myself off video games . Anyway , from a spectator's point of view without taking sides because of sexes , her requests ( if you call them that ) seem reasonable enough , in any relationship which is about give and take . So if you were to ask me who's right or wrong , I've already made my stand . But while the movie dwells on the confusion of the situation made worse by a common living space and mortgage ( money has to do with everything , no doubt ) , it's some same old grounds that many romance movies had already tread upon , exploring the pain of breaking up and losing someone you had taken for granted , except that because of the premise of this movie , it had to be played out in a more extensive manner . It takes a long look at the games people play to get back at each other , and the saying of things that you don't really mean in the heat of the moment , the skewing of meanings , and the explosion after keeping what you abhor about someone inside you for so long ( that's for keeping things under the carpet during good times ) . There's also quite a realistic take on the running to friends and family for emotional support , and the difficulty of being caught in the middle of things especially when you're friends of both . Between the two leads , the pain of the break can be most visibly seen in Jennifer Aniston , and there are no doubts as to where she could have drawn the strength from to play her emotional wrecking scenes . Vince Vaughn again looked like he sleepwalked through a role ( not that it mattered , given the character ) , but I thought that his portrayal didn't really bring out that tinge of regret or believable sadness at the whole event . Can you become friends with the person you broke up with ? Probably . How deep that friendship can be will depend on the circumstances behind the breakup , and of course how willing each party is to bury the past and carry on as friends . It could be in an extreme superficial manner , which I would think now , why bother at all ? The city of Chicago provided the backdrop of another recent movie - The Lake House , in a story about love and hope . Here , it turned the other way and became the city where love and hope had faded , and those who have undergone a break up of sorts can experience the bittersweet aftertaste . Did I mention the almost unrecognizable Justin Long's awfully fugly take as an effeminate co-worker ? Ewww . . . .
A Nutshell Review : Gu Gu The Cat	I guess we've seen enough canine movies coming out from Japan , that it's now the turn for felines to get the spotlight . I would have half expected the plot to follow the usual formula , if not for the fact that Gu Gu the Cat actually became the side show of the plot , despite being the titular character , and worse , a replacement cat in fact . Based on the novel by Yumiko Oshima , the story centers on Kojima ( Kyoko Koizumi ) , a successful manga storyteller who suffers from a dearth of inspiration when her pet cat Ce Va dies of an illness suddenly , upon completion of her special edition masterpiece . Kojima lapses into depression , but she has her assistants and pals like Naomi ( Juri Ueno ) to thank in keeping her spirits up , especially when Kojima herself starts to find parallels between her own life , and that of her pet Ce Va . Then comes Gu Gu whom she adopts , and life may seem a little better given the antics of this cute cat . However , this cat film , unlike the many dog ones out there , doesn't focus too much on the cat itself , unlike the love that man's best friend often get on screen . Perhaps cats find it unnatural to be performing in front of the camera unlike the dogs , though you can hear audible adoration of cuteness each time they turn on the charm in front of the camera . The filmmakers here know just what the best angles are , and the perfect situations to put the cats in for that all-too-familiar poses to have kids go into a frenzy harbouring hopes to get their own pet cat after the movie . But such scenes are few and far between . I'm not too sure about the film being touted as a comedy , because I found it to be very much a tragedy for the most parts of the film . Losing one's inspirational compass in life is nothing to laugh about , or worse , choosing not to do anything about it . The mood is constantly morose , with Kojima brooding most of the time , and Naomi getting herself into some relationship complications . It's the story about these lead two characters and their friends ( see if you can spot Miyuki Oshima from Handsome Suit ) , and less so about the cat , nor adopting the cat's point of view of events unravelling . What I found a little irritating were the moments when this American English teacher Paul Weinberg ( Marty Friedman ) who appears as the narrator of sorts , breaking the fourth wall and goes into explanation mode , or even documentary styled prose , such as introducing some of the hot spots to visit in the city of Tokyo . The narrative thus became jarring each time he comes on , and while he has an important role to play given some revelation in the last act , it was still a little peculiar why that scene was included , because it gave the story an additional , needless direction into the third world , and was a little cheesy too in seeking some closure . I suppose this film would only appeal to cat lovers , because for a dog person like me , this film didn't manage to convince me that a cat movie will work , nor did it raise my appreciation for the felines . If only a more compelling story would win me over otherwise , but perhaps it's more to do with the issues that the female of the species would be able to identify with a lot more , since the prerequisite illness in the tale was geared toward that .
A Nutshell Review : 3 Needles	Released in Singapore to coincide with World Aids Day ( 1 Dec ) , it actually took me this long to cast my eyes on the movie , no thanks to weird and limited screenings at one or two theatres . Perhaps it's because of the subject matter , about that disease which , as far as I can recall , doesn't get named at all in the movie , which probably won't sit down well with audiences who are up for the latest feel good movies in town this holiday season . Written and directed by Thom Fitzgerald , 3 Needles comprises of 3 distinct stories set in 3 distinct continents - Asia , North America and Africa , but looks into a common killer disease that is plaguing our world today . It takes a look at common fears of those who have the disease , and those from high risk groups who fear of getting the disease , as well as the bad practices and schemes as perpetrated by the greed of men , eager to sacrifice all to make a quick buck . The story arcs , in my opinion , were not weaved together to form one long narrative . Rather , it looked as if 3 short stories were glued together at the seams to make up the runtime sufficient to call itself a feature film . The first had an illegal blood trafficker , Jin Ping ( Lucy Liu ) , milking all that its worth in a small Chinese village , and for US$5 per packet of blood , managed to entice villagers to undergo unlicensed blood donation drives for a few dollars . Next , we have a porn star Denys ( Shawn Ashmore , Iceman in X-Men2 and 3 ) who , while aware he has the disease , covers up this knowledge through tampering with the provision of blood samples , fearing otherwise he would lose his job in the adult entertainment industry . And lastly , a group of nuns ( Chloe Sevigny , Olympia Dukakis , Sandra Oh ) journey to a South African village to assist in the care of the villages , only to have Sister Clara ( Sevigny ) deciding whether it's worth compromising her beliefs , in order to help those she cares for . When watching these stories , you'll feel a sense of injustice as the characters do what is obviously morally incorrect . You feel angry at the way blood is trafficked without regard to safety and basic hygiene , you feel disgusted at how selfishness clouds the mind into deceit , and the better to go with others rather than oneself , and you feel sorry for the way sacrifices have to be made , while wishing eternal damnation to those who choose to exploit situations for their own gratification . As a movie , if its objectives is to make you feel for the issues presented , then it's done its part . However , as I mentioned earlier , I find it rather strange that HIV or AIDS is never mentioned explicitly . Could it be there this " disease which shall not be named " is following its self - fulfilling prophecy amongst men that it is shameful to be infected , and the misconception that victims were actually asking for it when they engage in risky activities , to follow the common attitude to hush it all up , and choose to disbelieve the bringing forward of the expiry date on their lives ? As a movie , the presentation is rather plain , and I thought that the narrative probably would be better if the stories were somehow spliced together neatly so that it flows nicely from one arc to the next , rather than opting for the lazy obvious way to segregate them . While nothing controversial is discussed , there are a few scenes that will raise a few eyebrows , and the best amongst those involves a very pregnant Lucy LIu in a field . I don't think I've seen any such scenes in graphic detail , and definitely not in the manner presented . Beats the one which is most talked about involving Chloe Sevigny . It doesn't offer you new insights into the disease , but exhibits on common fears from both sides , and offers the dramatization of unscrupulous acts which help to propagate the problem on a much larger scale . If you're intrigued to watch it , you have to do so soon as I suspect it wouldn't last another week at the screens . Look out too for the local actor , Ng Chin Han ( from the local television " comedy " series dud Masters of the Sea ) in quite a meaty role as a Chinese soldier .
A Nutshell Review : The Sniper	If not for the picture scandal , this film would have been released about a year ago , and would likely have solidified Edison Chen's position as box office draw given his stellar performance in crime-action flicks like Dog Eat Dog and Blood Brothers , and pop idol fare such as Initial D . But we know what had happened over the span of a year , though I suppose the decision to hold this film back would have helped it in increasing the curiosity surrounding this , given his last / first performance since the scandal . After all , the producers have to make the best out of the situation . His character in Sniper is a typical Edison Chen persona ? young , brash and impatient , toeing the line of the good and possessing that streak of arrogance . As OJ , he aspires to be the top shooter amongst the SDU Sniper Unit , and is mentored by the team leader Hartman ( Richie Jen , who also starred as a sharpshooter in Johnnie To's Exiled ) who discovered him during a mission , and is impressed by the upstart . Given the attributes of a sniper ? confidence , decisiveness and ruthlessly accurate , egos are swelled and clashes are part of the game , where while it's a team effort , you can't deny those strong individual desire to excel above the rest . The unfinished business of the earlier generation comes back to haunt the team in the form of the disgraced , and once top shooter Lincoln ( Huang Xiaoming ) , who in a rash , negligent act gets sentenced to imprisonment , and upon release swears revenge on his once buddies . For a moment there was a tussle for the apprentice ala Star Wars style , where the young one found his training under his mentor too stifling and never appreciative of his abilities , and on the other , darker side , becomes seduced by sexier techniques which seem to be the path toward instant results and glory . But alas the story unfortunately becomes quite fluffy , with the dramatic moments just excuses to string the action sequences together . The runtime under 90 minutes also provided a feeling that the film has been super summarized , given a lot of sub plots being introduced briefly , but never really reaching second base , especially with the relationships of the snipers and the opposite sex . You would wonder why they had even bothered to devote time to this aspect , just to know that the crazed nut Lincoln is terribly infatuated with his girlfriend , OJ's girlfriend is a one scene wonder , and Hartman's estranged wife lies comatose most of the time , waking only to shed tears and raise her voice . I guess in a sniper's life , the only " wife " they take care of , as in the prologue , is their rifles , to protect it with their life or professionally , they're screwed . Dante Lam's star has been shining rather brightly , and I have enjoyed his recent effort in Beast Stalker . Here , he crafted some wonderful sniper action scenes without resorting too much on the looking-through-the-scope syndrome , striking a balance in being instructional , yet adequately paced to be tension-filled . What I appreciated is his fusion of that psychological element a sniper brings to the table , of the ability of how one man well hidden , and well trained , can take out a platoon or company , because of that element of fear that is introduced . Too bad for the many cardboard supporting villains and victims though , and that strange need to CG some dark clouds and fake lightning to drape many scenes . Undoubtedly the show belongs to the ensemble cast in oozing machismo as they do battle , but you can't help but to feel that it is Edison who's pulling in the crowds in what could be his last hurrah . In a cruel twist of irony , his character here can't wait to talk to and provide snide remarks to the media , which is a far cry in the real situation he's in now . One can only wonder how things would have turned out if not for that moment of accidental folly .
A Nutshell Review : Dance of the Dragon	There are three distinct characters here , each played by someone of different nationality , and had in their own fiefdom , crafted scenes within their own comfort zone , but when put together , seem to have awkwardness stamped all over it . I shall begin with the strongest . This is no doubt Jang Hyuk's vehicle , as he stars as Tae , a Korean whom as a boy , thanks to his mother who took him to a dance performance , fell in love with the art , and vow to pursue this dream of his despite not knowing how to , and facing great opposition from his father , who deemed it a sissy sport and would have preferred he picked up martial arts as a hobby . So when he reached adulthood , and with savings from his factory job , he bids his parents goodbye , and off he comes to Singapore to attend a dance audition . American Idol style no doubt , with artificial caustic remarks being thrown about by a lacklustre panel of three , but not before having a Singapore Tourism Board approved montage of the usual Singapore Skyline , Esplanade , Raffles Place et al shots that always plague every Singapore-based movie . And from here , let's move on to Fann's Emi Lim , whose signature is so easy to copy , I could've written plenty of cheques in her name . A has been dance instructor whose weak ankle meant a halt in competition , her retirement at the top of her game allowed her to sustain a school with plenty of students who can groove ( much better than her of course ) , while she harbours the thought of one day returning to the ballroom . Taken in by the strikingly good looking Tae , coupled with the fact that he's a virgin ( of dance ) , she relishes the challenge of unlearning what he had learnt , without partner and teacher , and I tell you , always cock teases him so much so that he begins to fall for her . Alas Emi has a beau who doesn't pay her any attention , and Jason Scott Lee fills in this jealous boyfriend role with flared nostrils and wide hard-staring eyes with aplomb . As Cheng , who's also a has-been given his injured knee ( a lot of injured has beens in this movie , and this pair's like made one for the other ) , his dojo , set up opposite the dance school along the same Wong Street , is running in the red , and he deals with shady characters like Lim Kay Tong's in order to keep his school afloat . Not happy with the good vibes between teacher and student , he tends to show off a lot of his martial arts capability in a bid to scare off the newbie dancer , only to set up an inevitable showdown between the two in due course . To the movie's credit , the story's quite coherent , except that it relied on a number of clichés to carry the movie through , and not necessarily for the better . There were plenty of superficial subplots and elements that could have been developed further given the running time of close to 2 hours , but instead there were a number of slow moving scenes which while nice to look at , didn't provide depth any more than to establish some background for the characters . Amongst all , I liked Tae's story best , well since he's the main character and had adequate screen time dedicated , where the relationship between him and his father was one of the strongest in the movie with so much meant despite so little being said . Besides , I always enjoyed characters who can learn by observation or from books and videos , and in doing so , lack the basis of understanding which can sometimes plague their execution . And there are a couple of really creative and unexpected development which I thought I had it nailed , but was wrong . Which of course is a plus point . But the more important question here is , can the leads dance ? Scenes of dancing together were limited , and for the most parts Fann and Jang Hyuk danced solo . They were given plenty of opportunity to air the armpits , and the filmmakers were smart to have spliced little set pieces together rather than have dances in one continuous motion and scene , since this will definitely expose plenty of shortcomings especially for Fann's Emi , supposedly being World Class and all . What was worse , was the sudden inject of the song Hero by Enrique Iglesias , which I thought was somewhat inappropriate for a ballroom dance sequence , but I suppose fitted the scene at the time . Thankfully though , the rest of the score for the movie was beautiful and memorable , the same one in which you can hear in the trailer . If memory serves me correct , almost every scene had a score to accompany the visuals , making it a rather musical film to sit through as well , though at times you have to grit your teeth as Emi seem to have a knack of spouting hokey dance philosophy . Production wise , I would liken it to last year's Cages , which set itself in a Singapore that's of its own artificial creation . Dance of the Dragon is not all bad , just that it lacked some amount of heart and detail to truly make it excellent . There's no doubt fans of Fann and Jang Hyuk will turn up in droves to catch this movie ( like in today's screening ) , though there are also those who decided that enough is enough and had to walk out . In my opinion , this movie shouldn't have warranted that , but just don't set your sights and expectations too high in wanting to watch a movie with superb dancing or martial arts , of which it has neither , but took effort to craft believable scenes as best as it could .
A Nutshell Review : Blood and Bones	I'd watch Blood and Bones for one reason , and that's for ' Beat ' Takeshi Kitano . Local audiences will probably remember him in recent roles from Battle Royale , Brother , and Zatoichi . Here , he plays Jyombion Kim , one of the early pioneer Koreans who emigrated to Japan . From the start , the narration tells us the story of this one man and his life , from a teenager , until his deathbed . And he's a violent man at that , always with a drink in hand , which brings out the worst in him . If he wants to copulate , he makes sure he does . If he wants to whack the living daylights out of a person , or family member , he does too . He's Mr Domestic Violence personified , with cruel beatings to get his way . From opening a fishcake business , to loan-sharking , his aloof , and philandering ways created his extended dysfunctional family , their trials and tribulations . He is an independent , wandering soul , and will probably provide for an interesting character study . Besides the nice cinematography , the beautiful soundtrack is probably what made it easy to go through this excruciating slow paced movie . If you're not careful , you might nod off at time . The material might be uncomfortable for some ; though there was violence , there isn't much gore . Weaved throughout the show at various points , is the look into the treatment of these Korean immigrants in Japan , the discrimination and difficulties faced in living in another's homogeneous society . There are many characters in the movie - sons , daughters , in-laws , half-siblings , wives , mistresses , that you'll probably be able to create a neat family tree if you link all of them on paper . But don't expect too much story on the ensemble of characters , most of them get their focus at various points , then are quietly dispatched to the background . It's an awfully sad tale , nothing in it that will make you cheer . But there is something to cheer about the movie though , and that it is shown here uncut and unedited . Meaning you get to see it as it was intended , including male genitalia .
A Nutshell Review : Three Kingdoms : Resurrection of the Dragon	Sad to say , I've only read the epic Romance of the Three Kingdom novels once in my lifetime to date , and an abridged English version at that . My only other contacts with this classic Chinese literature is with the China television series that I had to struggle with because the initial episodes came without English subtitles ( i . e . akin to watching a Shakespearean play for the very first time and marvelling at the richness in language used ) , and of course , the Koei computer game that so many peers of my generation would have played at one time or another . And of course , one of my favourite general characters , was Zhao Zilong . Outside of the Liu - Bei-Guan-Yu-Zhang-Fei brotherhood together with their unsurpassed military strategist Zhuge Liang at their side , Zhao Yun had qualities like valour which I thought was exemplary , and an episode , though taken on a whole new spin in presentation where he goes rescue the infant son of Liu Bei , to demonstrate that , gets its fair share of airtime in this movie . As I mentioned in an earlier review of An Empress and The Warriors , we're getting plenty of such period war movies coming out in recent months , culminating perhaps with John Woo's highly anticipated Red Cliff , but amongst the recent releases , Three Kingdoms draws first blood . But I suspect that Red Cliff will probably blow all competition out of the water going by the trailer , though the final product remains to be proved this Summer . Three Kingdoms rode on its star power to carry its relatively bland storyline forward , with Andy Lau as Zilong , Maggie Q as nemesis Cao Ying ( who's male in the novel ) , Sammo Hung as newly created character / narrator Luo Pingan , and a whole host of supporting acts in Vanness Wu , Andy On , and even Ti Lung in a surprisingly nicely presented Guan Yu . You cannot fault the designs of the sets , the costumes ( though of course some would complain it looks so Japanese ) , and I thought the weapons were eye-poppingly beautiful and intricately designed - you just have to take a look at Guan Yu's Green Dragon Crescent Blade ! It's impossible to try and distill the entire classics into a 3-hour long movie , or even a trilogy would do its richness injustice , let alone a 2 hour one . While the runtime for John Woo's movies ( in two parts ? ) is still not finalized , at least his focus is on one key , primary battle . Resurrection of the Dragon's focus is on one man - Zhao Zilong , and in doing so , fairly summarized his tale from beginning to end , with plenty of artistic and dramatic license taken of course , where purist will probably have a field day discussing all the inaccuracies and departure from the source material . However in doing this , we do get to see familiar characters sharing the stage , albeit some given very little screen time . And I don't think it's me who's feeling quite jaded from the clanging of weapons against armour . Here the one on one action scenes between characters are wonderfully choreographed by Sammo Hung himself , but the quick cuts , close ups , tight shots and dizzying camera work marred it all . The battle sequences were worse , with fake blood splattered all over , and the usual hacking of limbs and demonstration of superhuman strength by its chief characters . It did offer some simple philosophical gems to ponder over in between all the chaotic fighting , but really the feeling you get out of the battle sequences , was that it was like a distant cousin to 300 styled choreography . Don't expect any depth injected in most characters here too , as you can smell the plot revelation a mile away from the get go . I thought Maggie Q was wasted with a flower vase role that took less than 20 minutes of screen time just to snarl nastily , while Sammo Hung really relegated himself to the backseat choreographing the action . Andy Lau , a real life hero , was probably the top draw here in putting bums in seats , but even he can't save the story from having to insert a needless hint at unattainable romance because of Zilong's sense of duty and obligation to serve his country , putting it first before ( the starting of ) family . On the whole , it's aesthetically beautiful but ringing really hollow . Let's hope John Woo's Red Cliff , with the return of some of our beloved characters from Romance of the Three Kingdoms , does some justice in its film adaptation of a key battle , even if we have to contend with flying doves and slow-motion handling and twirling of swords . Keep your fingers crossed !
A Nutshell Review : Havoc	I could start off this review in Singlish by saying " This movie damn havoc " , and it just about sums it up accurately and nicely . Sex , drugs and gangsterism from the hop is hip culture , this movie attempts to provide a social commentary about the lives of super rich teenagers in the Palasades , wasting their bored lives away by trying to emulate another culture they think is cool , the wannabes who chose not to conform to the norms , but try their darndest best to be one in the ' hood . Anne Hathaway assumes the lead role as Allison Lang , a wide-eyed teenager whose language is as beautiful as her appearance . Having her material needs satisfied by her ultra rich parents , but living in essentially an empty home , her friends and her seek out the alternative lifestyle which promises loads of fun and excitement - drugs , drink and fights . Being associated with a gang brings about some perceived self esteem and self worth . But where do you draw the line when you're always seeking another high moment ? A journey to " downtown " - the areas of the have-nots , where seedy bogeymen reside in , areas where parents warn their children to stay away from , sparks a discovery of a wonderland for Allison and her best friend Emily ( Bijou Phillips ) , as they make repeated trips to be amongst the real boys in the ' hood , to hang out , chill , and do whatever them wannabes have done at a magnitude of 10 . It's a primal attraction and sexual tension between the girls and the men ( not the boys they hang out with , who pee in their pants when faced with real danger - acting cool is not cool ) , and between Allison and Hector ( Freddy Rodriguez ) . But like all revelations , sometimes it takes the hard way to learn a lesson , and the movie picked up on this rather rapidly in the last third , once they got enticed into playing a game of dice ( with sexual connotations ) in order to be initiated into Hector's gang . Basically , the audience observes the attraction of an alternative lifestyle , of wannabes thinking they can handle it all , and of redemption and change . While it was a surprise to see Michael Biehn in the movie , the movie clearly belonged to Anne Hathaway in her very first attempt to break away from her goody-two-shoes roles like in the Princess Diaries and Ella Enchanted . However , with the M18 rating here , this movie suffered cuts where it really mattered , and a poor edit too at one of the more pivotal scenes which literally screwed up the understanding of what actually happened , only to be told at face value , suggesting the " truth " of the matter , at a later stage . Sometimes I wonder why not release it as R21 , and keep the film intact . Surely Hathaway has fans , but to mutilate the movie to let them in , is a bad decision . It's peculiar to have the movie released this week , up against Singer's SUperman . Maybe some rebellious bored teenagers happen to be the answer to balance the truth and justice that the last son of Krypton embodies ?
A Nutshell Review : Final Destination 3	I wonder why I missed the first two movies of the franchise , given that I'm a fan of gore ( the bloodier the merrier ) . But you need not have watched the first two movies in order to enjoy Final Destination 3 , as it's pretty much a stand-alone movie utilizing the same premise . Which is when someone actually somehow foresees the future , where something tragically fatal will happen to him / her . They pull out from the situation , and following along ( whether they like it or not ) are a few others . The tragedy happens , and they all escape death . Death is naturally upset , and continues to kill off the characters who were supposed to die . But of course , if you can cheat death again , you're off the hook . You know you're in for a good , satisfactory ride when the opening credits are stuffed with relative unknowns , meaning they are the fodder who will die in ways imagined by the writer . Co-writer and director James Wong , who was involved in the original movie , returns to extend his vision of the franchise . There are numerous references to the earlier movies , like the number 180 which pops up , and also to serve as research material for the characters in FD3 ( hard to imagine that the first movie was SIX years ago ! ) . Nifty special effects are also the hallmark of the FD movies , which bring to life the filmmaker's sadistic vision of deaths in various ways from being fried alive to huge objects becoming giant human-swatters . The movie also sticks to the usual slasher / horror conventions , of knowing that bimbos will die in the most idiotic way ever . Don't go looking for logic in the elaborate setup before character deaths - it's like every implausible element that will impact or contribute towards someone's death , will be looked into . The coincidence might make you shake your head at the sheer audacity of it all , but then , if Death's looking for you , all angles must be covered , and you must die . Like right now . In a fashionably bloody manner to boot , as if to punish you for having cheated initially . Being rated NC-16 here however , meant that certain scenes had to be cut . Strangely , suggestive scenes like a character licking the boobs of a nude woman keychain , and the bimbos stripping down to their birthday suits , get the snip . But the glorious bloodbath ( save one ) get shown uncut . As the show progresses , you get to see more . So I guess if the movie is rated for violence and gore , most nudity will get cut off , and probably vice versa ? One wonders . Does this movie scream sequel again ? Maybe , if the filmmakers can come up with some more creative ways to die , in bloody good fashion , then perhaps the franchise would probably continue . If you're really hard up and stayed until the end , you'll just be rewarded with a maniacal laughter .
A Nutshell Review : The Promotion	One job , two candidates , you know the drill , especially when the offer is one that comes with a better job title , and with it , better renumeration , to move upwards in the corporate ladder , and to gain some foothold in keeping up with the Joneses . The last time I watched a film primarily set in a supermarket was Cashback , and that became one of my favourite films of last year . Alas The Promotion , written and directed by Steve Conrad , had similar flair in telling the story of one man's struggle for economic betterment , but somehow lacked enough depth in material to what is essentially a tired formula . You know , the one-upmanship that two parties having a go at each other , pulling no punches in order to get ahead . Strangely enough , these acts of sabotage are few and far between , and didn't come off as either funny or essential , but more like that of desperation . Seann William Scott can never seem to be able to break out from his jock role , though his Doug Stauber tried hard to carry the movie through by sharing with the audience his hopes and dreams , of being stuck in a dead end routine job with an incompetent boss . Opportunity arose from his employer's franchise opening another outlet , and therein lies his chance for promotion , better salary , and to move out of his current home next door to banjo-merry-makers so that he can make love to his wife Jen ( Jenna Fischer ) in peace . With opportunity comes obstacle , and is personified by John C . Reilly's Richard Welhner from the supermarket's sister company in Canada , and he too is eying that job so that he can feed his family and provide them the nice to haves like various enrichment classes . He has help from a self-help audio book , and honestly , I think those books are a load of bull , and had already made first cut of your money through your purchase of it . Anyway , the crux of the movie laid in the two of them second guessing each other's intention , but all the while when trying to sabotage one another , seem to have conscience prick them all the time , which led to half-hearted attempts without following through . In fact , they seem to pull off more stunts that backfire on themselves , rather than at the other person . It portrays that we are all sensible creatures , and we need not resort to low down and cheap tricks to derail another's rice bowl . That said though the story's very much in lala-land , because the real world out there , just isn't so kind , if at all . Just about everything's predictable in the movie where it's about the length anyone would go to bring home the bacon . Nothing fancy in the movie , but it does have a certain honest though mundane feel about it .
A Nutshell Review : Firewall	I was quite surprised that Massive Attack's Angel was chosen to accompany the opening credits , which consisted for mostly CCTV / voyeuristic shots of a team conducting surveillance on the movements of Harrison Ford's Jack Stanfield and his family . I know it's a cool track , but Angel is perhaps becoming one of the more overused tracks in Hollywood pictures already . But it hints well at what Firewall is going to become . Cliché and overused sequences which will probably make you scream " haven't I seen this somewhere before " ? Firewall offered nothing very new in terms of plot outline , as it contains modified scenes from even Ford's own works like Air Force One ( the family's survival being threatened , and it's up to one man to save the day ) and The Fugitive ( the frame up and one man's run from the law ) . Ford has already become comfortable in the role of an all-American one man hero , that this role offered no surprises at all . It's basically standard fare with the usual chases and action fight sequences . Stansfield is a VP of ( network ) security of a bank , and has designed the bank's software , with other operational duties like making sure the bank can respond to external online threats . However , as the saying goes , almost 80 % of intrusion are committed knowingly or unknowingly from the inside , and with a head honcho part of the act , you can be sure that he has the know-how to siphon out cash if he wants to . In comes Bill Cox ( Paul Bettany ) , scheming con man , who with his team of merry men , take Stanfield's family hostage and lapses into the usual psycho-mumbo-jumbo routine . With the family's antics at escaping , you really wonder if Cox , as a villain , has what it takes to call the shots in a hostage situation . While he might have the upper hand , it's his weakness in being ruthless to the hostages that proved his downfall , and make him a very weak cinematic villain . Here's someone who would rather shoot at his own men than to teach them hostages a lesson . Probably he has this noble subscription to " women and children first " . And it doesn't help when there's the usual good guy amongst his merry men who offers the family sympathy points . Word of caution though , for those who might think that this film offers some cool technology on screen . Leave the techno-babble at the door , there's no " firewall " to hack into in the first place , and the " hacking " is actually a no-brainer . And unless the USA offers wireless internet access like everywhere , it's pretty incredible with what a laptop can do in the movie . It has your expected twists and seemingly smart moments , but nothing that will truly make you go " wow " . The fist fight choreography can get pretty intense , however , there's no need to reach the end of the road before you know who's gonna emerge tops . It isn't exactly a bad movie , but one which doesn't even have a single sequence that can redeem this picture from really bad mediocrity .
A Nutshell Review : Blades of Glory	I'm fast converting to a Will Ferrell Fan , given that I've laughed out loud at his silly antics , in particular , the recent effort in Talladega Nights : The Ballad of Ricky Bobby . And now , joining forces with yet another up-coming comedian in Jon Heder ( School of Scoundrels , The Benchwarmers ) , I had high hopes of watching Blades of Glory to chase the week's blues away . However , expectation can be quite a bitch , and while Blades of Glory was funny , it wasn't laugh out loud funny from start to end . It had its moments , but only certain scenes to bring out those tears of nonsensical joy . For the most parts , it was pretty plain sailing - you know it's funny , just nothing to get that extra tickle out of you . And worse yet , the best moments were in the trailer , leaving you wondering if there were any more scenes left in the story to top those . The story tells of two rival ice skaters who belong to opposite sides of the sport . The introduction plays out like Zoolander , where the profiles of each character are put through funny montages . Jim MacElroy ( Heder ) is your typical bred-for-excellence sportsman , with impeccable manners , demeanour and discipline , executing his moves by the book . Chazz Michael Michaels ( Ferrell ) on the other hand , is your bad boy of the sport , a sex-addict who fuses sex into his moves , the master of improvisation whipping female fans everywhere into a frenzy each time he skates . They're like fire and ice , and in one of their typical bickering , bring disgrace to the sport and are banned from the men's competition for life . Until a loophole is discovered , and they combine forces , unwillingly , to return to the sport under the pairs competition , irking reigning champions , Van Waldenberg siblings of Stranz ( Will Arnett ) and Fairchild ( Amy Poehler ) . Threatened by the ludicrous return of Michael Michaels and MacElroy , with their pedigree pairing and stealing of limelight , the movie spends for the most last third of the movie on their unscrupulous tactics , and the cause - effect . Thrown into the fray is Jenna Fischer as Katie Van Waldenberg , who provides some uninspired romantic moments with Heder's Jim , and a faux pas sibling rivalry / woe in some emotional blackmail moments . As I've mentioned , the movie is a mixed bag . I would have expected Farrell's alpha-comedic role and Heder's for-fodder-role to combine seamlessly and bring on great laughs , but the pairing seem to be diluted instead . The best bits naturally are when each of them start to skate , and then skating together during competition , with plenty of moments for physical jokes - the usual groin and gay no holds barred punches . If you'd ask me to choose who's the funnier of the two , my vote will go to Farrell , and he gets more screen time too . Boom ! As compared to the whinier Heder who plays the usual roles quite repeatedly . Fans of Bo Bice will want to sit through the end credits as he sings the theme Blades of Glory , and stay tuned during the credit roll for an additional ( though not so funny ) extra involving a deranged obsessive fan .
A Nutshell Review : Max Payne	For starters , don't be a dweeb and start heading out the door when the end credits roll . If you deem that the movie didn't have proper closure since there are additional folks who didn't get their due Payne justice , then this scene at the end with Mila Kunis playing the Devil's Advocate , will probably make some amends to what is essentially a relatively generic detective drama . My first experience with the Max Payne game was by chance in a cybercafe . Back then , Counter-strike was all the rage , but having been thrown out of a server , I was poking around the computer's desktop , and noticed the game icon . My first impression after surviving all five minutes of it in the subway shootout , was that it allowed anyone who wanted to be Chow Yun-fat in a John Woo movie , play out their fantasy in full slow-motion glory . It was one that spewed plenty of blood , but more gratifying to a gamer , was how varied and massive the firepower was . How did the movie fare ? Well for those looking for the same all-out wall to wall action , you might have to be patient until the hour mark before things really start to heat up . Even then , it takes a lot more set action pieces before you get to the money shots as seen in the trailer . Good thing though that director John Moore didn't go overboard with all the slow motion madness the trailers would have led you to believe . Then again , this made the action stick to the formula of body counts , unlimited rounds , and an almost indestructible hero . Those who are worried that Max Payne will be turned into John Constantine , can put their fears to rest . In fact , most of those winged angels don't serve much purpose in the movie , except to give the visual effects and the computer graphics guys a job to do . It's actually quite unnecessary except to throw up red herrings when you try and figure out what function they serve , and then it will dawn on you that it's for stylistic purposes and not substance . The opening of Max Payne made it look like it plagiarized that from Matt Damon's The Bourne Identity . And in fact , given the look and scowl on Damon in The Bourne Ultimatum's poster , he does look like a doppelganger of Mark Wahlberg , and both of them could probably interchange roles since all that is required , is a permanent scowl . As the character goes , Payne is out kicking down doors looking for the murderer of his wife and child . And this is essentially a one-man show easily dispatching countless of faceless , emotionless and pretty cliché ( think The Fugitive type ) villains . What I thought could have been frowned upon , especially when the morally right go up in arms to condemn the movie for its violence , would be what seemed like a condonment of drug use , never mind if it was used for survival purposes , because it made it seem like drugs make you tough and fearless . Supporting female characters get turned into your classic flower vases , and I seriously think that newly minted Bond Girl Olga Kurylenko should start to look for more variety in the roles that she plays , rather than the usual vampish Russian who doesn't hesitate in shedding her clothes for the screen and wanting to bed the hero . While she's largely forgettable here , Mila Kunis ' role as Mona Sax would likely be the meatier one , but alas I suspect that most of her scenes got cut and left at the floor of the editing room . It's quite amazing though how a little goth makeup and loads of leather could transform her from friendly hotel front desk staff in Forgetting Sarah Marshall , to a character that has a penchant of popping up with no rhyme or reason . It's far from being a satisfactory game-turned-movie , mostly let down by the wafer thin plot that reeks of having been there and done that . Visually it's very beautiful to look at , with the constant gloomy nights punctuated with first snow . Fans of Wahlberg who are familiar with his bad-ass dude roles , would find that it's the same all over again , no matter if he's called Max Payne , Bob Lee Swagger , Dignam or Bobby Mercer .
A Nutshell Review : Fred Claus	What if Santa Claus , aka Saint Nicholas actually had a family , and a brother who hates him to the core because of a high degree of envy ? The first 10 minutes spend time establishing its version of this " What If " scenario , even offering the notion of how immortality comes to play a part in freezing their ages so as to transplant Fred ( Vince Vaughn ) the older brother , to Today , while Santa is already operating his Santa's Workshop delivering presents to nice children in time for Christmas Day . To a bitter brother jealous of the attention and success of his sibling , Fred hating Christmas and Santa is an understatement . He despises everything that Santa stands for ( of course the true meaning of Christmas takes a backseat here , in case you're wondering ) , but when run into trouble , no doubt calls the only kin he's still on talking terms with . In order to better his lot and be able to pay off a rental for his dream shop , he takes up his brother's offer to work at the Workshop for 50 grand , thinking it's a piece of cake , until of course the unexpected appearance of Kevin Spacey's Clyde Northcut , an efficiency expert brought in by a mysterious Board to access Santa's operations , and if need be , shut it down - he's already proudly claiming credit for booting the Easter Bunny and scaling down the operations of the Tooth Fairy . This is not a comedy , contrary to how it's being marketed . Sure there are funny moments , but none to warrant any genuine ho-ho-ho's from you . Instead you can see the laughs coming from a mile away , and the delivery is a little tired . You get the same old Vaughn styled verbal barrage and cynical wisecracks , only that they're more of the same and you'd wish Vaughn would either summarize or come up with something new . Paul Giamatti as Santa looks the part thanks to the excellent make up and costume , but really , he's a tad underused in his role as Father Christmas . Plenty of recognizable supporting extras get thrown into the mix , but there's a strange pattern to their not being utilized to their utmost potential . It becomes almost like Spot the Stars , with Ludicrous as DJ Donny , Kathy Bates as Mom Claus , Miranda Richardson as Mrs Santa Claus , two shy lovers in John Michael Higgins ' Willie the Chief Elf and Santa's Little Helper ( Elizabeth Banks ) , but the surprise of them all has to be Rachel Weisz - just love her Brit accent ! Kevin Spacey plays a Lex Luthor type with hair , and I can't help but to groan at the forced reference to his Superman Returns stint . Other than that , the only good bits come from a truly hilarious sequence involving Frank Stallone , Stephen Baldwin and Roger Clinton in a Siblings Anonymous self-help group , and the gorgeously sounding Christmas Carols . The Silent Night heard towards the end of the movie , will be a tough one for sentimentalist out there to hold back the tears . The special effects too were well done , especially Santa's sleigh zooming into the night skies of countries around the world ( I could've sworn I saw the Singapore Skyline too ) , in a montage sequence that allows Fred , and the audience , to just take a step back to wonder should Santa be true , then it's a heck of a tough job , especially when the success of a single day hinges on how much you can do in the night before - going around the world , breaking and entering through the chimney , leaving wishes and presents behind , and not forgetting to munch on the cookies and milk left for you . It's a Christmas movie that doesn't offer much , with the last act saving this movie and giving it some credibility to qualify as a feel-good movie for the holiday season . No doubt it starts off quite nastily with so much drumming on rivalry and the green-eyed monster , but it redeems some moments with its take on brotherly love . Definitely not Vaughn's or Giamatti's best work , and on the whole , an average movie . Don't hold your breath if you're keeping the faith that the movie somehow turns out better than what its trailers suggest .
A Nutshell Review : Mee Pok Man	This is probably the movie credited with sparking a comeback of Singapore films , and watching it , you can probably spot various influences this Eric Khoo film had on the other more contemporary attempts by the various local filmmakers like Djinn and Jack Neo ( whom of course , were in Eric Khoo movies ) . Joe Ng ( of local band Padres ) front the cast as the title character , and Michelle Goh , in her debut , stars as Bunny , the prostitute he is infatuated with . Being a dim witted noodle seller , he's naturally shy and worships her from afar , as she's one of the regulars at the coffee-shop where his shop is at . Bunny , on the other hand , thinks lowly of the mee pok seller , and in your usual SPG character , goes for the ang-mo Jonathan , some sleazy photographer played by David Brazil . The storyline's pretty basic , and you might think that at the point when Bunny became a victim of a hit-and-run , that the plot might pick up . Actually it sort of went downhill from there , as the mee pok man carries her injured body off to his home to care for her , to be with her . Alas , you should know what happens without proper medical attention . Towards the end of the film , it drags with mee pok's man soliloquay , and Bunny didn't have much to do except be there to complete the scene . Somehow with the forced dialogue , it lengthened a scene which should have been shortened to improve the pace , which was quite erratic throughout the movie . In its day , the language might have the audience taken aback , with characters mouthing off profanities in different dialects . But like I mentioned , it probably had made others sit up and notice that perhaps local movies should feature swearing to give it more street cred ? Something else which stood out - while featuring many languages in the movie mirrors our multi-racial / multi-language society , having characters converse in different dialects ( like the Fortune Teller scene ) sometimes doesn't cut it too realistically . Another point of controversy at its time was the nudity , or perceived nudity . The opening credits had still shots of a boob , butt and the female pubic region . You might wonder if it's necessary actually - doesn't really serve any purpose or facilitate the plot . Or the fact that Jonathan shoots nude photos . Given today , it'll probably be glossed over without much thought , and given an NC-16 rating . Characterisation called for attention , as the main characters Bunny and Mee Pok man didn't really have much of a motive , the former seeking inner peace and to leave Singapore , the latter just wanting to be with her until the morbid end . Other characters , like Lim Kay Tong's Mike Kor the Pimp , was stereotyped , as are many of the minor characters in the movie . Cameos were plenty too , like X'Ho , Djinn , S . M . Ong etc . But I still reckon it's a pretty decent first effort , and marked improvement can already be seen in 12 Storeys . While awaiting eagerly for Eric Khoo's latest offering Be With Me , this movie would allow you to appreciate how much things had changed for the better .
A Nutshell Review : Black Gold	When you sip on that aromatic cup of coffee , do you think about where it all comes from ? 2 billion cups of coffee are consumed on an average day , and I'm sure many of us have contributed our daily cuppas to that statistic as shared by the documentary Black Gold by Marc and Nick Francis . From the ordinary black coffee at the local coffeeshop , to gourmet , fanciful concoctions at the nearest Starbucks ( there's this new banana mix in town now ) , Black Gold takes you on a journey of the world's coffee trade , from the consumers right down to the farmers who toil their fields to give us those beans . But who makes the most out of this trade ? The multicorporations of course , fingered and identified in this film as money grabbers . We are taken on a tour of the vast coffee fields in Ethiopia , and Tadesse Meskela is our guide , as he shows us the conditions that the farmers have to work with , and the meagre amounts of money they are making to make ends meet , while the rest of the world gulps our coffee , parting with a few dollars while they make less than a cent . The demand and supply mechanics seem to be imbalanced , no doubt with prices made artificially high on the commodities trader market in New York and London , with none trickling down to the tail end for the suppliers . Tadesse Meskela's objective is to band the farmers around a co-operative so as to be able to negotiate better prices . They're not on a mission to make prices rocket , but just a few dollars more would improve the livelihood of the farmers tremendously , and to enable their children to have decent education . It's also about the attempts to remove the multi-layered middleman chain ( up to 6 links ) , and I've always been a proponent to eradicate the middle sections because unless they value add , there's no point swelling the pockets of those who does what I deem a " postman's job " . There are a few points which provides starking contrasts between the haves and have nots . What I thought was sly , was the showcasing of Starbucks , its first outlet and its star performers raving about how much opportunity they have etc , versus the source of Starbuck's coffee from Ethiopia , where massive famine is experienced by those in that region . I guess in a capitalist world , those who have money will continue to exploit , and will continue doing so as long as the bottomline is not affected . However , Black Gold lacked that strike in that emotional chord . It's pure " here's the problem " without offering much , loaded with clinical facts and figures printed on screen . While it showed how difficult the folks down the supply chain are having , that's basically it . We're the clueless consumers as depicted in the documentary who couldn't care less , and that basically summed it up , given its lack of that final sucker punch to ring the message home .
A Nutshell Review : Victory	Unfortunately I'm not much of a cricket fan , and whatever knowledge I have of the game , how it's played , the rules and regulations and such , is thanks to Ashutosh Gowariker's Lagaan starring Aamir Khan , a movie which had the game explained in layman terms to a group of villagers assembling a rag-tag team to challenge their oppressive British occupiers with tax breaks on the line . Victory however is a sports theme movie through and through , adopting the very standard formula ( which was also applied to Fashion ) where it's focused on the protagonist's meteoric rise to stardom , an equally hard downfall , and ultimate redemption . Harman Baweja's debut in Bollywood hasn't been rosy with the box-office disaster Love Story 2050 ( which I've yet to watch ) , which was an expensive special effects laden science fiction movie involving some time travel . And I thought to a certain extent , Victory doesn't buy him much favours too because his Vijay Shikhawat at his introduction , gets passed off as a very arrogant whiner . Arrogant because of his given talent of being the complete cricket player and a powerful batsman , but a whiner as he constantly complains to his friends and family of rued chances . Not because he's a fault though , but because he's a small town boy who got overlooked by scouting talent due to corruption and crony-ism of the scouts . But as luck would have it , the National Team goes to his hometown for practice sessions , and determined to get just one shot to impress ( erm , he did whine first of course ) , he turns up and wows everyone with an impressive display against the Team India players , and with a professional match in which he shone in , becomes Team India's latest secret weapon against powerhouse countries like Australia , South Africa , Sri Lanka and the likes . Ajit Pal Mangat's story then follows the beaten path with plenty of films out there where the small town boy gets led astray and seduced by the bright lights in the big cities , affecting his play and sowing the seeds of his downfall naturally . Values like hard work , modesty and humility , no thanks to his money-making sports agent Andy Singh ( Gulshan Grover ) milking his new client for millions of dollars of endorsement , get exchanged for hard cash , fast women , and hard liquor , before what all sportsmen fear , a career-threatening injury coming their way . Not to mention the cardinal sin for single-handedly failing against an arch-rival team too . While Goal ! was the definitive movie on football , Victory tried to be the same for cricket and adopted the same technique of having real players feature in the film . And credit to the filmmakers here , they got getting players from the various countries involved to participate , and not just digitally adding the actors in it , but to have real and meaningful interaction , which I felt it triumphed over Goal ! in this aspect . For fans of cricket , I'd bet this is something of a real treat . However , the film's quite focused too on the father-son relationship between Vijay and his dad Ram ( Anupam Kher ) , who had pinned his cricket hopes on his son , and finally witnessing him realize both their dreams , only to be disappointed when he had forgotten his roots , and his drive to be world class . There's an interesting parallel here involving the father figure here between Ram and Andy Singh , one who has brought up the boy to become the talent that he is , and the other who pushed the talent to fulfill his commercial potential and downfall . I felt that this portion was glossed over , and could have made an even greater emotional impact when Vijay realizes his grave mistake . Not to mention the resolution of this subplot too , which was deep in melodrama , vastly hurried and lacking that emotional punch when it came . Romance was also glossed over , even though Amrita Rao's Nandini was there from the onset and we all know of her unspoken love for Vijay . Again the tried and tested was followed to a T , but love got severely reduced to just 1 song summarizing Vijay's realization of her unwavering support and their subsequent courtship , before junking love aside to focus wholeheartedly on the game at hand . I felt that this lack of emotional depth in the film especially between Vijay and his loved ones , somehow provided that disconnect the audience has for the protagonist . Victory doesn't steer away from expectations of a sports movie , but had unrealized potential which was traded for the familiar . The games too get played out to expectations ( and provided some comedic moments in the after-game newsreels ) , so they became rather textbook with little fancy maneuvers . Perhaps it wanted to play a little safer , but in doing so it became just another genre movie without breaking any new ground .
A Nutshell Review : District 13 ( Banlieue 13 )	It's erroneous to interpret " A Film By Luc Besson " that the marketing folks slap on the movie posters these days . Besson has of late been lending his name for that purpose on many movies , but nope , he's not the director . Usually involved in another capacity , like writer , or producer . District 13 is one such movie . This is not a film by Luc Besson , although it is written by , and produced by him . This movie is directed by Pierre Morel , who was the cinematographer for another Besson-involved film , Jet Li's Unleashed . You'll see some familiar stylistic elements from Unleashed in this movie , although this one was made in 2004 , and shown here earlier as the movie used to launch Cathay's new halls 10-12 at cineleisure . Set in Paris 2010 , troubled districts get walled in by the authorities . Literally . And District 13 is one of the most notorious amongst all . We get introduced to Leito first , a resident of District 13 , but as it turns out , despite his mean tattoo covered demeanor , he has a heart of gold , and fantastic springs for legs , borrowed from the Yamakasi folks . Played by David Belle , he actually is a co-founder of a sport known as Parkour , which is demonstrated in the movie as a very free form of martial arts cross bred with the Yamakasi spirit . Leito is a character who's jaded by authority-like figures , as he gets betrayed by the police , and has his sister given up as collateral . The other protagonist is Damien , an ace undercover cop , played by stuntman Cyril Raffaelli . Accomplishing his latest mission doesn't buy him rest , as he gets thrust unwillingly into a new assignment of having to locate a neutron bomb stolen and brought into District 13 . Given only 24 hours before the bomb explodes and kills everyone in an eight kilometer radius , he has to enlist the help of Leito to serve as a guide inside the notorious district . As you would already expect , it's reluctant hero meeting another reluctant hero , both with huge egos and their own agendas - one to save lives , the other to save his sister . Both share a common enemy , so that makes it easier somewhat to find common ground to cooperate . However , the movie's a tad short to explore these buddy themes , as you get into the action thick and fast . It's adrenalin pumping action against an edgy hard hitting soundtrack . You'll initially be wowed at Leito's Parkour scenes , which brings back some memories of Jackie Chan movies with his acrobatic maneuvers into confined spaces , and of leaping from building to building , window ledge to window ledge , and rooftop to rooftop . However , after a while , you tend to get jaded because it's basically the same thing , repeated over and over again . The initial novelty wore out , and it didn't help that action scenes thereafter relied on the same techniques . Also , despite being billed as a non-stop action flick , the action actually pauses for long moments to force a discussion on the ridding of the downtrodden , of taking extreme measures to round up troubled districts by physically segregating them from the rest using high walls and barbed wires . and of extreme methods of getting rid of such folks deemed as troublemakers . There're also more style-than-substance scenes , not that I'm complaining , but some shots were pretty to look at , at the expense of the story . As with most action movies , you'll also have to suspend belief that while bullets can make nasty holes in metal , they will never find a way to penetrate wood or human flesh , at least when the heroes are concerned . While the ending's pretty neat , you can't help but wonder that this movie is yet another victim of the cool trailer syndrome - having almost all the best bits of the movie condensed into the trailer , leaving nothing much in the movie itself .
A Nutshell Review : Lakeview Terrace	Watching this movie brought back some memories of the well-publicized spat between neighbours in the neighbourhood of Joo Chiat , with their antics which included the shining of spot lights at each other's house , the trading of barbs and insults , and the use of video recorders to tape down the other's antics . Naturally there are no weapons involved , but otherwise , Ithought Lakeview Terrace rang home some of the issues that these folks probably faced day to day . I'm not sure what the outcome of that spat is now though . Lakeview Terrace is one of those movies that just is , with a rather straightforward plot to begin with , presenting us with the backgrounds of the characters before putting them into each other's way with conflicting values and opportunities for quarrel spawned from misunderstandings and petty non-compromise . It's also about how the male ego refuses to back down and in wanting to have the last say , coupled with the mindset of " I was here first so bugger off " attitude . The race card doesn't get trumpeted out loud , but it does rear its head as potential flare points every now and then , though skimming the surface most of the time . The titular area has reference and significance to the Rodney King assault case , though now it becomes the backdrop of a cinematic neighbourly spat against the background of the infamous Californian fires . We get introduced to the Turner family , where Dad and policeman Abel ( Samuel L . Jackson ) rules the household and his kids with an iron fist and his incessant and traditional rules , frowning upon anything he deems as decadent . In comes mixed newly wed couple Chris and Lisa Mattson ( Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington respectively ) , who irks our cop next door with their very open public display of affection in the pool at their backyard , in full view of Abel's children , and so the line has been crossed . There are enough rogue cop movies out there such as Unlawful Entry with the cops threatening the peaceful lives of ordinary citizens in the neighbourhood , and this one is but one of the rather mediocre entries to the genre , with the story unravelling itself in very straightforward terms without any build up to the final act . There were opportunities that could have redeemed it , such as having a central crime piece turn awry , but alas it became something half-baked , and served only as a means of finding an exit out of the movie and end it . While certain scenes do seem that they were juxtaposed around , what managed to make this movie a cut above the rest , is once again the enigmatic presence of Samuel L . Jackson and his bad-ass attitude , amplified here because he's a cop and the law , and there's nobody one can turn to when they have to call the police authorities . A glint of the eye , a terse question asked in interrogation style , or a smile that hides its true intent , almost everything Samuel L Jackson does , tells you that you're basically screwed should you stand on the opposite end of his beliefs . And both Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington demonstrate that emotion quite perfectly ( though of course it's probably not tha difficult to do too ) through their rather meek characters who can be stepped all over given their lack of assertion of their opinions . But it's not all stern stuff from Jackson as there was a scene he shares with Wilson that provided some clues into his background and to try and elicit some sympathy from the audience with regards to his character's alleged racism and intolerance for terms other than his own , besides revealing the source of his pain . Alas by the time this came through , it didn't really matter and after realizing that the narrative had dragged a little too long , proceeded with quite a hasty finale to wrap up all the loose corners , a tad too conveniently too I may add .
A Nutshell Review : The Horsemen	I was gearing up for a good serial killer movie given the premise of having the four horsemen of the apocalypse , with the trailer piquing my interest from its fair share of unflinching blood and gore . Sad to say though that the distributors preferred to appeal to a wider audience for this , and some scenes were clearly butchered for its language , conversational content as well as snipping off some of the more gory moments of annihilation . I guess even the horsemen themselves are powerless when up against the censors ' scissors , which is the more potent weapon here . Dennis Quaid plays a pained cop Aidan Breslin , who has recently lost his wife and is growing increasingly distant from his kids Alex ( Lou Taylor Pucci ) and Sean ( Liam James ) , burying himself in and using work as an emotional crutch , never being there for family because work often calls out for his attention . And as the trailers would have pretty much revealed , the serial killer victims are all tortured with meat hooks of sorts , and he's faced with more than 1 killer who model themselves after the biblical Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse . Sounds like your average detective movie right ? I guess a memorable film from the genre like Se7en will only come once in a blue moon . This film by Jonas Akerlund tries to elicit similar moods devoid of humour and is all seriousness in tone , but its plot turned out to be quite flimsy thin , and those who have experienced enough of the genre , would have guessed the culprit for the last act somewhere by the mid-way point . No , it's not Ziyi Zhang ( as she is credited ) , and despite a major billing in the credits , her character Kristen turned out to be spoiled by the trailer already , coupled with the fact that she doesn't have more than 15 minutes worth of screen time in total . While this is one of her rare villainous outing with dialogue ( back in Rush Hour 2 she was struggling with English ) , I would have supposed that opposition to her character here as a villain was unfounded , given that they should have been more concerned with her sleepwalking through the role , and could have been replaced by any other lesser actresses since at best it's only a supporting role . Dennis Quaid however shows how he ages well into delivering stellar , lead performances , and makes it believable he's a man constantly struggling with a work-life balance . Ultimately , the message here is how important parents play in nurturing their children , and should be very much involved in their development , rather than thinking that cash would be a sufficient substitute and settle everything . The film does suggest , and probably had a subplot going for it , something like Japan's suicide pact clubs online , something which I thought could have been given an additional focus instead of leaving it open ended at that , just to show the extent of the " apocalypse " as being delivered by its messengers . Technically , one aspect which irked me , was how low the cropping turned out to be . I have read that there were constant boom mikes spotted in shots , so it could be a bad by-product of having to address that problem , in addition to ensuring that the printed Chinese subtitles are visible for the audience . So there were a lot of heads cut off at the foreheads during shot-reverse-shot conversational pieces , and various other medium to close up shots , that irritated the hell out of me . Horsemen had an interesting premise working for it , but alas didn't fulfill its potential in having to drop deeper themes for that frantic pace to the finishing line - which comparing to the run time at IMDb . com , we had 20 minutes shorn off here .
A Nutshell Review : Semi-Pro	Will Ferrell continues with sports theme comedies with Semi-Pro , a throwback to the 70s where the American Basketball Association ( ABA ) is merged in part with the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) which we are all quite familiar with . With his Talladega Nights on Nascar racing and Blades of Glory on ice figure skating , if I were to rank his latest effort amongst the three , unfortunately it will be ranked the last . Talladega Nights really cracked me up , and there were many moments where I laughed until my tears became uncontrollable - that's the personal gauge I use for comedies just in case you want to know . With Blades of Glory , it gets a little tired with his selfish character trying to go one up against his closest rival , which sort of degenerated into dramatic fare of brotherhood and friendship . With Semi-Pro , he continues with this character trait of cockiness ( yes , it does get very tired after a while ) as owner-coach-player of a fictional ABA team known as the Flint Tropics . As the story goes , the ABA is into its final season because of the impending merger with the NBA , and the top 4 teams will get absorbed into the NBA , while the rest will have to be dissolved . So it's up to Ferrell's Jackie Moon to motivate his team , and to wheel and deal with the operational aspects of the game like boosting dwindling attendances and designing gimmicks , to keep their hopes alive . Having an incompetent team , save for star player Clarence " Coffee " Black ( Andre Benjamin from Outkast ) , means that realistically they're no - hopers for the top 4 spots , at least not until Jackie trades a washing machine ( don't ask ) for an NBA player Monix ( Woody Harrelson ) , who comes in to impart some of his elite knowledge of the game , despite being unpopular at first , and even causing a Actually , I thought that comedy was quite secondary in Semi-Pro . What it did have however are attention to detail on the differences between the ABA and the NBA leagues , starting with the multi-colored ball used . Half-time entertainment , courtesy of Jackie Moon , seemed very tired , with the best bits already included in the trailer . Other than that , the movie's quite bogged down by Harrelson's role in holding a candle for an ex-flame , which unfortunately didn't get past the censors scissors . But credit be given though to 2 things in the movie . One , a scene where the major players are seated around a table gambling , and involving a revolver , which does take a heck of its own sweet time to get to the point and deliver its punchline which somewhat fizzled . The other , is the totally inane song Love Me Sexy . Without these two elements , Semi-Pro really deserves to be relegated .
A Nutshell Review : Inkheart	It's an interesting premise to begin with , having the power to bring to life characters and events to the real world by just reading relevant passages . I can figure it out already , where to get fame and fortune from the right literature to read out loud . But with great power comes realization and responsibility , and because there's no such thing as a free lunch , there's always payback in the most unexpected forms . While I haven't read the book by Cornelia Funke , what got translated on screen did get a little boring , bogged down by bad lines , uninteresting characters , and humour which fell flat each time . The trailer might have painted an epic adventure with boundless possibilities from plundering the premise , but too bad a lot of books got burnt from the start , leaving The Wizard of Oz the highlight of the lot . It was fun while it lasted though , in trying to identify characters and objects from various well known stories , such as the Gingerbread House , but these sprung out like little nuggets for those in the know to spot with glee . Otherwise , we're left with Brandan Fraser's Mo Folchart , nicknamed " Silvertongue " by the characters he brought to life because of his innate gift , which had banished his wife to the books to take the place of those that came out . With his daughter Meggie ( Eliza Hope Bennett ) , they scour the corners of the world to look for the same book Inkheart , in the hopes of figuring out how to reverse the changes , and get back their loved one , wife Resa ( Sienna Guillory ) . Fraser is being Fraser the big budgeted blockbuster hero , and doesn't show much expression from his repertoire of movies from the Mummy Franchise to flicks like Journey to the Center of the Earth , playing very much the concerned dad . And if you think a bland hero is bad , a bland villain is miles worst . There are countless of villainous characters here , courtesy of the Inkheart book , that pepper the story , and they are the standard dumb goons . Even Andy Serkis ' Capricorn is nothing more than an average cowardly henchman status with the sole objective of wealth accumulation , and hams it up so much that the villain becomes a comedian , and a bad one at that . Shades of Lord of the Rings come courtesy of his attempt to bring to life " The Shadow " , the pale cousin to the Dark Lord Sauron . Surprisingly , a string of recognizable stars are involved in this film , such as Helen Mirren playing Meggie's grand aunt Elinor Loredan , equipped with a big mouth that whines too much , and Jim Broadbent as Inkheart's author , who relished every moment of interacting with his characters , yearning for a chance to try and get into the book because whatever glimpses he had over in the real world , was an orgasmic walk into his own imagination , as he quipped . But I felt the best character here was Paul Bettany's Dustfiner , a lone figure marred in melancholy who for nine torturous years , had unsuccessfully tried to convince Mo to send him back . Kudos to Bettany's acting of course , with so much pain in his expression he makes you pity his character , put in a world not to his liking , and very much against his wishes , because like Mo , he yearns to reconcile with his family , and what more when his wife Roxanne is played by his real wife Jennifer Connelly in a cameo role . In fact , his Dustfinger got put into more interesting situations in the film compared to the rest , and thus inevitably steals the show with a character motivation that's easily identified with . And he really showed off his range of emotions when he inevitably had to hear spoilers , which was the only time in the entire movie which I felt genuinely though tragically comedic . Inkheart is like an adult fairy tale , and could have been like Stardust which I had enjoyed , with its star power and unique premise . A pity though that it was delivered rather plainly and had neither the depth nor anything unexpected to ruffle what essentially was a one-way train going through the motions on its tracks from start to end .
A Nutshell Review : Bangkok Dangerous	I guess I can mark today as Remake day , having to watch two movies which are adaptations or updates to their original , both of which have Asian origins , though one I will be going in blind given that I've not watched its predecessor . I've only caught the DVD of the Pang Brothers ' Bangkok Dangerous , arguably their breakthrough film about a deaf mute hit-man , which made audiences round the world sit up and take notice of their talent in crafting gritty stories . There are remakes that have their rights sold to others , and they join the ranks of the rare few who get the call from Hollywood , and given an opportunity to helm a remake of sorts with a bigger budget , and presumably better known stars . Unfortunately , whatever that made Bangkok Dangerous unique the first time round , got thrown out of the window for tried and tested , and therefore safer and predictable fare , that this one looked no more than a bland , generic action movie . One of the chief aspects of the original that was junked , and that was probably a bad call , was with the mute hit-man now being your typical usual hit-man , joining the ranks of thousands already out there in cinema . Granted now that you have your Hollywood star , there's absolutely no way he would want to be silenced and not given an opportunity to speak on screen . Nicholas Cage , being producer here , naturally gets a say in the revamp , and sadly , he wanted to relive his Castor Troy days in Face / Off . Why do I say that ? I thought the Pang Brothers ' story , and the original movie , steered very clear from trying to resemble your typical Hong Kong / Hollywood action flick , and wanted to stamp their own authority in their take on the action-hit-man genre . Hence their original film . This remake probably allowed them to pay a little homage , and probably tested if they can make a bland action film . They succeeded , and allowed themselves some room to pay homage with a balletic slow-motion action sequence where Cage's Joe engages in a fire - fight with 2 guns blazing , with an enemy across stacked water-containers . Tell me if you're not seen something like that before , and they should have thrown in some doves for good measure too . Nicholas Cage as Joe ( in a little name reversal from the original ) came at a time where his star wasn't fading that fast , yet . This movie was made a couple of years ago , before Cage turned in some rather blah performances and works such as Ghost Rider , and Next , which was utter trash . There was a Next moment in the movie too , which made me groan out loud , not in pleasure of course . With that Tom Hank's inspired hairdo , Cage plays your hit-man without remorse in executing ( pardon the pun ) his duties . Like Jason Statham's Transporter , he sticks to his rules , but we all know that rules are meant to be broken , and when they do , things get broken . In this version of Bangkok Dangerous , the international hit-man goes to Bangkok for 4 jobs before he can finally retire , and in a land where he cannot speak the language , he decides to adopt a protégé in Kong ( Shahkrit Yamnarm ) to do his dirty work at first , before breaking a rule and train a disciple ala The Professional ( keep that counter on for the numerous references ) . Each kill brings him closer to his goal , but the jobs do seem to get nastier , and tougher . I thought a hit-man should be as clinical and as quiet as possible . There are some quiet moments , and here's where the problem is . So you say you want a deaf mute person eh ? We'll give it to you then , in the form of a love interest Fon , played by Chinese actress pretending to be Thai ( it's easy actually since you do not have to speak ) in Charlie Young . In yet another flower vase role she plays to perfection , the romance between the hit-man and his lady love rang really empty , unlike the emotionally charged one in the original . Perhaps you can blame the cast , but I'd put it squarely on the shoulders of the creators . The only time where something was kept from the original , was that iconic image of the hit-man with his gun to his head . Otherwise , Oxide and Danny Pang in their update of their own film really messed it up , in providing an average action flick with a one man army that could still entertain , but provides the audience with a niggling feeling of deja-vu . Heck , even Job # 4 looked like Joe was a Harvey Lee Oswald wannabe .
A Nutshell Review : Red Desert	The first Michelangelo Antonioni movie in color , Red Desert stars Monica Vitti whom audiences would by now be already acquainted with after the successful and acclaimed trilogy with L'Avventura , La Notte and L'Elisse . While much has been said about Antonioni bringing about a stark palette of colors which highlights the inner psychological turmoil of the characters , or use it to great effect to talk about the negative effects man has on his environment just like how deadly the yellow was representing sulphur , it did plod on a little especially when it dwelled upon the usual relationship factor between its lead characters . Vitti stars as Giuliana , a woman whom we see in the beginning and get quite uncomfortable with , as she purchases an already eaten piece of food , and going off to a corner to munch on it with much satisfaction . We learn she's a neurotic , a creation of a vehicle accident , and pretty much obsessive compulsive as well . She has funds to open a shop , but doesn't know what to sell . She has a son , but doesn't know what to do with him and is at wits end with his malingering ways . Her husband we get to see for just a bit , but this isn't exactly a story about him too . Without Vitti in the lead role , I think the fascination with the character ends there . Vitti through her charisma manages to hold your attention , and possibly through this role , highlights her prowess as a commendable actress . I guess it is through her great performance here as an explicitly portrayed confused woman , that made sitting through this story bearable , because otherwise , we'll be stuck with Richard Harris ' Corrado Zeller , a rich industrialist with a one track mind , and that's to bed Vitti's Giuliana , at whatever the cost . And his attempts don't fall short of persistent as well , with his constant probing , requesting , so much so that he's desperate personified . In between their emotional and physical tussle , there were some episodes which stuck out like a sore thumb , perhaps due to my lack of understanding why they should be part of the narrative . One such scene is the story of a young girl which Giuliana tells her son , complete with enactments , which suggests some significance to it . The other though was quite interesting , where a supposed sexual orgy is to have taken place , but what we got to experience was a whole host of party games that a group of men and women engage in , which actually bordered on the weird . Needless to say I didn't really enjoy the story nor any perceived message it tried to bring across . I do however , continue to admire what Vitti can do within the confines of an Antonioni movie .
A Nutshell Review : Contract Lover	Kate stars opposite Richie Ren ( or Jen , depending on what rocks your boat ) , as couple Rachel and Fat . They're the atypical modern day couple living it up in Beijing , though the latter is suspect of the former's promiscuity . He loathes the time when he has to bring his girlfriend back to the village to meet his parents , and to get the stamp of approval from his father ( played by Yuen Wah ) . So they device a plan , and that is to look for a substitute girlfriend ( hence the title Contract Lover ) , whose mission is to be as disgusting as possible , so that Dad will tell Fat to find anyone else better than the current beau , and hence , for Fat to introduce Rachel . Cue Fan Bingbing's Joe ( don't ask ) , a poor Chinese teacher who desperately needs the money to send home to her mom . To pull off being the most horrendous girlfriend ever , she has to go through a complete makeover , and be someone she's totally not , which is basically to act like a slutty bimbo ( the credits actually showed her having an image consultant on set , though I suspect the role is to ensure her character doesn't tarnish Fan's good image ) . Then it's off to the village to try and be a put off to Fat's family . The plot seems familiar , one of those fluffy romantic comedies where a mismatched couple soon find themselves falling for one another , while at the same time things happen to go against their plan , and for Fat not knowing who actually proves to be more compatible for him . Needless to say , Kate's role here is actually quite limited , given that she only appears in the beginning and at the end . The movie's in Mandarin too , and everyone has to speak it sans dubbers , which means the Hong Kongers must have had quite a difficult time - Kate does struggle with it , and can't seem to shake off her Cantonese accent convincingly . The narrative runs quite choppily , and scenes seem quite disparate . Besides trying to be sexy at times ( more for laughs actually ) , it cannot shake off the common generalization of villagers , that they just have to be skilled in martial arts . Yuen Wah's Dad is the distant descendant of Huo Yuanjia ( remember Fearless ? ) and spouts ( hokey ) philosophy quite freely . Having set up the Jing Wu school , and the rivals being distant descendants of Wong Fei Hung , you can be sure that whatever jokes you can think of regarding their ancestry , be brought out for laughs . Those familiar with Hong Kong comedies , might see glimpses of them here , though with a lesser degree of success in delivery . But there are genuine moments of laughter , though they are extremely few and far between . One involves pole dancing and kungfu training that just has to be seen to be believed , even though you see that moment coming a mile away . Or that 3-way romantic tangle involving a demure village girl , a hunky martial arts practitioner , and a gay Caucasian . There are just too many minute sub-plots that seem to suffocate and artificially inflate the runtime of the movie , adding little depth and contributing to many frivolous moments . Funny moments too run into the depths of blouses , though some might find them a tad too distasteful , and not revealing too much anyway . However that's what you should expect in the first place when watching a movie like this . It has a basic premise tweaked from a tried and tested formula , and highly predictable to boot . It might serve as a decent romantic comedy for dates , but that's about it , unless of course you're a fan of either of the leads , or you've also had a tacit affirmation set up .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Romeo Must Die ( 2000 )	I've been a fan of Jet Li's movies , but have been quite disappointed with his latest offering " Danny The Dog " / " Unleashed " . While the action was great as usual , somehow the storyline isn't compelling enough . I'm still eagerly anticipating his Fearless in 2006 though , as the publicity stills so far have been promising , and it's touted as his final action movie . Which brings me back to Romeo Must Die . It's his first feature length Hollywood film as the protagonist , after his villainous start in Lethal Weapon 4 opposite Mel Gibson . And to compensate for the lack of classic martial arts action in LW4 , there are tons of wire-work / CGI laden kung fu in this movie . The storyline's pretty decent , with a gang war between an African American gang , and a Chinese gang , in which Jet belongs to . He and Aaliyah play the offspring of their respective mob bosses , and decide to team up to discover a recent spate of killings between their gangs , as their siblings become the latest victims . As part of the plot , we see both gangs trying to engage in legitimate business , with a crooked NFL dealer thrown into the mix . It's of little surprise that both gangs , although different in race and culture , are run in the same way - a strong figure head , ruthless second-in-commands , and bumbling assistants . What appeals probably is the chemistry between Jet and Aaliyah . The latter was an up and coming singing starlet , but unfortunately perished in a tragic air crash . Romeo Must Die is her first movie released when she's alive ( the other being Queen of the Damned ) , and I'd thought she would make a decent actress too . She seemed to partner Jet Li well , and looked credible in some of the action sequences . Much of the action is stylized , meaning you know , and in a very obvious manner , that the fights all involve wires ( since it's HK's Cory Yuen choreographing , and Joel Silver producing it ) . A pretty nifty x-ray CGI effect comes up on screen each time Jet Li breaks someone's bones . Pretty cool , and not used to often to make you sick . It's a decent movie which will engage you , especially on a lazy weekend or holiday . The Code 3 DVD is stocked full with special features , making of documentaries , music videos , and if put into a PC , even leads you to a simple fighting game online .
A Nutshell Review : Village People Radio Show	The latest news about Amir Muhammad's Village People Radio Show , is that Malaysia has banned it outright . That makes it two in a row for Amir . Like his previous documentary The Last Communist , this is a sequel of sorts continuing on a similar topic where The Last Communist left off , with the filmmaker and his team revisiting the village at the Malaysian Thai border , interviewing the Malay-Muslim members of the old communist party . However , after watching it , one cannot fathom the ban . There wasn't any violence , sex nor the word " Communist " in the title . Neither did it glorify , and perhaps it did not condemn . What it did , again like its predecessor , is to allow the interviewees to share history based on their perspective . Perhaps it is this opportunity for an avenue to air thoughts , that it's deemed as a " dangerous " movie that shouldn't be seen by the masses ? There are nice touches in the documentary , and usually they're the scenes of serene , calm , and innocence exuded by the children - two girls having the time of their lives playing on a see saw . Those who expect something of sorts like The Last Communist will be disappointed . There is the clear absence of the madcap song and dance routines that made The Last Communist enjoyable . Here it has taken a rather serious , at times mundane , tone to its delivery , as if to demonstrate that there is no need for visual and aural gimmicks to spice up the film . But it decided to incorporate some Thai melodrama into the presentation , and there will be some who will enjoy reading in between the lines . And in relation to its title " Radio Show " , the narrative adopted a style of turning the dials , having transitions that must take getting used to before it irritates , especially when they start off rather long in duration ( as a transitional scene ) . Respectable documentary this is , but don't expect anything fancy . Really too bad about the ban , which does seem to drum up more support and curiosity for the movie , rather than to achieve its supposed desired effect .
A Nutshell Review : My Sassy Girl	I haven't really watched the original from start to end , so I can't say for sure how well this version was vis-a-vis the Korean one , which shot Jeon Ji-Hyun to prominence in the starring role . The Hollywood remake however , went straight to DVD , but you know that it's Uniquely Singapore that we give DVD releases a chance on our big screens . That said , I thought this remake wasn't as bad as it was made out to be , what with some screaming blasphemy , and calling it inferior . Truth is , I was entertained from start to end , nevermind if certain scenes seemed implausible . After all , this is a romantic movie , and in the genre , if the man says he's gonna fetch a moon , he jolly well plucks it out from the night sky and delivers it . And if we're talking about implausible romance sequences here , then director Yann Samuell would be the right guy at the helm , after all , he brought us the French movie Love Me If You Dare . Elisha Cuthbert takes over the role immortalized by Jeon Ji-Hyun , as Jordan Roark ( whose last name becomes a running joke ) the ditzy , crazy and perpetually drunk lass whom Charlie Bellow ( Jesse Bradford ) falls for in one random night where he saves her from potentially injuring / killing herself at the subway . So begins the abusive person versus the Mr straight - laced all round nice guy in comic routine after comic routine , which for the most parts , weren't exactly funny to begin with . And their outings all stem from her dictating where and what time to meet , in which he dutifully obeys , not knowing what's in it for him . Maybe he's a wuss but I guess it stemmed from his being a romantic and genuinely wanting to do whatever she dictated , for the simple reason that he's smitten . After all , I guess who wouldn't , given her attractiveness , and the extremely strange circumstances , which do get explained , in which she behaves . But while both leads are good looking , they do lack a certain chemistry when with each other , making it look like a very forced meeting of lovebirds , in a very artificial way . That aside , the movie does have its slick ending to thank for in weaving together their respective back stories , though they do detract and distract from the main narrative , and bring some attention to how beautiful those shots were made , in having to integrate seamlessly one scene to the next . And its concept of Destiny , and dealing with it , on one hand felt completely honest with its building of bridges to each other , of having to know it and to work at it , but alas the movie eventually fell back on what it had preached , opting instead to leave it to the stars , and a very quick and coincidental one at that , which you can see coming from miles away . I guess for those who have not seen the original , we might be blown away by the story and revelation , given that Korean romantic movies / weepies do not come only at face value . However , having seen some Korean remakes , I would reckon that those who have seen the original will call this a travesty . The jury's still out however , until I get my hands on its Korean predecessor , and then I'll let you know what I think . That I believe I should be able to do so since this version has intrigued me to give the original another go . Otherwise , this movie's still adequate for a decent romantic date . I did however , feel sorry for actresses who played the 11 Woman of No Consequence - sheesh , what a title !
A Nutshell Review : Rush Hour 3	Should movies make money , then the Hollywood rule of thumb is to make another , and another , until the franchise runs out of steam . The original Rush Hour was a Jackie Chan vehicle of sorts to break into Hollywood , and it made a lot of money with the mis-pairing opposite Chris Tucker in a buddy cop movie formula filled with action and comedy . Rush Hour 2 was made 3 years later and made even more money , but it took 6 years for the second sequel to be made , and 9 years for the entire trilogy to be done ( pray tell , will there be another sequel ? ) Is the franchise tired ? Probably , yet probably not . Face it , it's Jackie Chan , and most of his films ( with the exception of missteps such as Around the World in 80 Days ) make Hollywood studios smile . You can rely on him to deliver the goods in any action comedy , but age unfortunately has caught up with him , not to mention as well the safer-than-safe minimal risks that studios in the West tend to take with its stars . The action sequences in Rush Hour 3 look a bit tired , tame , and very uninspiring , and what Jackie Chan can probably still do , has been whittled down to sequences that are just a pale shadow of what could have been . Which leaves us with the comedy , thankfully still having its moments especially for those punchlines which deliver . Tucker again gets most of the snarky lines , and a target for those politically incorrect jokes , while dishing some of his own . If there's any hint of rudimentary character development after these years , is that his James Carter , besides having been relegated to traffic duties , managed to " half-chinese " himself , and no longer is that helpless cop who without his gun , can't kick a ball for nuts . The plot is no rocket science , and in fact , the previous two movies just had something which could coast along from scene to scene , providing a platform either to get our heroes Lee ( Chan ) and his brother-from-another-mother James ( Tucker ) into fisticuffs , or provide something for laughs . The first had a kidnapping of a Chinese Consul's daughter which the duo had to investigate in the US , while the second brought them to Hong Kong on the trail of a counterfeiting scam . The third pits the detectives against Triads , and brings us full circle with the return of that little girl in the original movie , who's now all grown up , played by Chinese starlet Zhang Jingchu . Zhang Jingchu follows in the footsteps of fellow compatriot Zhang Ziyi who starred in the previous sequel . But unlike Ziyi , Jingchu's role is sans martial arts , despite her character being a kungfu instructor . It's unfortunately a purely flower vase role , though she looks more fleshed and healthier than her druggy role in Protégé . Yvan Attal's supporting role as a French cab driver is actually more of a scene stealer - listen out for those jibes at America , though it's a little of a cop out how that eventually plays out . Some of the more totally insane moments involve those deliberate lost in translation moments , which are the more enjoyable moments in this movie . Rush Hour 3 is similar in structure with its predecessors , and it does seem a tad familiar at times in the way the story gets developed , with only a change in locale , now set in Paris . It's basically an attempt to reunite the two stars in order to make another dent in the box office , so though they're back , this movie can't be taken all too seriously . It plays out like a cartoon for adults , though the local distributor decided to edit portions of the French revue scene to obta in a rating that everyone can go to . If anything , stay behind for the outtakes , which triumphs over the main offering , hands down .
A Nutshell Review : Doom	You are in the wrong movie if you ask for a plot in Doom . If there's any , it stays true to the game - shoot anything that breathes , which is uttered many times in the latest movie adapted from computer games , off the heels of Resident Evil and Tomb Raider . I might try - a group of RRTS troops ( read : Universal Soldier type , it even plays out that way ) gets sent to Mars to uncover some weird occurrences in some high tech lab dealing with genetics . Soon , the victims become mutations of various kinds and all hell breaks loose as we follow the crew into the labyrinth of an underground lab full of dark skanky corridors right off the set of Aliens . It's nothing fancy , but it works . The filmmakers try to up both the intelligence and babe factor by introducing Bond Girl Rosamund Pike ( she's a distraction alright ) to the plot , but her ahem assets fail to maximise the thin plot . With mercenary soldiers , we see the typical stereotyped characters like the rookie , the maverick , the questionable orders , and the hero with a buried past . One major gripe I had with this movie , is the language . If the scripts says to swear , then please swear using as much colourful and vulgar words . Don't have it filmed , then decide during post production to tone it down , which means to re-record the audio and dub it over . So The Rock might mouth an " F-word " , doesn't take a genius to realize that the word finally heard - " idiot " is two-syllable , and makes the movie like one of the old Clint Eastwood spaghetti westerns . Plenty of moments like this . Worse , while Rosamund Pike was uttering a slew of scientific mumbo-jumbo , her mouth doesn't even move ! ! ! The editors need to be shot up the rear by the BFG . Speaking of BFG , it's disappointing . For fans , this is THE weapon to use as you blast away anything that moves . In the film , the buildup , fanfare and respect given to the Big Fat Gun ( as The Rock calls it . I know you fans have a more impolite name for it ) doesn't justify its short life-span on screen . Worse , there's only ONE BFG used in the entire movie , for a total of like , 2 shots ? The much touted first-person shooter ( FPS ) view , adapted straight from the game , turned out to be no longer than 5 minutes . So for all you viewers who are worrying that the FPS view will get you all nauseous , you might want to reconsider . I thought it could be longer , and earlier , but it wasn't . Pity . However , the special effects , for what it's worth , is pretty nifty . Well , this area isn't much of a challenge , having source material come from a computer game , you couldn't and shouldn't do much wrong here . Strictly for fans of the game to see how it's played out on screen , and for those who like a dose of some mindless action , led by The Rock . Hmm . . . did I just see him raise his eyebrow ?
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Alexander the Great	I borrowed this movie with one intent , and that is to see how the subject material was handled in the 50s , compared to the most recent interpretation by Oliver Stone , who gave us an Alexander with Colin Farrell complete with his hair dyed blonde . And while I was lamenting the fact that there were only 2 war scenes on a massive scale included in that version , the hype that surrounded the story of a conqueror seemed to have made way for Stone's very queer depiction on the bisexuality of Alexander , especially with the camera adopting his POV and gazing ever so lovingly at the male species , countless of times until you want to throw up . I guess subtle is never in Stone's books . Now this version written and directed by Robert Rossen ( who also gave us the original Hustler ) did away with all that sexuality issues , and neither did it find any need to have gratuitous nudity in watching Alexander make love ( in Stone's version , Rosario Dawson went nude in her role as Roxane ) . Then again it was made about 50 years ago . Anyway , what I found to be a major disappointment , were the battle scenes . Yes , it might be terribly dated by now , and sadly didn't survive the test of time . At certain scenes and angles , it's akin to old martial arts movies , where enemies just circle around you , waiting for their choreographed moves to be executed , or worse , if you pay attention to characters in the background , they surely aren't moving like ferocious warriors , choosing instead to mull around ! Also , we only get one major battle sequence in Alexander the Great , which made the foray into India in Stone's Alexander look like bonus material . In fact , this version took some time to establish key characters , and began with Alexander's father King Philip's ( Fredric March ) conquests first , interrupted by the birth of his son , and the prophetic signs under which he was born . It took almost 30 minutes before you see any semblance to a fight , and almost one hour before Richard Burton finally takes over the mantle and seeks out his destiny as one of the greatest known world conquerors of all time . However , the film felt like it was in two arcs , the first which dwells on the internal bickering within Greece with its many factions , and the plotting between mother Olympias ( Danielle Darrieux ) and King Philip , each wanting to win over Alexander's loyalty for their own political purpose . In this version though , which harped on Darrieux's appearance in the credits , I thought she made Angelina Jolie look more formidable in the role . At least Jolie was dripping with evilness and cunning , compared to the more subdued Darrieux . The latter half dealt with Alexander's conquests through Asia , though most of the facts were glossed over . It was too little too late as most of which are told using montage , intertitles and narration , which made it look like a rush job to end it . While Stone's movie had focused a fair bit over Alexander's obsession with being the Son of God and his increasing obsession over himself and his glories , this version again made those themes look superbly examined in Stone's version . However , one thing's for certain , Richard Burton , even with the horribly blond hair which looked like a wig , was indeed a lot more charismatic and believable than Coliln Farrell . And that also meant when Burton was wearing the horrendous full faced helmet so that the stunt guy can take over ! All in all , a pretty decent effort in telling the story of Alexander the Great , however as mentioned , it didn't really stood up to the test of time .
A Nutshell Review : My Bloody Valentine 3	Possibly one of the first 3D horror flicks ever , I just couldn't pass this up , and neither could many others , judging by the enthusiastic response and anticipation in the theatre hall just because of the novelty factor , with oohs and ahhs being echoed each time something seem to fling itself from the screen toward the audience . And I'm only talking about the trailer there . I guess it will take a while for the novelty to wear off , though until then , with the selection of 3D films thus far screened at an affordable price , it might just be one of the pull factors to draw in the crowds and put bums on seats . Like any horror-slasher flick with potential to become a franchise , My Bloody Valentine started off with a bang , and if not for some sporadic body counts in between to lift the narrative sag , it would have been sunk way before the long-drawn finale . To horror buffs , the clues as to the identity of the killer miner would be so obvious , that you'd just be crossing your fingers in the hope that you're wrong . It begins with a brief history of The Miner Harry Warden who goes on a killing rampage , and in quite exciting terms of torn limbs and dismembered insides . Friends like Sarah ( Jaime King ) , Axel ( Kerr Smith ) and Tom ( Jensen Ackles ) come face to face with the killer on night in a party in the mines , only for the police to intervene and save the town of Harmony . Fast forward 10 years later , and we see Sarah and Axel married , with Tom dropping by after his disappearance that night to rekindle some old flame . But his return also heralds the beginning of brutal killings in the modus operandi of The Miner , and it is only natural that suspicion will fall upon the prodigal son's return , if not for the picture of other characters being painted in unsavoury terms to provide a whole host of suspects . It's the usual pursuit of a killer who's always one step ahead , and in between we have some attempted drama between love lost , and Valentine's Day being in the the festival of choice ( hence the title ) to set this story against . But this aspect of a love triangle fell flatly on its face , and seriously , we're not here for the strength of the plot , but by the variety of ways the body count gets chalked up . To that , there's no shortfall of bloody gore , as you can imagine how creative one can be with the weapon of choice ? a pick axe ? being in the hands of a psychotic killer . For instance , there's impalement by the masses through different body parts as entry points . You name it , you get it , from the eye to the top of the head , from midsections cut open to what I thought was the best use of a shovel thus seen in a slasher flick . Being in 3D also meant the gore factor got cranked up a notch , since copious amounts of blood come splashing onto you , and you just might duck when the pick axe got swung in your direction . Some may comment that I'm being a sadist , but I suppose films designed in such nature are for those who expect exactly that , for entertainment and fun escapism , not meant to win awards . No new ground was broken as a horror movie because it too relied too much on the usual loud banging noises , sudden appearances and quick edits . It makes no qualms to appeal to the lowest denominator and doesn't even attempt to build up any atmosphere . It does take a while to get to the fun bits , and when it does you'll probably find yourself enjoying every sick part of it . The only obstacle standing in its way of become a franchise spawning many sequels , is the stark lack of motivation of the killer , other than of course being plain psychotic , which is the requisite , and demonstrated so in quite haphazard terms with dots left unconnected . Should you decide to watch this , do yourself a big favour and do so only on the 3D format . And stay right through to the end after the credits roll for that one final swing .
A Nutshell Review : Mr . Average	Mr Average is quite unlike The Truman Show . In the latter , Jim Carrey's titular character is bred and born for the role as the reality television star who lives a lie , and that product placement is but part and parcel to insert advertisements for the long running show . In Mr Average , it has quite a lot to say about polls and opinions , and boiled down into becoming a predictable romantic tale . And the way the romantic tale gets played out seemed quite like that in Knocked Up , where a femme fetale type falls in love with the unlikeliest of guys . Too good to be true of course , and most of the time happening in movieland . Jalil ( Khalid Maadour ) is the latest sensation in a television game show " Your Choice is Right " , and having attracted incredible ratings , he becomes the " It " boy , and finds himself in a new apartment bought on the cheap , just in time to furnish it with his winnings from the game . And as lady luck would have it , along comes va-va-voom Claire ( a very beautiful Caroline Dhavernas , who reminds me of Claire Forlani ) whom he meets on the set of the show , and before you can say " rigged " , he falls hard for the one girl who's the planted mole by the marketing agency , subtly ( to us in the audience at least ) pushing products for his one liner opinions . The film explores the power of opinions , how dominant ones tend to influence those on the fringes to swing votes in their favour . Martketeers would probably pay obscene amounts of money in order to harness opinions the way it does in the movie , especially when one man's sentiment echoes the choice of the masses . Why waste time conducting surveys of thousands to get the average consensus , when you can monitor and put on surveillance one man , and work on the choices he makes , without him knowing of course , lest the outcome is influenced and becomes skewed . And the possibilities and combination of data that can be mined are incredible . You can have choices made for products ranging from the style to colour , and more importantly , what works and what doesn't , what could be hot and what could be lacklustre . Naturally the scenario here , a man who's consistently correct and represents the opinions of the masses , is too good to be true and highly unlikely given probability , but one can just imagine the potential that can be harnessed from such an individual . But a movie that deals with the science and fiction of such coincidence doesn't make it quite interesting does it , and may jolly well run out of steam . So there's where the romantic angle comes into play , providing food for thought about relationships in general , that one has to be based on the foundations of trust , without which the negativeness of suspicion will come in and ruin everything . I thought this aspect of it was solely on the shoulders of the Claire character , where we see how she struggles with being undercover , and yet experiencing the difficulty of distancing herself emotionally from a man she starts to slowly fall in love with . Mr Average , in being average , certainly does have his share of moments , and the last act clearly demonstrates his harnessing of his abilities to milk his potential for his own personal gain . Mr Average doesn't start off strongly in establishing its characters and premise . In fact , it begins quite poorly and sets out to almost confuse unknowingly with its myriad of movement and wacky game show antics , coupled with some snazzy special effect that doesn't really cue you in , until some time into the movie where you can piece things together , or you'd have to rely on The Truman Show to provide some possible background knowledge on what could currently develop from that point on . If I had to sum it up succinctly , Mr Average tried hard enough to transcend its title , but ultimately what came across is like it's title indeed . An average romantic comedy movie .
A Nutshell Review : Factory Girl	It took me that long to finally watch Factory Girl , a story which tells of a wealthy party girl , a poor little rich kid's trials and tribulations , her parties and the friends she keeps , her influences and vices ranging from hard drinking to drug taking . No , it's not about Paris Hilton ( you can wager some money that one will be out in future ) , but probably a precursor to her , a woman called Edie Sedgwick , who lived and died hard and fast . It's not the first time where we have rich young girls choosing a totally different career path for herself , the other in recent memory being Domino Harvey , played by Keira Knightley in Domino . Sienna Miller has an uncanny facial resemblance to the real Edie Sedgwick , and hence an almost automatic choice in taking on the character . This movie brings us on a journey of her very short life , having passed away before reaching 30 years of age . We see the wrong choices she makes in life , her clueless attitude in coasting along with her drug addiction and decadent celebrity lifestyle , having been brought about Superstardom by the famous Andy Warhol ( an almost unrecognizable Guy Pearce ) through his casting her in his avant garde movies , and constant media praising . The factory in Factory Girl refers to Andy Warhol's studio , a warehouse where he lets his creativity run free . Akin to Hugh Hefner's Playboy Mansion if I may say , where you see plenty of leeches doing what they do best , and that's to kiss Warhol's rear . In some ways , Factory Girl examines how Warhol has a huge impact to Sedgwick's life , her being his muse , and frequently seen and photographed together . But the portrayal here makes him look very much a pompous prick who has problems with his own sexuality , though adopting a very protective attitude towards his exploited creations , nary sharing his wealth with his posse , who are probably satisfied with licking up the crumbs that get fallen off the table . But the more peculiar bit of casting and characterization , is that of Hayden Christensen's " Musician " , an amalgamation of boyfriends that Sedgwick has , but implicitly , and quite obviously through the make up and costumes , that Bob Dylan's the one being referred to here . While we see how the clash of egos between Warhol and Musician comes to drastically affect Sedgwick's life , the movie didn't evoke any sense of pity on Sedgwick , and more often than not , makes us feel that she deserves whatever punishment that Life is dishing out to her . The presentation styles adopted in this movie by George Hickenlooper were pretty mixed , constantly shifting visual techniques from documentary styled interviews , to the incorporation of remade avant garde movies , from colour to black and white . While the focus is supposed to be on Edie Sedgwick given the title , in reality , Andy Warhol as a character gets to share just about as much spotlight , probably because he's the more famous of the two , and Guy Pearce looks like a carbon copy of the real deal , taking a leaf out of Philip Seymour Hoffman's playing of Truman Capote , only with an increased amount of meanness . When the end credits rolled , interviews with real friends and relatives tell us a little bit more on Edie , but I felt it was too little too late , that the movie itself squandered this opportunity to tell a more compelling narration of her life . Instead , those interested in more would probably hit Wikipedia and do some reading up on Andy Warhol , and Edie Sedgwick .
A Nutshell Review : Just Follow Law	Jack Neo is undoubtedly Singapore's most commercially successful director , having made 10 films ( including this one ) , and almost each time , you'd hear his movies topping the charts and breaking box office records . His films touch the common heartlander chord with his fusion of satire and subtle jabs at topical issues , much akin to his skits during his Comedy Night days , and given a huge fan base built , it's no surprise if local audiences turn up in hordes to lap up his latest offering which set its sights on the civil service . Almost everyone can identify with the frustrations of red tape bureaucracy , that incident of unpleasantness with staff in their less than helpful robotic stick-to-the-rulebook answers , and of course , attempts to shift responsibility and cover their rears . Wait ! Doesn't that sound familiar , like what every other company employee will do as well ? For the first twenty minutes , it's recounting office politics 101 with spot on accuracy , jazzed up by some special effects , as every tactic in the office politic arsenal get brought out to the table . The story is set in a fictitious government body which is tasked to create jobs and encourage skills upgrading . But the fact is that almost everyone in the department needs a serious upgrade and look at themselves . You can spot the inept CEO , the conniving scheming colleagues , the unskilled miscellaneous workers , the bootlickers , and the elite scholars all having a go at each other . And at times when you laugh at their antics , somehow you're wondering if you're laughing at yourselves , especially when you recall incidents you experienced , or characters whom you see in others . While the idea was there , the delivery was somehow let down . It played out quite childishly , and looked more like mini school skits put together in a very choppy manner . You don't fault the number of ideas the story writers have , but rather at their inability to gel them all together into an engaging narrative from start until end . At times you might think you're watching a tele-movie plagued by too many minor characters , each being a one - dimensional mouth piece for the issues they represent . Casting Fann Wong was a coup , as she's one of the top darlings of Caldecott Hill . And one of the appeal in watching the movie , is to see how she junks her glamorous goody-two-shoes image , for a comedic role requiring her to act like a siao char bor ( mad woman ) . And she pulled it off with aplomb , which is what manages to hold the attention of the audience . She burbs , farts , frequently molests herself by grabbing her boobs , walks like a beng , talks like a beng , swears like a beng too . According to reports , her minders got into fits with her role as Tanya Chew the scholar manager , who got her body swapped with Gurmit Singh's Lim Teng Zui , a lowly employee , as it called for her to act against her image . Well , she sure have thrown caution to the wind and it turned out well , but I thought she could have gone further , instead of having to rely on cheap editing tricks . If Fann Wong acting like a man raised interest , the same couldn't be said for Gurmit's role as a woman , as it sure isn't like Mrs Doubtfire or Tootsie . It's relatively muted , and when the pairs on screen together , there is no doubt as to who is the movie star , with Fann giving the veteran comedian a run for his money . Although they have some chemistry together , I thought the story and dialogue sometimes lapsed into the two characters being their correct selves instead of their swapped ones . The other supporting characters are played by the usual faces from television , and are caricatures requiring As mentioned earlier , scenes are usually made out of mini skits which try to be funny in itself , and then glued together with the lazy fade out transitions for the most parts . While there is a resemblance of a main plot , the subplots display meek attempts at comedy , or stick out like a sore thumb trying to shovel its social message down your throats , at times presenting itself awkwardly in out of place scenes . Being a Jack Neo movie , product placement is never far away , and in his latest offering , there are plenty of opportunities for product placement , which are milked to the max , one of which I thought was a mistake in having Fann seen in an advert . Jack too can't help but to put himself in a cameo , and hammering referential jabs in the script at the government ( 66 . 6 % for a test out of 84 , it doesn't come across any clearer than that ) . The production values seem mixed though . Despite being budgeted at more than a million dollars , the look and feel at times seem like a million dollars , and at times , just felt cheap . There are a lot of special effects put into the movie , and that probably took a huge chunk from the budget , as did Fann Wong's paycheck . The effects though were rather surreal which brought out some fantastical feelings about the movie , and were also used as substitutes for obvious stunts or backdrops that proved relatively costly to make . For once , I was of the opinion that the songs in the movie weren't necessary as they failed to elicit or enhance the mood of the scene , and was there a recycling attempt at using one of the songs from an earlier film ? Just Follow Law will do well , given Fann's against-the-grain role , something audiences would not have seen before , and the fact that it's opening this Lunar New Year period . Fans of Fann , and the usual support base of Jack Neo , will definitely make this movie a hit . A pity that it could have been much better .
A Nutshell Review : The Condemned	At first glance , the storyline looks like a distant cousin to the Japanese movie Battle Royale . Instead of having sent unruly students to an island and see them finish off one another , The Condemned follows the same lines of having 10 death row prisoners from around the world being brought to an island , and given a simple rule to kill everyone else in order to earn their survival , and freedom . They are similarly rigged with an explosive device which if tampered , or if they choose not to participate , they too will be blown to bits . But there's where the similarity stops . There's no PA system to tell the scattered involuntary participants just how many survivors there are ( thus leading to a loophole ) , and there are multiple camera rigs installed on the island , for the purpose of entertainment . The Condemned plays on some of our intrinsic nature of wanting to watch gladiatorial styled violence , and given that such content will probably never get on the TV networks , the fairly sci-fi turned reality TV over IP concept gets its airtime here . What networks refuse to screen and produce , you can , given the right equipment and personnel , and plenty of computing power . Pay-per-view IPTV using credit cards is the road to riches for the game producer Ian Breckel ( Robert Mammone ) , who champions the thought of producing content that audiences around the world want to watch . His argument was that these handpicked participants are going to die anyway , and here , he's giving one of them the chance to live , a noble gesture to him . The Condemned mocks today's reality TV format , in that sometimes , the game can be manipulated to satisfy the producers ' objectives , and we see that in abundance here . Violence it seems is high on the agenda here - how much can an audience stomach , especially if say hypothetically , Big Brother type of series allow violence to be met out live , unedited and raw . Or are you going to play to those who pay , and give in to the demand ? There's a constant argument being played out early in the movie about dignity and decency , but that gets forgotten fairly easily in a film like this one , falling victim to its own preachy statements . Especially so when Sports Entertainment companies like WWE are involved in this one . WWE had its fair share of stars lending their " acting talent " to Hollywood , and I can go as far back as the late Andre the Giant lending his physical presence in The Princess Bride . Then you have Hulk Hogan in various forgettable flicks , The Rock in some charismatic roles ( though some are as cheesy as that in Be Cool ) , and Kane in the horrid See No Evil . Here , Stone Cold Steve Austin plays the lead role of Jack Conrad , an inmate with an unspecified past , who becomes someone more than anyone had bargained for . But the star unfortunately is not Austin , as much as he plays the anti-hero . Vinny Jones , as British prisoner Ewan McStarley , clearly stole his thunder , and injected more personality into his maniacal character . While the format of the game had the prisoners from different parts of the world to allow everyone a chance to root for their home players , it was at times ironic that USA had to battle UK so prominently in the movie , and that the " with me or against me " line just brings to mind the many scenarios as played out ever so often . It's ra-ra for the USA in an in-your-face fashion , with eye-for-an-eye violence dished out for avenging the weak and wounded , and the showing of compassion to those who needs it . The make up of the team of pla yers too is interesting on purpose , with female players up against male ones ( and what happens is such an easy guess ) , and Survivor styled formation of alliances , outwitting , outlasting , outplaying all being key to survival , but the story , with so many characters , dictate that you cannot go beyond what is superficially shown . Of course the leads got a little more background to show for , but you find that these happen to be just cosmetics , unnecessarily inflating the screening duration . The Condemned tried to be a little deep , but ended up tossing its attempts aside to settle for an all out action movie towards the end , and what I thought was bordering on the ridiculous at Austin's ability . For action junkies , the sequences here might be a little repetitive with its usual big explosions , and the extreme closeups of violence using the shaky hand-held camera technique just irritates . If the premise still excites you after all the mentioned flaws , then The Condemned managed to appeal to you with its in-movie concept - I think you'll pay US $49 . 95 should there be a channel like this on the internet .
A Nutshell Review : First Love	Based on the " autobiography " of Misuzu Nakahara , I won't deny that what intrigued me to picking up this DVD was its premise of having it set against Japan's single largest heist to date , where 300 million yen ( back in the 60s ) was stolen in broad daylight without a loss of life . I've always enjoyed heist movies , though First Love may not be a title that one will automatically associate with a crime . Robbery under audacious circumstances , and one that's based on an historical incident , what's there not to like ? Alas the film decided to mash too much into a movie , what with troubled , idle and idealistic teenagers thrown into the mix to bloat the running time , and a romance that just wasn't . This is no Bonnie and Clyde , and we see how a lonely teenager in search of belonging , get sucked into a group of riotous teens , only to have director Yukinari Hanawa decide to summarize their group dynamics for the aforementioned robbery because the teenagers are getting quite a handful to manage , especially when they do not have much personality to begin with , and have little to show for except to get into fights and having sex . Aoi Miyazaki stars as Misuzu , the character supposedly based on the writer's real life , or so she claimed . Living with relatives , she soon finds herself gravitating toward a bunch of youths based at the B Jazz Bar , and in a strange initiation rite , gets accepted by the group , led by Ryo ( played by Aoi Miyazaki's real life brother Masaru ) . However , she's still the loner and the quiet one within the gang , and is in contrast to the plenty of empty vessels who make a lot of noise in the group , seeking attention where it's not wanted , especially with the authorities who don't hesitate to use violence on any group of rioting teens . After a series of slow , emo-inducing scenes where she plays observer , the pace starts to pick up when fellow loner Kishi ( Keisuke Koide , of Cyborg , She ) begins to put his plan into action . He's quite the patient fellow , in planning way ahead into the future , starting with hooking Misuzu up with an elderly man at a motorcycle shop , in order to teach her how to ride . After successful competency , he drops the bombshell , that she is to help him in his planned heist , and takes her on a recce . It's an extremely simple mission , so simple that it borders on the absurd , like taking candy from the hands of a toddler , without the need for brute force or sophisticated equipment . It takes some 50 minutes to get to this point , before we get to see Murphy's Law get exacted , and then unfortunately Hanawa's shortcomings to have this wrapped up also got exposed . The film never knew just how to end , and again , plodded along its way to the finale which is quite lacklustre , before decided to stick to the tried and tested . I felt that some 30 minutes could have been shaved off its running time , and the focus put back into the relationship between Misuzu and Kishi . Since the title both in Chinese and English suggested that hint of romance , that angle could have been explored to more depth . After all , having it all come crashing down with realization in the last 10 minutes doesn't quite cut in , and in so verbatim methods too . It's a bit like a cheat sheet , because all the while both Aoi Miyazaki and Keisuke Koide both played their friendship in very platonic terms . From the angle of the heist and why one would say yes , it wasn't because she was doing it for someone she liked , but rather to repay the attention and acknowledgement given to her , from someone who dished it out in loads . It's more of a lonely person afraid of being cast aside , that she decided to say yes to committing a crime . Not to mention too that she had pretty good cover to shield herself from the potentially massive investigations to follow . Aftter the statutes of limitations was issued , there still wasn't anyone who owned up to the crime , and I guess Misuzu Nakaharra had capitalized on this to release her so-called autobiography claiming her involvement in the infamous crime . Naturally this incident has become stuff of dramas and movies such as First Love , but this one somehow fell a little bit short in not being able to fully craft itself from a more compelling story . Nothing fancy here , but it somehow worked to a certain degree .
A Nutshell Review : A Time to Love	How long will you wait for somebody you love ? Will you hold on to that hope and have faith , or will you buckle at the uncertainties , and choose to move on ? You'll never know until you're in it , and are forced to make some decisions . While you can decide for yourself , you'll never really know how the other half will fare , especially if it's long distance . A Time to Love , starring Lu Yi and Zhao Wei as star-crossed lovers , adapts the basic premise from Shakespeare's timeless romantic tragedy , Romeo and Juliet . The references are countless , be it direct like the very cheesy replication of the famous Act II Scene II , or indirectly . As childhood sweethearts , their love for each other is forbidden by their respective families due to a mysterious feud between the heads of the households . So long as it remains mysterious , so too will their love be hidden away from their families , resulting in stealing glances , and meeting up in secret . But how long can this continue before taking its toil , especially when one turns out to be a high flyer and ambition gets in the way ? Even the characters fit R & J to a T . Lu Yi's Hou Jia is actually quite wishy-washy , afraid to express his feelings for his love , and is kept in his place by his wheelchair bound mother . Probably out of filial piety , given that it's a Chinese / Asian virtue , but having her dictate his life , is probably as pathetic as can be . There are times though , that as his character develops , it threads on dangerous ground just as the cad that Lu Yi played in Jasmine Woman , starring yet another Chinese actress who have made international waves , Zhang Ziyi . Zhao Wei's Qu Ran on the other hand , is as strong in character as Juliet , the one calling the shots on how she wants to live her life , and to love who she wants to , despite her parental objections . Zhao Wei herself lights up the screen with her scenes each time , and no doubt her bright illuminating eyes contribute to that effect , expressing her fear , anger , loneliness , happiness , all rolled into one and projected through the windows of the soul . The movie , itself based on a short story , contains plenty of cheesy moments that will probably be appreciated by the romantics , or cringe just about every general movie going audience . Familiar themes for romantic movies are at their element here , with beautiful camera shots setting up scenes of isolation , and of waiting , and bringing to life the love between our lovers . There is a sex scene ( gasp ) but you don't get to see much . There are some movies that perpetually shoot itself in the foot with its bad ending . You know , those that have an excellent build up , right until the finale , but destroys all the good work done with the very last frame . You can add this movie to that list of yours . While the non-romantics would have already rolled their eyes as the story progressed , those who are holding out until the end will probably be nodding in unison with its open ended third act , but unfortunately , that dumb final line had to appear as the end title . And no , it's not " The End " , but by doing that , it robbed the movie of whatever shreds of credibility it tried to keep alive , and topped it with stinky cheese . P . S . It's a pity that this movie only had less than 10 persons in the audience , one of whom is Kenneth Tan himself . Guess having two film festivals running side by side , in the holiday season of December , does take its toil on the attendance of festival movies .
A Nutshell Review : Bee Movie	Let's see , we have A Bug's Life , then Antz , then the insect animated films gave way to a host of animal talkies , including dancing penguins , cows with confused genetic makeup , and zoo animals thinking they're better off in the wild , chef rats , amongst an array of hits and misses , recycling the same old tactics and game plan to snare the movie going audience . Wise-cracking animals , check . Pop culture references , check . CG animation that resembles the real world , check . Celebrity voices , let's see , we have Jerry Seinfeld , Renee Zellweger , Matthew Broderick , John Goodman , Chris Rock , Larry King , Ray Liotta , Sting , Barry Levinson , Kathy Bates , and even Oprah Winfrey . But we all know by now that you can throw in the craziest antics , stuff the movie with recognizable voices , but Pixar has taught the lesson that it always boils down to the strength of the story . And this is what Bee Movie is severely lacking . Not that it didn't try , but it went tangential to what it probably had intended , and it spawned into a big bag unmanageable hydra . Jerry Seinfeld is Barry Benson , a bee who refuses to conform to the laws of nature to having become stuck in a one-role job for the rest of his life . Before committing himself to menial tasks in the honey making process , he decides to venture out with the cool pollen collectors and see the outside world . And in the process , comes into direct contact with Vanessa Bloome the florist ( voiced by Zellweger ) . Oh , did I also mention that bees speak English ? It's just that they adhere to Commandment Number One that they shut their traps so that we won't know they understand us . Yeah right . So if you'd believe that , you'd believe anything that the movie throws at you . It becomes a courtroom drama with the usual lawyer jokes thrown in . It becomes an anti-worker exploitation movie , to stand up for the little ones , with reminders that small things matter in the whole scheme of things . It becomes a documentary on the laws of nature and the environmental / ecological equilibrium that has to be maintained . And the ultimate out of place scene involves a bloody jumbo jet in the sky in homage to the Airplane spoofs . Yes , while I know Bee Movie pays its homage to B-movies , you'd probably still wonder what the scriptwriters had in the coffee . But given its multiple personality and indecision to focus on something that it can chew , the graphics here are still no less than stunning . The bees in flight , with the mashing of the black and yellow , is pure poetry in motion , blending well with various backgrounds , be it the city skyline , or the green lungs with colourful flowers dotting the landscape . It's extremely fluid with attention paid to the details , and would be worth every penny should there be an IMAX version of this portion of the movie . Such scenes warrant the price of an admission ticket , but alas , more could have probably been done to save the movie . Bee Movie is again targeted at kids , although chances are they'll miss the many adult jokes and references so come fast and furious ( some of which just fall flat unfortunately ) . And having a lack of " cute " characters , might dent its appeal , and narrow merchandising opportunities . Better luck next time Jerry !
A Nutshell Review : Bride Wars	Anne Hathaway rules the screens this month in Singapore , with three movies hitting the screens - Rachel Getting Married , Passengers , and now teaming up with Kate Hudson for my second wedding theme movie of the day , Bride Wars . Alas this film by director Gary Winick had the trailer to thank for in letting every cat out of the bag that there's little surprise left when the girls have a go at each other . Liv ( Hudson ) and Emma ( Hathaway ) are best friends since young , where they were subconsciously programmed that they must be each other's maid of honour , as well as to have their weddings at New York's swanky The Plaza in June . Fast forward to today , and they are on the cusp of their engagements , which of course meant that they do get to finally turn their long held dreams into reality . From being girly about attending each other's events to engaging one of the finest wedding planners ever , Marion St . Claire ( Candice Bergen ) , little do they know a small administrative screw up will threaten their very friendship . One wonders if girls can indeed be so petty over such little details . You see , the entire plot hinges on this very fine condition that the two girls hold onto , and that is to be each other's maid of honour . Which doesn't make sense because they can each have their wedding on the same day and at the same venue ( different ballrooms of course ) , but because of their insistence to be present at their best friend's wedding , they fall out , insult each other , and declare war . So only if you buy that wee bit of irrationality ( OK , so some claim that the opposite sex can get unreasonable from time to time . . . ) do you buy into the entire bickering , where they go one up against the other , sabotaging plans to be at their best come their wedding day . It also helps that the demeanour of the girls are on opposite sides of the spectrum , with Liv being the alpha-female go-getter who doesn't take no for an answer , and Emma the good natured sweetheart . Of course the series of back-biting do change their characters both for the worse and for the better . Best friends can become your worst enemies since they know every dirty little secret you had confided in them before , and can exploit your very weakness to gain an advantage , so one can find it easy to identify with the predicament of both sides . Those who suffer will nonetheless be the common friends , who have to sit on the fence and not take sides . The trailer has spelt out the storyline and laid out the best jokes on the table , so unless you're really hard up for jokes that you know the punchline to , this may be just an average chick flick . Having it rated PG ( instead of the original NC-16 ) also meant that some of the more coarse dialogue in Marion St . Claire's meeting with the girls , get chopped off quite abruptly .
A Nutshell Review : The Unborn	Written and directed by David S . Goyer , who is still in his infancy in being at the helm of feature films , but no stranger to writing screenplays from the horror genre to the reboot of the Batman franchise , you would have thought that he might have steered clear of the usual clichés that plague a horror film . Imagine that the following all made it to his film The Unborn - mirrors , demonic kids , setting in toilets , insects , darkened corridors , dogs , haunting nightmares , and of course , a pretty woman in the lead . If you'd think Odette Yustman is such a familiar face , then perhaps you would remember that this pretty face had the power to influence a guy and his friends to trek halfway across a city to save her from a leaning skyscraper , while a monster rampages New York City in Cloverfield . Such is her influence , and here , she's Casey Beldon , a teenager whose mom had inexplicably hung herself , and her dad being conveniently out of town the entire time she's in distress . Her influence ? Being able to arrest everyone's attention in having the assets to prance around in undies ( camel toe alert ! ) , and convincing that she's not a nutcase imagining things , to have a rabbi ( Gary Oldman , what a surprise actually ) help her perform an exorcism on herself . Not slamming Goyer's story for the sake of doing so , as he actually had quite an interesting tale involving some bits of history , the phenomenon of twins , the kabbalah thrown together in a nice mish-mash . If a horror film needed a reason for you to anchor your disbelief to in order to enjoy some illogical moments of scare , then Goyer had a wealth of subplots and rationale going on . Unfortunately , the pacing was a bit strange as the middle portion really sagged and got bogged down by uninteresting , supporting characters such as Meagon Good as Casey's BFF Romy and a fair weathered boyfriend ( well , more like forgotten for the most parts ) Mark Hardigan ( Cam Gigandet from Twilight ) . I suspect that there probably was some unceremonious tinkering to the story , or in having some sections rearranged during post , which accounts for the rather choppy narrative . Some parts didn't gel too well , and stuck out like a sore thumb when you feel that it's chronologically messy . There were very little scary moments , to my surprise , though I had to admit there were some " instant " scare moments that genuinely made me ( ahem , and the audience ) jump at our seats . Credit too has to be given to the make up team , and the special effects crew for rigging some really insane visuals , though the spidery walking scene with heads upside down reminded me of The Exorcist . And if homage is Goyer's idea here , then there were additional attempts , and the one which made me burst our laughing , was the mention that holy books and instructional manuals on shooing the devil away , are only effective if the users truly have immense faith and belief in this sort of things . Fright Night was the film that said something similar to the effect that it stuck on me , and hearing something along the same lines just cracked me up . But a comedy this is not , just that it's quite economical in the way this is shot , relying on the usual build ups and the cliché springing of surprises when you ( least ) expected them to . If only the finale didn't degenerate into an all out , free for all action fest given the keen anticipation it had built up , nor if it had resembled Fallen too in a way of how the ghouls here are capable of travelling , this would probably have been a more than above average flick .
A Nutshell Review : Faraway Sunset	When I was young , I had placed my hand at a door hinge , and without realizing , my mom slammed the door shut . Naturally the door cannot close , I felt no pain and didn't scream , my mom wondered whether the door was faulty , until we both realized that one of my fingernails was completed smashed in . Then the pain set in , I screamed my lungs out , and the look on my mother's face and reaction , was completely the same as that of Noguchi Hideyo's . Faraway Sunset tells the story of the famed bacteriologist who is known to have discovered the agent that cause syphilis , and for his relentless search for a cure to yellow fever . As a toddler , his mother's neglect had caused an accident to his left hand , fusing together all the fingers in a bizarre twist of fate . Naturally extremely remorseful for being the cause of her son's handicap , she does everything she could to ensure that he gets to lead a normal life , despite having to fend off bullies and unfair prejudices . If you're wondering if the movie provides you any insights to his professional life , then you , like me , would be disappointed . That part of his life is only glossed over quite quickly , and what's the main meat in Faraway Sunset , is the human drama and personal relationships with the different ladies in Noguchi Hideyo's life . Chiefly , it centers on that with his mother , having her cause his handicap , but more than making up for it , as she is probably the main player in getting to wake his idea up , reminding him of the promises he made to achieve his dreams . The other ladies on focus are a fellow Japanese student who spurns his love he has for her every step of the way , and I suspect this is due more to his handicap than anything else . A good loooker no doubt , but one who looks ugly on he inside . And finally you have his American wife , played by Julie Dreyfuss , but in a role that is pretty much a cameo by any standards . But what is inspiring about the character of Noguchi Hideyo , even if you slowly start to loathe his ways , is that he's a go getter who doesn't know when to stop , nor is able to take no for an answer . Relentless in his pursuit either in his love life or his professional objectives , he bugs and begs to be accepted , and has a skin that is extremely thick in order to open his mouth for favours and loans , more often than not , succeeding of course . What I didn't like though , was his triumphant return to Japan . In an effort to gain respect back home where he was despised , he had to make a name for himself worldwide , before deciding to trudge on home soil . And what I thought was particularly unfilial , was that he left the visit of his mom to the very last , after meeting up with politicians , businessmen , and check this , celebrities . What gives ? I felt you should give priority to the lady who sacrificed big time for you , and one who has been bearing the responsibility in trying to make things right within her limited ability . The pace of the movie treads real slow , and told in pseudo-docu style when his professional life is touched upon . As mentioned , the human drama factor takes centerstage here , and Mother's Love cannot be any more than emphasized by the time the end credits rolled .
A Nutshell Review : Dorm	It was quite uncanny , a group of us were discussing making a movie about ghost stories told in schools . Sure , every school has its fair share of ghouls and goblins , and we'd thought it was interesting to have it done on film . Heck , we were actually in the premises of a school when we started to talk about it at night too . So imagine our surprise that Thailand actually made it first , and screened in local theatres no more than a month after we discussed . Dorm refers to the dormitory of an all boys boarding school . Chatree ( Charlie Trairattana ) gets sent to the school by his parents , against his wishes . I believe almost everyone would be familiar with the feeling of being uprooted from one school to go to another ( be it upon graduation or otherwise ) , where there's a sense of loss somewhat , especially with friends . As with all new schools , the new kid on the block gets treated with suspicion , and he finds it extremely difficult to integrate into the school . It doesn't help that his initial gang of friends harbours thoughts of going all out to scare Chatree with many ghosts stories about the school ( I could've sworn the toilet one was familiar territory , because I encountered something similar before ) , and making matters worst , the teacher ( Jintara Sukphat ) also becomes a key character in one of these stories , hence making Chatree wary . Despite being the social outcast , and a recluse , Chatree befriends another pupil , Wichien ( Sirarath Jianthaworn ) . They become fast friends , but Wichien has a deep dark secret come 6pm everyday , when he disappears . By now , you would've guessed what would happen . Along the way , this movie somehow forgotten that it was supposed to be a horror movie . That , or the marketing folks have gotten it all wrong in promoting this flick . The horror genre is undoubtedly an extremely popular genre in Asia , one that will put folks into cinema seats , and riding on the wave of Shutter's success , it's easy to get caught up in what essential are the few and far between sense of fright that's packed into the trailer . Be warned , halfway through the movie , the horrifying moments get thrown out the window , and Dorm becomes more of a standard fare mystery . Quite a plain one actually , as the narrative gets stuck in cruise control throughout . You'll be able to guess the ending , and plot devices are thrown in only to help the movie proceed to the following scene . But there's a fun element thrown in , which I thought was quite neat . Fans of Hong Kong horror cinema would clearly identify the " Mr Vampire " remake in Dorm , where the students congregate for one of their night movie screenings . It's a deliberate cheesy remake , but I felt this was one of the more powerful scenes that snuck up on you , incorporating the twist revelation so well , I give it the thumbs up . And yes , the twist is revealed midway through the movie in this scene , and thereafter , " horror " gets forgotten . How's the horrifying content earlier in the movie you ask ? It's not all that frightening , again relying on cheap tricks like musical crescendos to make you jump . You don't get to see much , except for shadows , sudden movements and closeups ( hey , if I can survive this , so can you ! ) . If I had a gripe , it would be with Chatree's hair continuity problem . Unless there's a barber in the school who cuts hair as good as he restores them , you'll probably get perturbed by the changes in Chatree's hair length . In the same scene . Talking to the same person . You get the drift . It's rather sloppy film-making , and the continuity person ought to get shot . The special effects department though , gets my thumbs up for its imaginary swimming pool effects . Really cool stuff there . Horror aside , this film essentially similar to like M Night Shyamalan's The Sixth Sense , though it doesn't dwell as deep into the psyche of Chatree and the spirit . It works on another level , along the themes of friendship , sacrifice , forgiveness and closure . I'd recommend it , not as a horror movie , but a coming of age one . P . S . the version shown here rated PG , is the censored version . Not because of anything frightening , but for a sex scene , which I thought was quite pivotal to identify who it was Chatree's father was humping . Edited away , it comes across as " so what's the big deal ? "
A Nutshell Review : What Happens In Vegas	My only trip to the US ( not counting the toddler days ) where I can remember what the heck I was doing , was back in December 2005 ( gee , time flies ! ) where I spent a total of 7 full days trawling the streets as well as the casinos up and down the Strip and its outskirts , and seriously , it's never as sexy as that portrayed in the movies ( or that television series ) , though you'd truly never really run out of things to do , despite everything being overly expensive at tourist prices . I think I still possess a mental map of everything on the Strip ! And of course , Vegas is famous amongst other things besides the Elvis impersonators , live entertainment etc , is the ability to conduct quicky marriages , which is what Ashton Kutcher's Jack Fuller and Cameron Diaz's Joy McNally get themselves into during a night of drunken stupor and cheap dares , two lonely souls who journey to Sin City as an escapism from their failed lives , where you can enjoy all the pleasures the city have to offer , before the drudge comes kicking in when you receive that credit card bill . So begins the story when the duo find themselves in a situation to annul their marriage given a night of impulse that they cannot remember , but cannot do so when McNally's quarter was inserted into a jackpot machine by Fuller , and that brought them a cool 3 million dollars jackpot . Which they can't agree how to split the money , and a quirky judge sentenced them to 6 months " hard marriage " to work through their marital vows , before their frozen cash can be touched . As what the trailer had already explicitly spelt out , it's War of the Roses in Mr and Mrs Smith styled couch-therapy sessions by Queen Latifah , with comedy ranging from the slapstick , to the plain juvenile toilet tricks . Attempts to elevate the movie and give the characters more depth , come in the form of Jack Fuller learning to believe in himself and to shed his playboy , non-committal ways , and with Joy McNally having to learn to let her hair down , lighten up , and basically doing something she loves rather than to continue doing things that she dislikes , in true " live your dream " fashion . And throw in a quirky boss and ideal parents into the mix , you'd have a whole host of supporting cast to boost variety in this rather predictable tale , where you can see the outcome shining brightly like a star in a moonless night . I thought Ashton Kutcher and Cameron Diaz could be playing themselves , i . e . one's dating an older woman , the other other no qualms in dating younger men . Well , at least their characters had never felt the need to reveal their ages , but you can tell Diaz is a spring chicken no longer since her big screen debut in The Mask . Typical of all her roles , Diaz again plays a ditzy blonde with quirky skill sets , and I thought somebody should really consider giving her a role in an action movie , since she has on display , really menacing looking biceps , and a scene where she got to show off her combo moves of a right hook and reverse roundhouse kick . Kutcher on the other hand is , well , Kutcher from Punk'd , with nothing really new offered in his role of the smooth talking slacker with brooding good looks . Instead , the one who stole the show was sidekick Rob Corddry as Hater , Fuller's best friend and lawyer . He would already be familiar to some as the crazy Homeland Security agent in Harold and Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay , and I'd stick my neck out to say this is one guy to watch over the next few comedic movies , as he totally let it rip in this movie with his crazy antics . At best , What Happens in Vegas is ideal for those itching for yet another formulaic romantic - comedy from the factories of Hollywood , or for those who missed out on the hot tickets for Speed Racer . Stay behind after the end credits roll for a final coda . There are 2 at the beginning of the end credits , but hold out right until the end before you decide to make for the exit .
A Nutshell Review : Identification of a Woman	As introduced by Lorenzo Codelli , Identification of a Woman was presented in the Cannes Film Festival in 1982 and received a special anniversary award . It's like a personal movie because the lead character Niccolo ( Tomas Milian ) is a film director , and tells of a personal crisis of the filmmaker . Niccolo was played by a leading Italian actor of the time , Tomas Milian , who was famous for his roles in Italian spaghetti westerns , and was an action star . This was essential the last feature film made by Michelangelo Antonioni before his stroke , before which he spent most of the 80s publishing short stories and exhibiting his abstract paintings . And personally , my bad track record with Antonioni's post L'Eclisse movies unfortunately continues . I'm pretty sure I'm missing something very obvious ( or could be it so subtle it eludes me ? ) that I'm finding each of them quite difficult to sit through ( save for perhaps The Passenger ) , and to try and see its underlying meaning . Perhaps I am just scratching the surface and in doing so , fail to appreciate what the movie's about and for . Or maybe Identification of a Woman is indeed the weaker of the lot , because of certain resemblance to plot design with his earlier masterpieces ? For starters there seemed to be some repetitive themes revisited , but that I'm fine with because it made it easier to click with and connect . Just like how Niccolo and his squeeze Mavi ( Daniela Silverio ) spend considerable time at an emotionally empty high society party reminiscent of that in L'Notte , where they nurse issues from the heart , as well as for one to come to terms with the other's secret admirer . Surely the sex is good , and the movie wastes absolutely no time in getting beneath the sheets for some surprisingly erotic time of a horizontal tango complete with underarm forests , but naturally physical love doesn't compensate for emotional depth absent between the lovers , highlighting something inherent wrong in their relationship . Having anonymous threats made to Niccola also didn't help , as he experienced first hand how these threats got carried out to hurt those he loved . We spend a bit of time with their attempts to escape from a stalker , and even had a technically brilliant sequence involving a deep mist that I thought contemporary movies like Frank Darabont's The Mist , or the video game movie adaptation of Shallow Hill , had taken a huge leaf from . For Niccolo's inability to declare his love and address their conflicts , we get a dose of L'Avventura here . Mavi disappears , and we don't really get to see much of her thereafter . Niccolo tries to launch a search , and we get into the second half of the movie where we see his new relationship with a young actress Ida ( Christine Boisson ) . But of course there are issues to grapple with here , and I thought was something I'd understand as well , and that's the continued holding out of the candle for someone else , together with the notion of love versus need , and serving as an emotional crutch . It's not fair of course , but there's more challenges ahead for Niccola in his relationship with Ida to accept , but by the time we get to it , I'd more or less didn't really care for Niccola anymore . Which probably contrasted to a statement which Lorenzo Codelli shared about what Antonioni said regarding this movie being about its characters . I thought his earlier movies had stronger and more interesting characters , or at least those who can hook my attention down and allowed me to care for them a bit , versus those in this movie . Then again , I suspect I may be on a different wavelength since I enjoyed most of Antonioni's earliest works in the 50s , as compared to the more contemporary ones shown this week so far .
A Nutshell Review : Final Destination	I watched Final Destination 3 without watching the first two , so thanks to DVDs , I'm going to make amends . The most I know about the first Final Destination was that explosion onboard an aircraft was one of the most realistic ever , and probably had this movie banned from inflight entertainment systems . Alex Chance Browning ( Devon Sawa ) has a fear of flights , and in his class outing to Paris , he had a premonition about the flight going boom , and created enough a ruckus to have him thrown out of the plane , together with a few of his friends and teacher . Naturally he becomes guilt ridden , and prime suspect when the plane explodes mid-air without a clue as to why ( following the actual TWA flight 800 ) . Together with Clear Rivers ( what a name , played by Ali Larter ) , they discover that if they were destined to die in that flight , then Death will soon be on his way to complete his mission , in the order that they were supposed to go . It brings to mind that our deaths are probably pre-ordained the moment we are born , and death has designed the way we have to go too . The premise is that should you beat that design , then you get a second chance . But are we up to that ? Nope , because we want to see how the cardboard characters get sent on their way . However , the deaths presented here aren't really horrific or designed with grandeur , probably because they don't age so well over time . They do seem rather gimmicky in today's context . Not expecting an adrenaline rush each time the characters die or beat death , the plot does get slowed down because of the romance bit between Alex and Clear ( and most ended up on the cutting room floor ) , so they do come across pretty jarringly . And the group size for death is relatively small , so you don't go beyond that number , including survivors . It's a pretty decent thriller , but a reminder that the nature of these thrillers is that they age quite badly over time .
A Nutshell Review : Strange Wilderness	One of the reasons why I decided to watch this , is because I needed a comedy to laugh at , if it's not possible to laugh together with it . The DVD is already available at the shops , but I don't think I'm ready to fork out a Code 1 DVD price for what's essentially a short comedic film which is based from a Saturday Night Life comedy skit . Written by the same creative team of Peter Gaulke and Fred Wolf with the latter taking on directorial duties as well , Strange Wilderness delivered some genuine laughs , but only if you're tolerant of being insensitive to the kind of subject the film makes fun of . Strange Wilderness is a long running wildlife programme which is now succeeded by Peter ( Steve Zahn ) , the host of the show , whose father had made the programme into one of the best loved prime time shows . Under Peter's leadership , ratings have plummeted , and needless to say even their 3am timeslot is in danger of being canceled . In a last minute desperation for survival , he and his crew have to look for a new way to ensure their programme continues , and dropped at their laps is the opportunity to follow up on a solid lead to the whereabouts of Bigfoot . Eseentially this movie is one big road trip that tells of the crew's journey to documentary history , with the likes of soundman and co-collaborator Fred ( Allen Covert ) , Cooker ( Jonah Hill ) , the only female in the team Cheryl ( Ashley Scott ) , and cameraman Junior ( Justin Long ) , amongst others . And throughout the movie , we see each and everyone of them getting into enough funny scenarios that made this film look like many pieces of skits being glued together , with laughs coming courtesy of sexual innuendos ( you just got to hand it to the turkey ) , sight gags , slapstick and just plain buffoony . In fact , I even suspect that everyone in the cast were on a high as they shot this , as dialogues were laced quite incoherently with plenty of ad-libbing , especially Justin Long , though of course if he's really acting , then kudos to him for being stoned all the time . While giving no respect to wildlife , the funniest moments were reserved for their voice overs of Nature , and it's really quite incredible should anything like it be actually aired for television . They are intentionally full of factual errors , lapse into unnecessary judgmental and slanted viewpoints , but always just plain ridiculously funny . Perhaps I was in crap mode , but the humor here doesn't apologize for any offence made , since after all , the subject matter can't fight back anyway . I know I'm shallow if I say I really couldn't get enough of the film poking fun at the physical features / defects repeatedly . There is no plot in the movie , besides everyone being perpetually broke as they try and scrimp or come out with more hare-brained ideas to fund their movie and fuel the laughs . So the bottomline is , don't expect any genius from Strange Wilderness , but if you're in for some low-brow humor , then this movie might just be the perfect laughing medicine for anyone wanting to chase the blues away , without any medicinal assistance .
A Nutshell Review : Youth of the Beast	Youth of the Beast is pretty much acclaimed , but I just can't appreciate it very much , partly because it's quite a dated film - the 60s , and the execution reminded me of the old 60s Batman and the Green Hornet series , in its noir crime storyline as well as the use of the ol ' fisticuffs to settle scores . Not that I didn't enjoy it though , but my smile stemmed more from the cheesiness . Of course when watching a film from the past , you got to approach it in the context when it was shown in . And it pretty much gave you a glimpse at old Japan , with its production sets , costumes , and acting style - which is exaggerated . Special effects and stunts were quite low key ( probably groundbreaking for the era ) , with some shots suffering from sudden jump cuts , and looking raw . Certain stunts were found to be wanting , but again , for that era , it's adequately executed , though by today's standards , audiences would be more unforgiving . The violence too didn't let up , and for a Yakuza movie , violence is part and parcel to their lifestyle . There are a number of innovative techniques used , such as the flame from an aerosol can , and the insertion of a blade underneath the fingernail as a torture method to inflict pain . I was surprised too at the raw scratching off upholstery from a sofa set , which seemed quite realistically painful for the actress to perform . Director Seijun Suzuki actually helmed the movie Yumeji ( 1991 ) , from which the theme song is used in Wong Kar Wai's In the Mood for Love . Here , he crafts the movie from a novel by Haruhiko Oyabu , which could have served as inspiration for Lucky Number Slevin in its playing off mob bosses . Here , Jo Mizuno ( Joe Shishido ) infiltrates and joins a gang by forcing his way through to the top , beating up everyone and anyone who dare stands in his way . Impressed , he's given a stint with the gang , and slowly , a mystery begins to unravel as to his motivations and objectives to doing what he does . It plays out rather straightforward , and you would have guessed his intentions pretty earlier on in the movie , but what impressed is how simple it is to style a movie in this manner back in the 60s . Taking seemingly simple everyday locations like nightclubs and cinemas and having shady dealings taking place under a legitimate business front , does seem rather suggestive of how gangsters operate at the time . I'd pretty much recommend this to those who have high cheese tolerance , or fans of the swinging 60s era movies . Nothing much really to shout about . The Criterion DVD comes with an essay insert , the theatrical trailer ( 60s trailers all have those sensational big words covering 90 % of the screen , very nostalgic ) , a 4 " 48 ' interview with director Seijun Suzuki , and a 7 " 56 ' interview with actor Joe Shishido . For a Criteriod DVD , it's pretty much barebones by standards .
A Nutshell Review : Kippur	While it's easy to set expectations and think that this could be a Saving Private Ryan / Black Hawk Down type of film ( since the synopsis does reveal a chopper going down ) , this is after all an Amos Gitai film , and I feel this is more Apocalypse Now with The Thin Red Line sensibilities , though with none of Terence Mallick's visual poetry . Based on Gitai's own experience of joining a helicopter rescue crew during the war of Kippur in 1967 , he creates the character of Sergeant Weinraub ( Liron Levo , also seen in Disengagement ) and it's through his eyes that the story unfolds . The film is curiously bookend by some graphic , artistic ( literally , since it involves an incredibly huge canvas and lots of paint ) sex , where Weinraub pounds his girlfriend in an extended scene in the beginning , before the outbreak of war with the attack by Egypt and Syria interrupting his moment of passion , and he picks up friend and officer Lt Ruso ( Tomer Russo ) as they drive back to camp to join their unit . Along the way they meet a number of characters who flit into and out of the story , and soon find themselves in a camp that they could get to , and volunteering to join a makeshift , hastily assembled helicopter unit to fly to the warzone in order to pick up wounded survivors , kind of like a flying ambulance tasked for rescue missions . We learn a thing or two about emergency evacuations , as well as the policy of not transporting the dead in time-critical missions as these , taking only survivors and sticking to their mission objectives . If one does not know that Gitai is at the helm of the film , one could expect an out-and-out war movie , since the scenario painted provides plenty of avenue for such . There are flights into the frontline , and in carrying out their mission , Getai litters the screen with plenty of dismembered bodies up close enough to churn your stomach . There are moments where some action is called for , but these are few and far between since our soldiers are unarmed . For those with Gitai sensibilities , then you'll probably note his preference for long takes , and there was one incredibly long sequence involving a traffic jam and narrow roads , when Weinraub and Ruso are rushing back en route to their camp . Otherwise , most of the shots during war involve tight helicopter interiors , or helicopter overhead views , but through narrow windows , capturing scores of tanks in vast , muddy landscapes ravaged by tracks that had gone past , that you can imagine the scale of the invasion with . Unlike other war films that preach the negative aspects of war , this felt more of a documentary of sorts , since after all it's based upon the director's own experience . Scenes are delivered as a matter-of-fact , sometimes devoid of emotion too as the soldiers go about doing the business , and the plenty of landscape shots are just that and could easily have been representative of news reels back then . Not your conventional war movie , and definitely worthwhile only when the troops hit the ground , and not flying high and far away from the action .
A Nutshell Review : The Women	Written and directed by Diane English , which is based on both the stage play by Clare Boothe Luce and the 1930s movie of the same name , The Women is an update of sorts transplanting stories about the love lives of 4 women friends to modern day New York City , but wait a minute , isn't this Sex in the City ? Not quite . For starters , this movie does not have a Mr Big . In fact , male characters get mentioned , but the high level of girl power meant that men are supposed to be mentioned , but never seen . Nada , zilch . In almost every scene you'll be hard pressed to find the male species in the movie , that you'll almost deem this a terribly sexist movie . The characters too seem like a throwback to SATC and while the characters here are less irritating and less bitchy , that however was part of the fun that was missing here . It's not a bad story , but Diane English had made this feel more like one's watching a stage play rather than a movie . Dialogue becomes lines delivered on cue , with little emotion attached . The plot itself was quite thin , and one could see the actresses trying their best to make their characters seem as three-dimensional and as interesting as they can . Some make the grade , while others like Jada Pinkett Smith , Debra Messing and Eva Mendes weren't given enough screen time to perform adequately . While it preaches girl power , solidarity , empowerment and the likes , what this film essentially is , is a Meg Ryan and Annette Bening show . It's been a long time since I last saw Meg Ryan grace the screen locally , and surprisingly , it didn't seem that she has aged a bit . I deliberately tried to look out for tell tale signs of wrinkles , but age has been extremely kind to her . Annette Bening got the opposite , as she has visibly aged a bit , then again , she plays the more alpha-type role here that seems to be the unsaid leader of the womanly pack . The characters here were a little like SATC's like a mentioned . Bening's Sylvia Fowler is a woman's magazine editor whose job is under threat from young upstarts brimming with fresh creativity . Ryan plays the all American lovely socialite wife Mary Haines juggling with family , career and various obligations , so much so that her husband finds enough time to engage in an extra-marital affair . Her story actually anchors the film and forms the pivot in which all other subplots revolve around . Eva Mendes plays the third party as cosmetics girl Crystal Allen , who hooks up with Mary's husband just because of his social standing and platinum credit card . The typical gold-digger , her role is a typical vamp but much of her screen time shenanigans has already been exposed in the trailers . Then there's homemaker Edie Cohen ( Debra Messing ) who's the mother hen of the lot with her many daughters , and is expecting once again , a task she'll not stop until she gives birth to a son . And Jada Pinkett Smith's Alex Fisher is a lesbian . Err , that's it , because I though Diane English had by the time ran out of ideas what to do with the latter two characters , that they get much reduced roles . It's a plain and simple narrative delivered without much fanfare , but bolstered by female actresses whom those in my generation would have seen them on screen for a fair bit . And I thought the budget was provided to engage the services of the likes of Candice Bergen , Carrie Fisher and even Bette Midler for guest roles , that there wasn't enough money left to hire male actors . So for a very focused and female centric film , The Women , like the title states , is all about the female of the species , the stereotypical woes that they face , and as with all things , everything can be improved with a change in haircut . Unfortunately this movie comes censored , and the unceremonious cut was during a crucial montage sequence where Ryan's Mary Haines picks up the pieces and redesigns her life . I suspect that there was a lot more to it than just the systematic straightening of her hair though . Oh and do stay tuned for the coda at the end of the credits . With some subtle product placement from Dove used during the film , the coda was more explicit , and even had this look and feel of a Dove ad , but of course with the four lead actresses explaining what it takes and feels like to be a real woman .
A Nutshell Review : The Carrot Cake Conversations	Perhaps the only way to enjoy this particular variant of the carrot cake dish is to imagine a fantasy Singapore of sorts , one where prostitutes look like an ex-Miss Malaysia , where people are generally unhappy with their present lot ( ok this might be true after all ) , and all seem to have lack of avenues to vent their frustrations and angst , keeping it all pent up inside . It's quite daring for writer-director Michael Wang to dive right into his feature film debut with a talkie piece . Then again , with the market conditions over here , you don't really expect one to try and make anything other than compelling drama or comedy to stamp your mark in the industry . While the attempt is bold and courageous , unfortunately the story isn't compelling enough to carry the whole movie through , instead relying a lot on veteran actors Adrian Pang and Alaric Tay to deliver their roles as two of the four protagonists in the story , both of whom seem to be the strong and mostly silent type , who hold their own in banter only when in the mood . The female leads turn out to be fresh faces on film , with Danielle O'Malley and Andrea Fonseka being the ladies who meet both men over the course of one night , discovering for themselves ( and unravelling for an audience ) that local men can be quite . . . troubled . Well in fact every single one of them has a load of emotional baggage that they hope to work through , and unknowingly through the conversations with one another , some demons get exorcised , and new courage found to take the bull by the horns , or to stop and smell the roses . Told over one night of the eve of Christmas eve ( that's the 23rd of December for the slow ones out there ) , we follow a quartet through the next 12 hours where they meet by chance and spark off some chit-chat over late night supper of , you guessed it , the titular delicacy , in Newton and Geylang . However , for a conversational piece , there were a number of moments of silence , where characters sit and ponder , given the immense weight of their troubles , but for the most part , they all seem somewhat distant and hard to connect with . It's difficult to sympathize or empathize with these characters ( perfect spoken English language doesn't help of course , except for the movie to travel overseas ) , and hence this alienates the audience , so much so that , to quote a character , do you mind talking so that I don't doze off again ? ( Not that I did of course ) I felt the actors did their best , and delivered where it mattered for their roles , but were somewhat let down by the script . There were flashes of brilliance in some of the conversational pieces , but unfortunately it was generally dull , serving at times as a mouthpiece for the director on his observations of local life , that you're likely finding yourself questioning if it's really the case . But I thought the real question came more than midway through the movie , where you're challenged point blank , as were the characters , on what you actually want in life . It's not something easy to answer , and the movie doesn't try to offer you any solutions , but what it does is to spark off some soul-searching to the million dollar question , which some spend a lifetime to discover . And what about the much talked about gripe on Andrea Fonseka's character Ruth ? Perhaps the most unreal character crafted here , a woman who decides to sell her body to make enough to see through her dream of becoming Singapore's first Blues singer . She's chatty with her clients , and is full of spunk , and speaks proper English as to boot . Naturally there are quarters who find this quite a fantasy figure to begin with ( and at that price ? ! ) but Andrea did her best in fleshing out this character , flying expletives , ( ok just one ) , and cheekiness in the same package . So did O'Malley too with her performance as Kate , the free-spirited girl who left California and is in transit in Singapore en route to New Zealand to set up her cafe . For someone who's escaping her life to start another , I thought she was the pluckiest , in her ability to inspire those ( men ) she comes into contact with , despite having zero material wealth and nary a clue on what to do next . Make no mistake this is clearly a film that would appeal to a very niche audience , but for those who are willing to give locally flavoured movies a go , The Carrot Cake Conversations offers something that's quite different from the usual set menus and local diet of comedy and horror . It might not have the most interesting conversations in a film , but it sure does have one of the better ensemble performances around .
A Nutshell Review : Eijanaika	The opening film of this year's Japanese Film Festival , Shohei Imamura's Eijanaika was a mixed bag , but the opening is one to behold . Very noisy and extremely boisterous and colourful , there's a carnival like atmosphere in visiting the street markets , with its strange and curious looking circus like performers ( see a snake being eaten alive , I kid you not ) , and others like a peep show for dirty old men . Like the noisy nature of the street market , what I found distracting with Eijanaika is its lack of focus . Set during the time just before the Meiji Restoration , with the grip of Shoguns going into decline , and with foreign powers already set foot on the land of the rising sun , it has many facets on the corrupt ways and the power play between warlords , scheming and plotting against each other to gain a foothold of fame and fortune . But anchoring the movie is the theme of love between the characters Genji ( Shigeru Izumiya ) and Ine ( Kaori Momoi ) , though it's a strange love , which only gets weirder once it addresses its issue on jealousy , and embarks on a journey of manipulation , and sacrifice . Genji has spent 6 years in America , and upon arrival in Japan , finds himself like a fish out of water . He looks up his abandoned wife Genji , who is now a top performing showgirl in one of those peep shows , being sold against her wishes to a master , and has to pay off her debt . But this master-performer relationship might be more than meets the eye as Genji finds out , given her reluctance to leave with him and follow a dream of carving out a new life in America . Somehow you'll loathe Ine's character , that slowly and surely you discover that she's quite a loose woman , using her charms and body to exact her wishes . But you doubt her true love for Genji no longer when you witness the amount of crap she has to go through for her man , despite his being unappreciative of the fact initially ( though it's hard of course ) . Living a new life and going out of her comfort zone might be too much for the unskilled Ine , and perchance that's why the spurning of Genji's dream to live abroad , going back to where he came from and had experienced . Like I mentioned , the narrative felt a bit too scattered with many characters and subplots , involving diabolical scheming no less , to give it a easier flow to follow . But appreciated was the fact that Imamura had instilled within the film some physical comedy involving a band of robbers , who after experiencing the success of their first hit , couldn't conceal their addiction for more . The finale reminded me of Paprika , with plenty of song , dance , color and sheer shenanigans , involving mooning and peeing ( this you just gotta see ) , but I thought it lost the plot with its firing on all cylinders on all parts of the target , rather than zooming in on critical areas and grouping the shots .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Tokyo Eyes	Somehow I had thoughts about Leon The Professional when I watched this film . Just the bit parts about how a girl chances upon the professional killer and struck a friendship with him . Here , a girl chances upon a press-hyped hit-man , and begins a romantic relationship . There's something peculiar about the modus operandus of the hit-man , K ( Shinji Takeda ) , in this movie . He'll don a pair of Ultraman inspired spectacles to blur his own vision deliberately , before whipping out his specially crafted pistol ( ok , no naughty thoughts here ) , and dispatches his prey . He doesn't make money for performing his hits , but rather rewards his own ego by shooting at anyone who irritates him at that point . Which makes him rather hard for the cops to predict where and who he'll strike next , and this frustrates the authorities . It doesn't help that the press builds up the hype of this crazy , masked " four-eyed " vigilante , and despite having a photo-kit of his face plastered on the front page , this anti-hero eludes the cops and remains an enigma . Cue cute Japanese schoolgirl with huge expressive eyes ( drool ) Hinano ( Hinano Yoshikawa ) , whose brother happened to be a cop taking on the case . On one hand , she's attracted to him , though she does not condone his violent acts , and on the other hand , wonders if she should follow her civic duty and report him to the police , or her brother . Bad boys almost always get the cute chicks I'd say . The movie has the look and feel of a classy indie , and being a French-Japanese production , it has this Euro-techno soundtrack infused , which I enjoy . Oh , and legendary Takeshi Kitano has a cameo as well , as what else , a Yakuza member . But don't hold your breaths as he only appears towards the end , and doesn't do much in his scene . The best scene in the entire movie will probably belong to the tense moment between K and Hinano as they square off and a piece of trivia gets unveiled . That one will make you go " ahhh . . . " , while other scenes which you will probably enjoy are those scenes where K goes on his spree . Other than that , it's most plain lovey-dovey talk between lovers . Code 3 DVD contains no extra features , except for the usual English subtitles , a photo still gallery and the interactive scene selection . There are also some trailers ( its own and other kinky films ) included , but nothing worth a closer look .
A Nutshell Review : Tenacious D : The Pick of Destiny	It might be an understatement to say that Jack Black is truly a jack of all trades . Of late his profile has been raised in the various high profile movies he's starring in , ranging from his own comedies like Nacho Libre , which I thought suffered from its own over-hype unfortunately , to blockbusters like King Kong for him to flex some dramatic muscles . I still remember the smaller supporting roles he played in movies like High Fidelity , and now he's probably in the bigger league , having the ability to open a movie with just his name on the marquee . Tenacious D however , is not a one-man show . It's actually a Jack Black-Kyle Gass vehicle in which they play two absurd rockers conveniently called JB and KG . They're dreaming of the day of making it big in the rock scene , with cash and chicks in their sex , drugs , rock and roll lifestyle . But until then , they have to content with paying the bills , and performing in open mic sessions of smaller joints . And of course , not having sufficient talent to come up with a hit , works against them , though they manage to snag one die hard fan along the way . Making its jump from TV ( was an HBO series ) , Tenacious D doesn't need you to learn up its history in order to enjoy it , as it begins with a fair bit of background story of how these two friends , with a passion for rock , meet and develop their friendship and partnership in showbiz . In his movie , they're on a quest to seek the legendary Pick of Destiny , which almost every who's who in the annals of rock history is observed to be using , rumoured to be a part of Satan ( ok , all you folks who associate loud music with the devil will probably rejoice at his point ) . And to humour these folks , JB and KG are your expected foul mouthed characters who pepper their lyrics with bawdy sex lines and vulgarities , which , in my opinion , totally rocks , spoofing the genre of music to a T . To truly enjoy the movie , you'd have to pay close attention to the lyrics and the dialogues between the characters , though some might add that it's a bit of an overkill having almost every line punctuated with Fs or Cs . Laughs are also milked from physical action , with inane bits like the Power Hugs and the Power Slide , which is touted as THE arsenal in any bona fide rock star . The other highlight of Tenacious D are the hilarious cameo appearances from folks like Tim Robbins , John C Reilly , Ben Stiller ( woohoo ! ) and even Meat Loaf , for some rock cred . Their characters , some unrecognizable until you do a second take , add plenty of colour to this wacky fantastical film . But Tenacious D blew hot and cold , and there will be points in time where you will just cringe at the delivery , or simply be unimpressed by the predictable ho-hum plot . It's almost as if Bill and Ted had put on loads of weight , and have recycled their excellent adventures into something with a rock element , and replacing Death with Satan himself . Satan here is done in awesome crimson red , much like Hellboy , horns and all , but with plenty more devilish attitude to boot . And yes , Jack Black can sing , really . A genuine performer if you ask me . If you're someone with a holier than thou attitude , steer real clear from this movie . It's so offensive that those who cannot stand the slightest murmur of insanely vulgar dialogue or set action sequence , will probably suffer from a bad fit . Stay tuned until after the end credits for a scene between JB and KG , where they try to conjure yet another masterpiece in front of their tape recorder .
A Nutshell Review : Men in White	Then again , it's a comedy , and the whole intention of Tong was to try and emulate the classical 80s comedies from Hong Kong , especially those Stephen Chow " mo lei tau " ( nonsensical ) movies , which Tong confessed this evening to being probably his # 1 fan in Singapore . Unfortunately those movies are in a class of its own , and the actors in MiW are certainly not in the same league too . But you can't fault Tong for trying , as MiW was more like a shotgun firing its rounds - some pellets hit the mark , while some others totally miss the target . Technically , Tong has shown that he understood the elements of suspense - the prologue showed that he is more than capable to helm another horror movie though he overdid this bit to achieve some comedic effect , a subtle prod on those horror movies with extremely closeups of facial expressions , especially that of Asian horror favourite - the widening eyeball . Alas , in treading onto comedy in almost Jack Neo fashion , MiW too felt like little skits pieced together to make a feature length film . And Neo's style of meshing songs into the narrative , became no less than 3 musical pieces popping up as music videos , complete with sing along lyrics , karaoke style . But I like these songs - they are fun , at times nonsensical , and are in dialect with no English subtitles , which to some , might have been lost in translation ( ahem I'm multi-lingual , so no problem lah ) . The music comes courtesy of Joe Ng ( Mee Pok Man ) , and the sound effects and design is probably one of the best in a local movie , especially since it was relied on heavily to deliver those cartoonish effects with aplomb , and you definitely must keep your ears peeled to appreciate this . One such scene involves Benjamin Heng , who has appeared in Kelvin Tong movies , and whose character here , if I were to romanticize it further , could have seemed like a ( logical though more fantastical since it's in the spiritual realm ) continuation of the one in Eating Air , as they share similar mannerisms , or could actually seem more of a spoof of his earlier Ah-Beng gangster character . Heng has a supporting role here though . The other main characters are Shaun Chen as Ah Boon , an ex-national reserve badminton player , Alice Lim as Madam Wong , an elderly lady , Ling Lee as Wan Yi , a lady who choked to death , and the Hip Hop duo of err Hip ( Xavier Teo ) and Hop ( Ben Yeung ) , whom I swear are more irritating as time goes by , until they break into song and dance in those music videos . They are all ghostly pals living in an unused HDB apartment unit , and whine for the most parts about how difficult life is for a ghost in Singapore . Not to forget , a bit part for Sunny the cameraman , another ghostly pal who's filming the chronicles of these friends . No prizes for acting skills over here , as Shaun Chen does look a little wooden , Xavier and Ben like I mentioned , and chewing up too much screen with their over the top performances , and Ling Lee , well I'm not sure why , but certain angles did make her look rather unappealing . Maybe they are playing to their one-dimensional characters , but the character which stole the show , hands down , is the gambler-contractor . Now he IS the star of MiW with his perfect delivery of some of the best lines and situations in the movie . David Aw had a bit role in the movie as an instigator of change , and he got that role as a result of a MiW Talent Search Contest , which I thought didn't require much talent actually , given the screen time . The narrative played out chapter-like , each self contained as an answer to commonly asked ghostly questions , which is why it resembled skits , though it does have a romantic thread that slowly runs and gets developed in the 2nd half of the movie . In true local movie fashion , it used multiple languages again to highlight our multi-lingual society , though some might find fault with its politically incorrect racist jokes and stereotyping ( OK so I am now feeling guilty at laughing out loud at these ) . Some of the other jokes might seem a bit too localized for them to be effective to a more international audience , but I guess the sight gags ( at times quite juvenile ) will always be able to transcend language barriers . An irk I had though , there were noticeable typos in the English subtitles . Probably next time I can proofread for anyone out there ! With a title like that ( the original Chinese title of " Ghost ah ! Ghost ah ! " ) , this film doesn't take itself seriously , and neither should you . Just kick back and relax , enjoy some of the pluses this movie has to offer , wince at the minuses , and remember , it's " mo lei tau " no-brainer entertainment , so don't fret too much over it .
A Nutshell Review : 9 Souls	This 2002 Japanese film is the third feature film showcased in the inaugural Singapore Fantastic Film Festival ( The first two being Kontroll and Immortel , which I should be able to watch by the end of the fest ) . 9 Souls is at times a complex movie , and at times one which has a simple tale to tell . It blurs and crosses the line so often , it makes it difficult to try and classify its genre - part gore , part comedy , part social commentary . The title refers to 9 prisoners , who are introduced in more detail during their escape from prison ( in a very creative introduction by the way ) , ranging from murderers to a porn king , from a juvenile delinquent to a vertically challenged escape artist . It turns into part comedy once they escape , and have to find the means and substinence to help keep themselves alive in a strange new world . Prior to their escape , their world is their prison cell , rudely interrupted by a tenth crazed prisoner , a counterfeit king who leaks out the secret to the whereabouts of his stash . With this bit of information , they embark on a quest to recover this lost promise of treasure before going their separate ways . Which forms the second half of the movie . Throughout the first half , we are exposed to the dreams and hopes of these escape convicts . Being locked up for some time , they each have a secret desire to either reunite with their loved one , or have plans to live a better life . At some point , you will ponder if it was wise of them to each seek their dream , knowing its dire consequences , or would rather choose to stick together in their new found family . Thoughts on second chances in life also crosses your mind , if these serious crime offenders deserve another break in life , or are forever condemned in the eyes of society for their one moment of folly which has kept them locked up . The pacing of the film is at times choppy , and you'd have scenes that come out of the blue ( like cross-dressing as a disguise ) . I heard quite a number of people around me give the " hmm . . . where did that come from " comment . The soundtrack is kept simple , to a constantly played guitar tune , which in scenes of peace are kept soft , and in scenes of angst , being played to a crescendo . I find this effective in conveying emotions in the film , without the need of a bloated soundtrack . Rated R21 here for its subject content and scenes of gore which is not really shown on screen , this film is recommended for those who seek a different film offering , which is what this film fest is striving to achieve .
A Nutshell Review : Stomp the Yard	I wasn't the least surprised with the full house turnout at the preview of Stomp the Yard . Having held the number one spot at the American box office earlier this year for 2 weeks , and with dance competition programmes having ample screen time on local television , it's probably a no brainer for this movie to open here this week , in time for the school holidays , targeting its teenage audience who will more than likely turn up in droves to catch the latest dance movie offering . As with the previous dance movies Step Up and Take the Lead , our lead dancer comes with plenty of emotional baggage , and a criminal record to boot . In essence , it's like an amalgamation of teen movies Step Up ( for the dance genre ) and a huge leaf out taken from the structure of Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift - just replace the race cars with provocative street dance moves , and you have Stomp the Yard . If you're not convinced , DJ ( Columbus Short ) got his life messed up after his brother's death , and him being charged with assault . He moves away from home to stay with relatives , and enrols himself in a local college . There , he exposes himself to the stomp dance which the frat boys practice , hold competitions and get bragging rights to by being the champion . He falls in love with April ( Meagan Good ) , the main squeeze of a prominent member of the opposite camp , bringing about plenty of issues as they square off on the dance floor . Clocking close to 2 hours , you'll probably find it amusing as you sit through deja vu moments identified from the movies mentioned , and you'll be able to stay one step ahead of formula every step of the way . There are a number of characters in the story , but while most of them are fringe players , it was toward the end where they start to have personal histories intertwined does it start to get a little ridiculous , too conveniently established to move the story forward . The romance portion between DJ and April also seem unconvincing , and the actors emote little chemistry with each other . Again , these romantic tangles have been told time and again , and you're more than likely to roll your eyes at the romantic moments which bog down the pace . Rather , you'll be rooting for DJ to do his thing , to show off some of those moves he has - the fluidity and free styled motions as compared to and in stark contrast with the strict rigidity of the stompers ' routine . But who says genres can't be meshed together , as Step Up proved to great success . Being a dance movie , expectations of the dance routine will be high , after all , this is what makes the movie , given the usual cardboard characters that populate the story . It has a couple of impressive ghetto street moves , and the stomp movements that will leave you glued to the steps on screen . However , the finale was a bit of a letdown , given no big face off , but rather a series of repetitive small ones which we've seen earlier in the movie , and a " killer move " which comes anticipated a mile away , bringing to mind The Karate Kid's cheesy one trick pony technique . I've become a fan of the dance genre because of the earlier movies , but this one seemed to have taken my enthusiasm two steps backwards . Nonetheless it still makes an adequately entertaining movie for the most part , and the dances pretty standard free-styling affair , which should appeal to its intended audience .
A Nutshell Review : Basic Instinct 2	I was still under-aged when the original Basic Instinct made its debut in the local theater's under the relatively new R rating system , but suffice to say many already know of the kinky scenes , especially the infamous crossing and uncrossing of legs sans panties which sealed Sharon Stone's status as a Hollywood femme fatale . It's been 14 years since , and the sequel is just released here . Which makes one wonder why , given the question would anyone still be interested to see an aging body doing her thing again ? It's no wonder that the preview crowd was mainly elderly uncles and aunties , who apparently had a good time dissecting whatever plot there is to this movie , and of the occupational hazards of being a mental doctor if your mental strength is found wanting . Not that it's not entertaining ( I think my week of work work and more work made me easy to please ) , but elements which were associated with the original psycho sex thriller , save for Sharon Stone's returning novelist cum serial killer Catherine Tramell , are gapingly pissing . Gone is the icepick , and the graphic violence and killing . In place is a series of murder scenes which happen almost after the deed . The sex scenes here are so reduced , they're negligible , if compared to the original . And perhaps to balance the lack of sex , this movie migrates to a more mind-numbing psycho-babble flick , since the mind is the greatest sex organ , as Stone's character Tramell , mind-tangos London psychiatrist Dr . Michael Glass ( David Morrissey ) , and detective Roy Washburn ( David Thewlis ) , investigating her for an apparent murder-suicide of famed footballer Kevin Franks , in a cameo played by Stan Collymore , yes , THAT Stan Collymore . All he had to do in his movie debut was to act stone ( pun intended ) and finger Tramell . How hard is that ? In dialogues filled with double entrées and sexual innuendos , Tramell basically waltzes through England in her see throughs , having fun running rings around the two male leads , in a carefully crafted game of cat and mouse with Glass . In her psychosis sessions with Glass on her " risk addiction " , there was mention of Nick Curran ( played by Michael Douglas in the first movie ) , but that was just about the link to the original . Basically as the movie wore on , bodies associated with Glass turned out murdered , and naturally Tramell , Glass and even the detective Washburn all become plausible suspects . Being the master manipulator , the audience might even be seduced by her ideas on the plausibility of certain events , and this swung the narrative into varying directions if you'd allow it . If you do , you'll probably give the possibilities the nod , despite some plot holes and an ending tense sense bordering close to absurdity . What's the motivation for the sequel ? One wonders if it's just to revitalize Stone's flagging career by putting her back in one of her more iconic villain roles in cinematic history . Then again , she should have gone back to basics and not stain the original with a relatively lacklustre sequel .
A Nutshell Review : City of Ember	This film is strictly for kids . Not pimply teenagers though , but children whose parents will take comfort in knowing that this film is thoroughly family friendly fare , with nary a swear word , tame action sequences , no embarrassing physical romance they got to cook up an explanation for , and an inspiring theme that has to do with hope and working hard to achieve one's goals . Based on the book by Jeanne Duprau , one can find plenty of parallels with the setting of the story , where a group of inhabitants get to live in an artificial colony because of the sins of the fathers ( well , the human predecessors who find that their rape and plunder of the Earth have finally taken its toil ) , and find themselves living underground in an aptly dark world , lit by plenty of light bulbs powered by an aging generator . Stories like these are staple in Japanese manga / anime , and the recent one that I've watched was Freedom , but that involved the moon . Or think The Matrix even , but for kids and minus the kung-fu inspired fight scenes . So the story goes that Lina Mayfleet ( Saoirse Ronan , the kid from Atonement ) has in her family's possession , an important piece of instruction leading to the salvation and exit of everyone from the city of Ember , given that it's been hundreds of years already and the infrastructure is crumbling . But that is if she knows that she has that information in the first place , and what exactly to do with it . So it's up to her and best friend Doon Harrow ( Hary Treadaway ) to figure things out , unravel the conspiracy involving their mayor Cole ( Bill Murray , who's seriously in some need to snap out of sleepwalking in this role ) , and of course , make their way toward the clear blue skies of the surface . But in the meantime , you can't help but to feel a little short-changed with how the story develops , or there lackof . Here's a world that's artificially built both in the story , and as well as for the film , and little time is devoted to delving into a more detailed exploration of this strange new world where people live in an environment devoid of the sun . They grow their food in greenhouses , and have in their societal system , a structure of deciding what their career path for life will be from a young age . Modern technology like the cellphone is gone , and replacing it is the good old human messenger system relying on fleet of foot , and accuracy of transmission , all for 20 coins per message . All you get however are just very wafer thin highlights of this strange world , complete with strange creatures or their body parts , that I suspect if not for a relatively modest budget we'll see more of . At times too you do feel that scenes don't really gel and flow seamlessly from point to point , most likely getting trimmed to achieve a relatively palatable run time of just over 90 minutes . And you can tell from the modest budget too that the special effects did suffer a little in having them presented in raw terms in a major sequence involving a boat gushing down a mighty cavern river . While there's nothing much to shout about on the performances of the two leads , the film tried to up its star factor having minute supporting roles for Tim Robbins , as well as Martin Landau , an aged pipeworks technician , who will undoubtedly get the most laughs out of his penchant to strictly stick to his job , and nothing more or less . I suppose everyone can identify with this aspect in their own working life from time to time , except perhaps for the fact that his Sul takes pride in thoroughly doing a fine job if it's something under his scope . City of Ember is a very straight forward film with few bells and whistles to complicate matters . Coming from Walden Media , it's an extremely safe film to bring the whole family to , and kids will undoubtedly get a kick out of this action-adventure aimed squarely at them in the name of wholesome entertainment , and it succeeds on this aspect .
A Nutshell Review : King Kong Vs . Godzilla ( 1962 )	One's an American monster created in the 1930s . The other , a Japanese counterpart created in the 1950s . One an over-sized ape which scaled the Empire State Building in New York , the other an over-sized lizard which trampled the streets of Tokyo . What do you get when you put the two together ? An animal slugfest which forgets about human characterization . I mean , who would care ? This is the first movie which combined two well known monster icons , and unleashed them against each other in Japan . And the first time that both creatures appear in colour too . While the plot is secondary , it takes you almost an hour before the two finally meet , and treated to a short fight with Kong walking away scratching his head . Not a good start to a fight , but naturally , Godzilla would win given his fire-breath . Initially that is , until Kong gets upped in strength by electricity . Fans of both Kong and Godzilla will naturally be pleased with director Ishiro Honda for keeping in some iconic moments which defined both characters . For Kong , a television crew sets out to Faroe Island ( a departure for Skull Island ) in search of a mysterious beast whom the local island inhabitants worship . They ship him to Japan , until they're ordered by the government to not bring Kong to their shores . At the same time , Godzilla gets thawed from some iceberg , and instinctively makes its way to Japan , first stop being Hokkaido , before journeying southwards to Tokyo . Kong gets a nod with its short stint scaling a building , while kidnapping a Japanese lady along the way . However , he seemed short of ideas in tackling Godzilla , only be throwing huge boulders at the lizard . I'd give Godzilla one-up in its creativity in trying to take Kong down . It's kinda tacky watching this film now , with both monsters given the CG treatment ( Godzilla by Hollywood , and the upcoming King Kong by Peter Jackson ) . Men in rubber suits are obvious , and the closeups are kinda funny , especially Kong's rubber face . But like most Japanese monster movies , the miniatures are a sight to marvel at . Must have been a chore building them , and having them torn down with such ease by Kong and Godzilla must have been painful . So who wins in the end ? It depends on which version you're watching . The version I'd watched from a DVD from the library @ esplanade , Kong defeats Godzilla offscreen , and swam for home . In my opinion , Godzilla should've roasted Kong , but that's another story for another day .
A Nutshell Review : Spider Lilies	A spider lily is a flower that is said to line along the pathway to Hell . It contains poison which will cause one to lose our memory . Memories are central to the story , as the characters involved are questioned as to whether their memories are faulty , and if one can choose to repress them in the attempt to forget , be they happier times , or times of woe . Jade ( Rainie Yang ) is an Internet web-cam girl , living with her grandma , and making a living out of smut , enticing men to trade money for moments of online peek-a-boo pleasure . She has a love since 9 years of age , and it is the relationship with Takeko ( Isabella Leong ) , a tattooist , that forms the fulcrum of the story . Takeko herself bears a strong spider lily tattoo on her left arm , and it is something that Jade wants for herself , trying to rekindle and capture memories of her lost love , now found again . There had been a recent fad about tattoos , nevermind the negative connotations once associated with this permanent body art . Perhaps this movie will change opinions about tattoos , as it opens your mind to specifics as to the reason behind each design , and the rationale that each person probably had when making their choices on a particular design . And as a plot device , it was a hand in glove , a tattoo's powerful symbolism of hiding real intentions or emotions behind , or to feed off its perceived energy and possessing the design's qualities . Spider Lilies has fine editing which serves the movie extremely well in engaging the audience with the characters ' past . In fact , the rich back stories created for the characters make the story very compelling to watch . If there is a chink in the armour , then it's the characterization of Takeko's brother Ching ( Shen Jian-hung ) , who is a bit slow in mental intelligence , and spends a lot of screen time pouting for his sister's attention , which totally messes up her social life , out of love and obligation to provide the only family care for him . The fear and pain of being forgotten in a modern society might resonate with many , and anyone who has spent enough time on the internet , will know that its anonymity can often lead to misunderstandings . That subplot perhaps added a touch of lightness coupled with a tinge of sadness and irony . As most youths today turn to the net as an outlet for expression , most will be able to identify with this portion of the story arc . I'm quite unsure if this movie will be able to make it to Singapore , given its more obvious subject material that the authorities will probably frown upon . But at its core , it's a tale of change and to have courage to live the life you want to lead , interwoven with a tale of love . If Saving Face can make it to our shores , I hope Spider Lilies will too .
A Nutshell Review : Barbie Digs Joe	A lot has been said about this short which was cited as starting Eric Khoo's foray into film-making . Winning numerous awards , this film's cast was made of the Barbie and Ken dolls , and various GI Joe models . At first you couldn't make out the premise of the story , save for GI Joe spotting Barbie , and goes on a quest to make her his girl , and kicking Ken's ass in the process . Naturally , the stop-motion technique was used to animate the dolls , and I thought the voice-overs for the characters were pretty hilarious , if not unconvincing , but nonetheless , fun ! But it actually tells a broader love story from the obvious Barbie-world one in plastic , that of their owners who discover each other while they were childhood friends , right up to the near breakdown in their relationship towards the end , rekindled by memories of how Barbie and GI Joe brought them together . If I may say so , it's an amateur effort , from tacky credits to dubbed character voices , but a very important film that has its distinct place in Eric Khoo's filmography . Probably something to take from here , is that music plays an important part in his movies , with this we got tunes from Beach Boys and New Order .
A Nutshell Review : Adam's Apples	The premise of this movie seemed simple enough , about Neo Nazi called Adam ( Ulrich Thomsen ) being sentenced to community service at a church . A priest , Ivan ( Mads Mikkelsen ) , informs Adam that in order to complete his hours of service , he must have a goal in mind . And that goal actually turned out unexpectedly , as a passing remark , to be as banal as baking an apple pie , with apples found in the apple tree grown on the church's premises . Written and directed by Danish filmmaker Anders Thomas Jensen , Adam's Apples is a black comedy about God and the mysterious ways in which He works . Sometimes He does things in an indirect manner , in order for you to explore and find out exactly what He wants you to do . Or He might intent to pose some challenges in order to shake you up , or have a sublime message in which you are to learn from . Adam didn't have it easy , as in his opinion , it is as if God was punishing him by making things extremely difficult . Weird stuff kept happening with nary a warning , like having crows infest the tree and eating away at the apples , or by having worms invade from within . All these clue Adam that perhaps he wasn't meant to finish serving his time as soon as possible , but rather has to find meaning in the extended period of time of him being at the church . The story actually got more interesting when the audience is introduced to the host of quirky characters who seek refuge at the grounds , such as Khalid ( Ali Kazim ) the Pakistani with a thing for robbing petrol kiosks , and Gunnar ( Nicolas Bro ) , the fat kleptomaniac . And the plot actually allowed more to ponder upon , with the Bible playing a key plot device with its reference to the Book of Job - is there a modern biblical reference to Ivan , or is he living one himself ? But no worries about this portion of the plot getting too stifling for comfort . While it actually had a really dead serious mood throughout , there is plenty of comedy delivered , which came at times , fast and furious , but yet still maintained that deadpan feel , as if these comedic situations happened as " a matter of fact " - ly . Certain ( violent ) scenes stood out and made you think about how those shots were actually achieved . Watching the movie actually made me wonder about the existence of an omnipotent being , and actually had this uncanny feel good factor about it at the end . If you're up for some unconventional fare , then this nominee for this year's Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film might just be your cup of tea .
A Nutshell Review : Silent Hill	Never cheese a mother off by taking away or threatening her child . We've seen plenty of tough mamas in contemporary movies , and Jodie Foster comes to mind in having personified the tough-as-nails mum in Panic Room and Flight Plan . NO , she doesn't have a part to play in Silent Hill , but the premise , about a mother on a journey to recover her daughter from the clutches of harm , couldn't be more familiar . And before you dismiss this movie as just another run off the mill video game adaptation , this movie is surprisingly good , in setting up its atmospheric moments . We've had plenty of misses with this genre , and only a few hits . Staying faithful to the setting of the source using CGI enhanced sets and SFX , it took its time to introduce the mystery surrounding Silent Hill , teasing you with long sequences which seem to journey nowhere . Which by then , some of you would have already given up , as you ache to see more of the beasts which go bump in the darkness , only to have an all too quick daylight interrupt the flow of carnage , and having to endure through long moments of silence and basically beating around the bushes . Then again , it's precisely this hide-and-seek that the movie stays an arm's length away from the usual expectation of action , action and more mindless action . Silent Hill is a very adult adaptation , staying true to the spirit of gaming , with its endless round after round of puzzles and encounters before everything starts to make some sense . Those expecting a splatterfest will be disappointed , as there aren't many . While the monsters and creatures are a sight to behold ( they're disgustingly beautiful ) , most times they get introduced and addressed too easily . Just as you get into the swing of things with a particular beast , it gets hauled away from view , whatever the reason . I dig the spasm-induced dancing faceless nurses , but they're given too little screen time . It's more mystery than downright horror , basing its theme on superstition and misguided faith on different planes . There're little " boo " moments , as everything builds up gradually , adding to the suspense . Eventually , you'll get to the closure , with the big mystery and back story unveiled , adding some gravitas to the movie , and could serve as a springboard to any sequels if planned . Radha Mitchell plays Rose Da Silva , the mom who partners cop Cybil Bennett ( Laurie Holden ) who assists her in the paranormal realm of Silent Hill to track down Sharon ( Jodelle Ferland ) , yet another creepy kid ( the other kid's the Anti-Christ in the remake of Omen . These days creepy kids are in ! ) who holds the key to the entire whodunnit . Sean Bean was wasted as Rose's husband , in a role that is created only because everyone else substantial in the movie is female . His role is actually to accentuate that Silent Hill exists on different realms , with him being in the " real world " while the others are trapped in another plane of existence . And of course in movies like these , the acting's nothing really to shout about , since expressions are limited to looking scared and looking bewildered . It'll take a while before you can scratch past to get to the storyline , as your eyes and attention will be peeling away the layers of beautifully crafted production sets and awesome graphics , and your ears appreciating the music adapted from the games . And with a satisfactory story as justification , this could perhaps see a new beginning to games wanting to make it to the silver screen , if done correctly .
A Nutshell Review : High Tension	This film has finally made its way to our shores , uncut . For a slasher flick , it's bloody good , pun intended . If you've read me enough , you know that I'm a sucker for revenge films and zombie flicks . The occasional slasher flick appeals to me too , and this one doesn't disappoint , in the delivery of the material that is . Two friends Marie ( a very buff Cécile De France ) and Alex ( Maïwenn Le Besco ) spend the weekend in the latter's farm home , to keep away from distractions to study for their exams . We are briefly introduced to the family members of Alex - the parents , the toddler brother and the family St Bernard , before the horror starts to set in the very same night . As with slasher flicks , there would always be the lumbering and unstoppable psycho killer . In this film , it's a huge unkempt man in baseball cap and dirty overalls , armed with only a switchblade , bulldozing his way into the family home and slaughtering everyone in sight . We share in Marie's fear and attempts to conceal herself , which makes you wonder , in desperate moments like these life and death situations , what will you really do ? The confusion and fear makes it all easy for Marie to think selfishly , but I suppose it's only human nature , and what more can you do , really ? In playing cat-and-mouse with the killer , we see the decapitations of various forms , stabs , creative use of improvised weapons , all soaked in tons of blood . If the film was edited , then a lot would have been lost , especially the impact of such senseless violence on defenseless persons . If one should compare with the recent release Sympathy For Lady Vengeance , the latter would be a leisurely stroll in the park in the violence and gore department . Perhaps it's closest cousin might be The Devil's Rejects . Cécile De France shines in her role , as many in the audience could feel her fear , desperation , and new found courage . The film easily relied on her to pull the movie through its highly disturbing material . The filmmakers could have left this as it was - brutal , senseless killings ( hey , slasher flick , remember ? ) , but in trying to have a one-up in making this a more psychological film with the slight twist at the end , somehow exposed a lot of gaping loopholes in the narrative storyline in retrospect . So be forewarned , this film is not for the squeamish and faint at heart . It's bloody brutal , the way slasher films are made out to be , and make no apologies for .
A Nutshell Review : Call Me If You Need Me	It's an open secret that James Lee gets a lot of love from the Singapore International Film Festival , having almost all , if not all I believe , of his works screened at past editions . Last year we had a rare glimpse of a commercial horror project , Hysteria , and this year Lee goes back to his festival art house roots with Call Me If You Can , a gangster based film tackling the usual themes of Brotherhood and Loyalty that are staple of Hong Kong crime dramas , but without much blazing shootout action . It's an atmospheric family piece if you will , where blood runs thicker than water in episodes that we'll see unfold in Or Kia ( played by Singapore's indie hero Sunny Pang ) leaving his village for the big city of Kuala Lumpur , where he looks up his cousin Ah Soon ( played by Malaysian musician Pete Teo ) who runs a local racket of profit sharing from debt collecting from the bigger fish . In fact , what seemed like a family gathering of relatives soon pave way toward something more sinister , where underlings form part of the family table , and cocktail drugs get passed around as recreational dessert . Watching the first act , I can't help but to think of Tarantino's Vincent Vega and Jules Winnfield talking about Royale with Cheese and foot massages whilst on their way to a hit job . Here , Lee has his characters talking like your everyday Joe with everyday worries , hopes and their hobbies , bitching about how comic book creators sell out by prolonging their material through the stuffing their stories with incredible characters . Or characters breaking out into talking about boxing , or even football betting odds . Curiously enough , Lee also put in a lot of hungry people in the film , probably as a metaphor that they're craving something in life , but are not going to get it as easy as a 2-minute instant noodle , or to buy it off the streets from hawkers . Between the 2 acts , I very much prefer the first half to the second , because the second departed from the warm and cozy environment that the cousins are used to , and propel them forward given that their racket together had yielded results , and results meant promotions . Since it's family , Ah Soon hands over his operations to Or Kia , and we see a development of their characters for the worst , and not having both on screen together meant some of the fun dissipating , especially when Ah Soon starts to mope , brood and become exasperated because of his missing wife . And like all gangster movies , personal and business doesn't mix , and a handful of characters had made the business component very clear . It's nice to see how James Lee tackles the issues of corruption in the city indirectly . One scene I thought which was brilliant , was how he confirms a cafe meeting with a high-ranking police officer and the hoodlums . The bribery taking place is not so subtle , yet enough to bring out awareness that the man hiding behind the shades was an officer of the law , through an implied remark of a game found in an iPhone . Folks arrested are also easily let off the hook through the usage of an underaged fall guy , with the corrupt contacts fully condoning such practice . I guess there would be some reference of such practices that Lee would probably be aware of , to have incorporated this in the film . Those looking for a violent , action-packed movie need be reminded that this is a James Lee movie . Guns are brandied around , but rarely used . Instead , the characters rely heavily on a lot of swearing in a myriad of languages , and plenty of cigarette smoke to get their points across . Violence happens off screen , so you don't get to see much . But that's not what you should be looking out for in the movie . The key component that worked is the excellent chemistry that Sunny Pang and Pete Teo share in the movie , as cousins who are more like brothers , and lighting up the screen each time they share the same frame . There is word that James will be working with Sunny again , this time in a commercial action film , and I secretly wish that Pang and Teo could be reunited again for the big screen .
A Nutshell Review : Eagle Eye	From one cellphone-centric movie in Connected another with Eagle Eye , this movie dwells on the fears of man about the abuse of technology , given how pervasive a simple device like the mobile phone , could be a haven for anyone tapped into the network to triangulate your whereabouts . Some other fears get presented , such as activating the microphone within without your knowledge , eavesdropping on your conversation whether or not you're on the phone . Big Brother heaven , but ordinary citizen's nightmare . Granted the proper use of technology , which in the first 10 minutes of the film , we got a glimpse at the possibilities which , if not already is , the future of such usage . Gone are the eyes in the skies , now replaced with eyes from outer space and connected to one another through intelligent networks ripe for the abusive picking . While the terrorism buzzword has been bandied around in a number of movies for some time already , I can't recall off the top of my head any cyber-terrorism movie worth your while , until perhaps now . It's a different approach to the subject actually , and to say anything more would be to let the cat out of the bag . But it does make one sit back and think about contingencies , backups , and just how much human intervention in the form of checks and balances that need to be in place to justify the existence and reliance on intelligent algorithms . In a way the movie doesn't break new ground , in that the chief villain here ( barring the arrogance of man ) is nothing not seen before , and the manner it was dispatched , well , a matter of cinematic convenience . Directed by D . J . Caruso ( who also helmed the Shia LaBeouf vehicle Disturbia ) , Eagle Eye follows the three narrative thread formula which has concurrent events developing at the same time at frantic pace , leaving you with not much room to breathe as you can presented with facts , figures and arguments , coupled with constant probing of just what exactly is going on . We follow Jerry Shaw ( Shia LaBeouf ) and Rachel Holloman ( Michelle Monaghan ) , two ordinary citizens who through the picking up of a random phonecall , they become slaves to do the bidding of the monotone voice at the other side of the line . At risk is Jerry's escape from the law , having being framed for being a terrorist , while Rachel has her son dangled in front of her as collateral . There's something not quite right with the two of them running around doing seemingly menial tasks , to the more dangerous stunts like robbing an armoured truck , which leads to the other two threads , involving Billy Bob Thorton's FBI Agent Thomas Morgan , and Rosario Dawson's Zoe Perez as an Air Force investigator being called up to the Pentagon where we slowly learn what could actually have gone wrong . Hollywood " It " boy LaBeouf continues his string of box office successes ( Eagle Eye opened at # 1 at the US box office ) and has made clueless , carefree teenagers his forte . Here , with the assistance of some overnight shadow around his chin , he brings on certain gravitas and maturity to what is essentially a Keanu-Reeves type character . Michelle Monaghan gets a boost in the action-thriller genre from her stint under Tom Cruise's Mission Impossible : III , and doesn't look a bit out of place here as a mother willing to go to extreme lengths to ensure the safety of her son . The supporting cast though were a little wasted . Rosario Dawson's role didn't require her to do anything other than to look sharp in uniform , while Billy Bob was just plain Billy Bob . Action sequences were a little hit and miss , going back to basics with yet another tussle in a tunnel with big bang explosions , to the more innovative literally blink-and-you-miss moment involving huge electric cables , or having a field day within baggage handling . Eagle Eye is a surprisingly taut action thriller that held your attention just right until about when it showed hand and revealed its source code , then it's treading of familiar territory thereafter . Held great potential in having you guess just what and how things are done the way they were , until you realize its bluff , and then it's just your usual through passage to the finale , with a cop out to boot too .
A Nutshell Review : Dead Man ( 1995 )	Johnny Depp didn't adopt that weird hairdo first as Willy Wonka in Charlie and The Chocolate Factory . He did that bob-hairdo as William Blake , an accountant in this movie . Directed by Jim Jarmusch , who did Coffee and Cigarettes , and Broken Flowers ( starring Bill Murray in a role written for him ) , this is a black-and-white western tale about one man's extraordinary journey starting from the town of Machine . The introduction is queer , with seemingly endless and repetitive shots of Blake on a train from Cleveland to Machine , interspersed by scenes of the train wheels chugging along . He arrives in a strange town and discovered that the job which was waiting for him , had been filled . Lost , he wanders about town and got a one night stand with a lady . Alas , his life goes downhill from that point on , when the lady's ex-boyfriend arrives and a shootout occurs . Pinned with the blame of a double murder , Blake escapes to the wild west , and got rescued by Nobody , a native Indian , who is equally surprised at how Blake survived having a bullet so close to his heart . And still lodged . Hence an uneasy friendship between the two men is forged as they hold off bounty hunters after Blake ( from a bounty of 200 to 2000 dollars ) , but Blake has to put up with Nobody's mumbo-jumbo and quoting of poetry . Indeed , the words of wisdom spewed is simply hilarious at times , as they just don't make sense . It's shot in black and white , and deliberately slow paced , so this might not appeal to everyone . However , the number of stars in this show will probably raise your interest level , like Crispin Glover , John Hurt , Robert Mitchum , Gabriel Byrne , Lance Henrikson , Michael Wincott , Iggy Pop , Billy Bob Thorton , Alfred Molina and Steve Buscemi . But what's beautiful about the film is the awesome soundtrack from the rocksy / folksy guitars riffs of Neil Young . Which without , the movie would just not work . It's pretty violent in some of the shootouts , but nothing is made too outrageous . Keep your ears peeled at the dialogues and conversations too . So if you're a fan of Depp , why not give this movie a watch ?
A Nutshell Review : Day Night Day Night	Mention films about suicide bombers , and movies like Syrianna and Paradise Now comes to mind . Films that try to explain the rationale behind the driving force of these persons dedicated to destruction and murder , and while those stories had the usual male bombers , Day Night Day Night took on a more interesting angle , and looked at the role of female suicide bombers - those that don't really fit the usual security profile , and are usually deemed as lower risk of being detected before they execute their plan . In her first fictional feature , director Julia Loktev takes a long hard look at the journey of a 19 year old girl played by Luisa Williams . Attractive , petite , you won't understand why she has to do what she wants to , and the story doesn't explain . This is almost in parallel to real life , where you read reports of the aftermath , and are presented with little clues to their background . Loktev weaved a tale from seeking out the terrorists , meeting them , going through their rites and procedures , before being accepted for the mission , complete with the making of the video , and the fit up of the device . Most times you don't get to see much , as the camera angles are extremely tight and full of close ups , to accentuate the waiting , and to allow you to focus on the girl , and her thoughts , and her apprehension , despair , and a host of other emotions . I thought Loktev too took quite a neutral stand in not stereotyping the bad hats , that indeed it can be anyone , people from abroad with different cultures , or the home grown and bred haters of society . And that is true because terror can come from anywhere . This is not an easy movie to sit through as it's deliberately slow and nothing much really happened . But as a movie that attempts to narrate the process from civilian to combatant , this fictionalized account will probably be as close as you can get .
A Nutshell Review : Slither	We've seen a slew of horrific gore movies hitting the screens lately , from Saw to Hostel , some hits , some misses , some remakes , brought to us by a new age group of horror directors like Darren Lynn Bousman , Eli Roth and Alexandre Aja . Slither , written and directed by James Gunn , continues the blood fad with them slimy creatures combined with zombies who walk the earth . Don't bother figuring out the whys and the hows , and forget about the plot , which has holes punched right through by the introductory meteorite . Just sit back and enjoy whatever thrills and spills this movie throws at you . It's great mindless fun as you see slimy red worms forcing their way into their prey's ( read : humans ) mouths , in order to take over control , kinda like Invasion of Body Snatchers . During this state , the humans will walk , talk , act like generic zombies , minus the strength , but the lust for human MEAT still remains . Oh , did I mention it was a bit phallic looking , the way the worms force their entry into the human mouth ? M18 it screams . As always , with horror movies like these , the chicks score in the looks department , and little else . Serenity / Firefly's Captain Mal lends some die-hard action chops as Bill , cop extraordinaire , probably picking up lessons from John McClane in staying alive despite unsurmountable odds . Again there are plenty of throwaway characters , as they serve only the sole purpose of increasing the bodycounts . The main villain in the movie is this meteorite carrying some space alien which is making its rounds cannibalizing planet inhabitants . So Earth is next on the radar , and it found its host in unsuspecting Grant ( Michael Rooker ) , whose young wife Starla ( Elizabeth Banks , Spiderman's Betty Brant ) is lusted after by Bill . Starla turns out to be one faithful spouse , and it is exactly those matrimonial vows that Grant takes a mickey of when things go horribly wrong . Characterization take a backseat here , as the target audience is only interested in who's gonna be the next victim of a spectacular death sequence . It took a while for the set up though , so be prepared to be a little bored by the first act . The special effects team did a tremendous job in bringing the gooey slithery slimeball worms to life , and empowering the zombies with green icky spit . Then again , dumb newbie zombies don't know how to fully harness their powers . There are many of the usual splice-and-dice scenes with innards pouring out , but somehow they still provided me with the usual kicks . Same goes for the close quarter combats , and those up close gunfire . All in all , it's quite enjoyable , from a warped point of view . It's part Aliens , part Living Dead , part Anaconda , part everything that moves on its belly . Stay tuned until after the ending credits for one forgettable sequence .
A Nutshell Review : Good Night , and Good Luck .	Finally someone had the balls to bring this movie in , after the Oscar hype and all . I was anticipating this movie to compare it with the rest of the Best Picture nominees , but had to refrain from watching it from ahem sources , or from DVD rentals . So what's my verdict ? It's a little over-hyped . Don't get me wrong . The production value was superb , even though it was shot entirely in black and white , and was modestly budgeted . Much has been said about David Strathairn being Edward J Murrow , and that's true , he provided a superbly charismatic performance , that if it wasn't Hoffman in contention for Capote , I'd reckon Strathairn would have clinched the Oscar . I've always enjoyed political / historical movies which adds its own spin to dramatize real-life events , and this one is no exception . However , I would recommend that you read up a bit on the background on the tussle between CBS ' Ed Murrow and Junior Senator Joseph McCarthy , so that you can appreciate this picture even more . It doesn't dwell on too much of the background , and jumps to the central story directly . So unless you're somewhat vaguely familiar , it would take a while to get up to speed . And you'll be distracted too by the wonderful shots in this George Clooney directed picture . Smoking has never looked as sexy as this , and each drag produces smoke that just lingers on screen . Beautiful , even though I'm not an advocate of tobacco . Its themes of freedom from fear , liberty , imaginary enemies , are adequately discussed , with ideas put forth single handedly by Murrow's many monologues from his talk show . You'll be captivated as Strathairn holds your attention each time he's up . However , what's lacking is the additional oomph in the return fire , as McCarthy gets relegated to playbacks from archive stock footage , so unless you're happy with monologues , you'll feel the downside in the presentation of this picture . The other sub-theme I enjoyed though is the workings of internal politics within the studio , and the relationship between its backers and supporters . Prior to being given the green light to engage in a thought-provoking and direct onward fire towards a senator gaining dangerous ground , we see the hurdles and the fears that the producers and everyone involved have to cross . Really makes you wonder at times , how objective can a certain news spin be . Big ideas , big cast , and lots of great jazz would have made this success a given , but its one-sided delivery might have hurt it from achieving its potential greatness .
A Nutshell Review : The Ferrryman	I have enjoyed limited movie offerings from New Zealand , with the likes of the romantic comedy Sione's Wedding and horror comedy Black Sheep , and for my horror double bill this weekend , I wouldn't have wanted to miss The Ferryman . In western folklore , the Ferryman is the one responsible for transporting the dead to the nether realms , where souls would be judged ( so you'd better start chalking up those brownie points ) . Ferrymen had been depicted in movies before , be they just a background character like in Woody Allen's Scoop , or becoming a point of contention in the Pirates of the Caribbean movies with crew of The Flying Dutchman . Think of it as the equivalent to the Chinese folklore characters of " Cow Head " and " Horse Face " , where they will visit the body at the point of deaths to escort the soul to the depths of Hell for judgement . 2 couples ( two of whom are Craig Hall and Amber Sainsbury whom we will get to see again in 30 Days of Night , in which Ben Fransham who plays The Ferryman will also appear ) signs up for an adventure sail from New Zealand to Fiji , where a luxurious spa awaits their tired bodies after their " homestay on the sea " stint . Before everyone , including the captain his wife and their pet dog , can get chummy with one another , their ship receives a distress signal , and the laws of the sea dictates they get themselves into unknown trouble by picking up a survivor from a non-working vessel . And like all hitchhiker styled movies , there's always something strange about the hitcher ( played by John Rhys-Davis ) you pick up , especially when the weather's all foggy and he starts to give everyone the creeps . The Ferryman turned out to be a rather interesting concept movie rather than outright horror with shock and awe moments . It doesn't scare , nor does it follow the recent trends in gore and with torture porn . What it's more akin to is a good old fashioned thriller with supernatural elements thrown in for good measure . Some might complain that nothing much really happens , with the usual hack and slash , but I'd argue that it had a very novel take on the theme of longevity , especially when it starts to play out in full . While it certainly isn't something new , the way it was executed ( pardon the pun ) mattered , and its ending will undoubtedly leave a wicked smile on your face , at what had transpired , and the loads of potential should you possess such capability . Not without loopholes though , but I thought it could be glossed over given its supernatural slant , unless you choose to harp on it , especially when it didn't get developed properly . In short , The Ferryman still qualifies for an entertaining afternoon matinée when ticket prices are cheaper .
A Nutshell Review : Cages	I've heard about the Cages project for some time , having read about its travels to festivals abroad , earning commendable reviews , and it's not difficult to understand why . With Cages , the definition of a " Singapore film " struck me a little - how do you classify or qualify one ? Does it have to be directed by a local , or so long as it gets set in Singapore ? Does an international cast help in boosting recognition , or must it be strictly acted by local talents ? In fact , I thought it doesn't really matter . Cages is written and directed by American Graham Streeter , and features a mixed cast of local and prominent faces from abroad . Perhaps it is this mix that allowed for unique ideas to be blended , like One Last Dance earlier this year , resulting in that special mix incorporated into a truly international " local " movie . And perhaps , these served as its strengths . One of the first things about the movie that you'll inevitably agree upon , is that the cinematography by Mark Lapwood is brilliant . It brought about a romanticized look to our sunny little island , similar to another local movie from last year - Gloria Chee's Smell of Rain . Be it indoor , or outdoor shots , the dim insides of a shophouse or the congregation of bird lovers in purpose built parks , it's quite surreal and strikingly beautiful to look at , causing you to do a double take wondering where in Singapore it's shot at , though at times the narrative did make it seem like one of those snazzy tourism board commercials . Cages tells the story of a single mother , Ali ( Tan Kheng Hua ) and her blind son Jonah ( newcomer Dickson Tan ) . Having unable to hold down relationships , theirs is a frequent shifting of accommodation , depending on Ali's lover of the moment , and circumstances led her to her father's place , going there much against her wishes , but without any other choice . We then begin to enter the lives of the three . Tan , the father , played by the late Makoto Iwamatsu , seemed to have let Ali and her mother down , having walked out when she was young . Ali , reluctant to reconcile and unable to forgive . And Jonah , sheltered because of his inability , and now given the opportunity to come out of his shell , and to possibly heal long suffering rifts . To some , it might be difficult to sit through the story as the pace is deliberately measured . It had a distinct feel of an American indie movie about dysfunctional families , and felt obligated at times to include cursory characters to highlight Singapore's multi-racial society . Nonetheless , in weaving its tale of hope and forgiveness , it did so against an interesting backdrop , taken from a rarely seen and fading subculture of bird rearing , and bird song-singing appreciation . A popular pastime amongst the older generation , this film earns its " local stripes " of merit for capturing this aspect of society , in its buildup to the fictitious Ang Mo Kio Songbird Championship , before it's soon to be forgotten . The performance of the cast is nothing short of excellent , though there are some momentary lapses into over dramatising their characters . Makoto Iwamatsu was perhaps the best performer amongst the cast , layering his Tan with more than meets the eye , from caring , pained parent , to a man with skeletons hidden firmly in his closet . Tan Kheng Hua , more familiar with local audiences in her Margaret role in one of Singapore's longest running sitcom Phua Chu Kang , allows the same audience not familiar with her stage work , to be exposed to the more dramatic aspects of her craft , through this movie . Newcomer Dickson Tan makes his debut similar to Theresa Chan's role Eric Khoo's in Be With Me , being the narrator , as well as the catalyst who bridges the gap between broken people , disability notwithstanding . But to those who are apprehensive about watching a serious dramatic movie , Zelda Rubinstein is at hand as a supporting role as Liz , who provides ample and well timed comic relief , though leaning towards dark humour , and relying plenty on her wit . If there should be any complaint of sorts , it'll be the moment of revelation , which came across as a little too contrived , and because local audiences would , I believe , be distracted by the sudden changes in locale and backgrounds , making the shouting match much less impactful . Cages opens next Thursday at the theatres . Visually stunning , with a subculture brought to life as a backdrop to a story on hope , healing and forgiveness .
A Nutshell Review : Wanted	A young man stuck in a mundane job suddenly got pulled out of it by a beautiful dominatrix , and into a world where it seemed like he's The One savior to rid the bad guys from the face of it . When the trailer first came out , there was word that hey , it's the Matrix all over again , this time with one of Hollywood's latest " it " boy James McAvoy ( it rhymes too ) in the starring role of an indestructible superhero with a penchant for the gun theatrics . Save to say though the storyline for Wanted is anything like the 1999 Wachowskis movie , for the sole fact that it's many miles away from the various philosophical musings that ploughed deep into the Matrix world . Based upon a comic book series by Mark Millar and J . G . Jones , Wanted is Russian director Timur Bekmambetov's first foray into the English language Hollywood big-budgeted blockbuster , and if you're looking for a no-brainer summer popcorn movie , then Wanted would be right up your alley . It's noisy and in your face , it's spruced by special effects , it has immense violence and it's littered with so much profanity , I thought Bekmambetov might have felt it was standard English . For those familiar with his Russian science fiction works in Nightwatch and Daywatch , Bekmambetov brings about the same distinct style of his in delivery high octane action , and balletic gunplay that would probably rival John Woo in the business , set against pulsating rock music , and plenty of bullet against bullet , in shots so cool , it deserved to be repeated again , and again , milking the one trick in various screen situations . From the onset , you know you're in for a ride that requires a suspension of belief . Wanted sits right up there with any superhero movie , because the characters all perform superhuman stunts , from leaping out of buildings unscathed , to possessing prowess that can be trained in weeks , to the creation of a Lazarus Pit equivalent to heal all bodily wounds . If any assassin can plough their trade as demonstrated in the story , I guess all of us have got to be afraid , from their 100 % accuracy from 10 , 000 miles , to - wait for it - curving a bullet around the bend via a flick of the wrist . OK , so all these might appeal to even the most jaded action genre fans , as it's honestly something that is refreshing , especially since it combined effortlessly with the visionary visuals of Bekmambetov . But Wanted gets plagued by lazy storytelling , even by standards for no-brainer action movies . The first few intertitles compressed the timeline from 1000 years to just 6 weeks ago , and undoubtedly the ending too reeks of carelessness and the same super summary . All these to tell a story of the transformation of McAvoy's Wesley Gibson from The Narrator to a Tyler Durden equivalent , complete with the account of daily drudge with easter egg visuals filling up the screen , as he channels his energies into the right direction of assassination after being accepted by The Fraternity , undergoing a training regime equivalent in toughness as experienced by Kung Fu Panda . Picking up skills from Gunsmith ( Common ) , The Repairman ( Marc Warren ) , the Butcher ( Dato Bakhtadze ) and The Exterminator ( Konstatin Khabensky ) - there you go , the equivalent of Crane , Mantis , Monkey and Viper - he's chief tutor is the ultra-skinny Fox , played by Angelina Jolie . Now we all know Jolie's body comes tattooed , and in her movies they usually get the full makeup treatment to mask them . I'm not sure if those are authentic tattoos on Jolie , but I guess they do provide you a hint at how they adorn her body . While not quite your Trinity type , she thrives on a whole lot of adrenaline that would make a drug junkie blush , and gets assigned the duty to train the rookie in the ways of The Frat , whose motto Kill One , Save A Thousand , she believes in wholeheartedly . I can't remember watching Jolie on screen and quite anorexic looking as well , though her new found uber-svelte figure gets featured in some of the best action sequences in the movie . As mentioned , you've got to leave your logic prowess at the door and leap into fantasy mode so that the action here would be plausible , and sometimes ridiculous to boot , especially when some unfortunate attempts at humor found its way into the mix . And I can't help but to laugh out loud when a crucial plot development sounded like a rip-off / broken record of another famous trilogy that will go unnamed here , which in actual fact can be seen coming from a mile away . But there is a saving grace to its limited intelligence though . It's a timely reminder again of how absolute power over life and death corrupts absolutely , and what's there to stop corruption at the top when they have the means and the firepower to exact changes ? And given anything that is prone to human interpretation , you'd come to expect some form of corruption , as folks at the top skew things in their favour , either for self-preservation , or climbing Maslow's hierarchy of needs . It explored this very quickly , mainly because it had to make way for more action , but I thought it was a somewhat good effort to have it included , no matter how small . Oh , and many things in the movie also went unexplained as well , so don't try to spend too much time figuring out how to harness the power of an extreme adrenaline rush . For those who like their screen violence graphic , unadulterated and unflinching in slow motion , reverse motion , and pulling out all tricks in the special effects book , then Wanted is for you . Otherwise it'll just be another routine exercise that is all style and little substance , something which most reviews tend to harp on , and I'll throw my 2 cents worth of contribution at as well .
A Nutshell Review : Shinobi ( 2005 )	There are many Romeo and Juliet type stories out there , and this happens to be one of them , set in Japanese medieval times , with fantastical martial arts moves that will probably wow action fans with their pace and brutality . It reminds me of the time when I was watching Hong Kong's Stormriders which somewhat raised the bar for such movies , and in terms of action set pieces , Shinobi doesn't disappoint . The story however , given its romantic element , somehow misses the mark . Yes , we know that it's written in the stars that the star crossed lovers are doomed to begin with when they fall for each other , having their only love sprung from their only hate , and it's actually quite a critical plot point in terms of character motivation when they become the appointed heads of their respective clans , but I guess romantic tangles get tossed aside when more room for action is required to satisfy genre fans . Shinobi is set during the time of feuding clans in the Tokugawa era . The Iga and the Kouga clans reside in hidden villages , and the Lord of Lords have just decreed that the clans can go on an all out war against each other . This naturally spells trouble for both Oboru ( Yukie Nakama ) and Kouga Gennosuke ( Jo Odagiri ) , who have recently professed their love for each other in secret . The decree dictates that each clan selects 5 of their best warriors to duke it out , and no prizes if you guess that both Oboru and Kouga Gennosuke are amongst the warriors selected . There's more political intrigue up the movie's sleeves , but these plots and schemes are secondary to the action that unfolds . Each of the 5 warriors have unique skills , and when they're exhibited , it's edge of your seat stuff excitement . However , the major flaw is that most of them are one skill wonders , meaning they're masters of that skill , and you see little more . It's akin to X-Men's mutants , and some powers though will ring familiar , like the blatant claws from fists , and healing prowess . But the best bits of powers though belong to our leads , because it's only natural for the most powerful to be leading their respective clans , but again , they suffer from limited fighting scenes . Most are quite violent and enhanced with some really nice special effects , but for those who are squeamish , you probably would wince at the stabbing , decapitations , etc . What started off quite promisingly , gets dragged into cliché-land . Shinobi though boasts some stunning landscape visuals , that will make you wonder if they really exist , or are spruced up with a computer . Strictly for those who enjoy Romeo and Juliet interpreted in various retellings and adaptations , and fantastical kungfu junkies .
A Nutshell Review : Unrest	This turned out to be a horror weekend , if I had opted to watch One Last Breath yesterday , a Japanese horror movie set in a hospital . Instead , I had chosen the Undead today , which also takes place in a hospital , not in the morgue but at a lab for anatomical lessons , where would be surgeons obtain their baptism of fire from those who had decided to donate their bodies for scientific causes . The gimmick ( if I can call it that way ) of this movie , is that it touts itself having to be the very first to include real dead bodies , aka cadavers , in film . That already gave you a natural queasy feeling that what's shown on screen , are actual bodies , and you wonder how the filmmakers got away with ethical issues and the likes . The very first time I've come up close with cadavers , was during an exhibition called Body Worlds where you have them dissected at various angles and at various stages , each in poses that exhibited how the human body reacts , involving which muscle groups and nerves . It was extremely educational , and one which opened your eyes to the miracle that exist within you , like a well oiled , well plumbed system only capable of being assembled by someone or something far superior . I wondered in amazement how so much can be jammed pack within a reasonably slim frame , and while the exhibition wasn't creepy at the least , you'd still wondered a little about the background of these donors , and where they'd come from . Dr Alison Blanchard ( Corri English ) is one of the new doctors chosen from amongst thousands to participate in anatomical lessons , but as you know with horror stories , things do go bump in the night , and having her stay in the dorm of the hospital doesn't help a lot . The cadaver her group gets issued start to give her the creeps , and while constantly reminded to treat their assigned cadavers with respect , there will definitely be the resident joker who will be the catalyst of things to come . Slowly she too starts to wonder about the background of the strange cadaver with self-inflicted wounds , and thus begins a race against time to uncover the truth and mystery behind a series of unexplainable deaths . As a horror movie , the usual tricks in the bag get unleashed at full velocity , with creepy sounds and light and shadow play all rolled into one and cranked to the maximum . Somehow the Undead felt like it was toying with you , bringing things to a crescendo , yet censoring itself from the violence and gore that you'd come to expect . While it deals with the supernatural , it doesn't follow convention of late by showing you , in full detail , how each victim dies , opting rather to save themselves the trouble to , and providing ( perhaps unintentionally ) some mystery behind the deaths . However , hope not for Asian horror like atmospherics , mood and buildup , as this movie tried to take a stab at that , but more often than not , failed miserably . While there are plot loopholes abound , and the cursory romantic tangle and several character motivations that were unclear and never answered , I thought what worked were its gimmick , and of course some very nicely done special effects , without which the movie will indeed fall flat . And those who have watched Mel Gibson's Apocalypto , will enjoy the back story The Undead weaved in greater detail , and reminisce that particular scene from Gibson's movie , where truly , it's more horrific to know that man had inflicted that kind of pain and suffering before .
A Nutshell Review : Helen the Baby Fox	Helen the Baby Fox belongs to the family of movies which feature cutesy animals and the relationship with their human protectors , along the lines of movies such as Lassie and Free Willy . Interesting enough , the subject of a fox ( besides fox vixens in many Chinese folk tales ) actually is a novelty in itself , and having bestowed upon him disabilities adequately fueled plenty of heartwrenching moments . A young schoolboy , Taichi ( Arashi Fukasawa ) , is a social outcast in school , with his vivid imagination he uses to spins incredible tales from . But these are the exact same fairytale-like stories which his mother ( Yasuko Matsuyuki ) spins for him , as she gallivants to far out locations for her photography fix , leaving the boy alone for most times . Fate would have him chance upon a baby fox , which utters nary a sound , which he likens to be in a similar situation as himself - abandoned . Again by chance , Taichi and his new found friend encounters a veterinarian ( Takao Osawa ) and her daughter ( Ryoko Kobayashi ) , the former quite reluctant to accept the baby fox for treatment , constantly reminded that he should not allow his kind heart to rule over their need for some serious dough to keep his business from folding . Convincing the vet to allow Helen the baby fox to stay and receive treatment , Taichi works on the farm to pay off his dues . And thus began a friendship amongst the clinic , and with the many other adorable animals living on the clinic grounds . The movie seemed to have two contrasting facades , and employed different techniques to highlight the different phases , as the relationship between animal and boy strengthened . The imaginary world from Taichi's mind , enhanced by special effects , gets transitioned ( and conveniently forgotten ) as the story moved towards a more serious " real-world " and the issues at hand with regards to the fox . Things change as the boy becomes more assertive and responsible as he takes on the surrogate guardian role , and the fox , being given a new lease of life from one without hope . Fans of Crying Out Loud in the Center of the World , would come to recognize Takao Osawa , who plays the vet here . You got to give it to the Japanese for the many picturesque landscape shots which provided beautiful dreamworld like scenarios in making the countryside so enticing . And trust them too in activating the tear ducts of those with gentle hearts . There are veiled attempts to subtly add in messages like thou - shalt - not - abandon - animals - or-your-kids , etc , but I guess if you don't buy in , you just don't . The pacing of the movie is relatively slow , perhaps deliberately too , but the ending just dragged , unfortunately . A victim of the multiple ending syndrome , I suppose it got worse as character relationships are suddenly revealed too little too soon without a warning in sight , which probably could have distracted the audience as it was disjointed and too convenient to be plausible . Oh well . All in all , it's a movie suitable for the whole family . One without the summer blockbuster violence , scary images , swearing and the likes . Just plain wholesome .
A Nutshell Review : The Alibi	A dream service for those adulterous men and women out there . A service which takes your calls , handles all potentially tense situations of private eyes and that suspecting spouse , essentially taking care of you on the side while you bang . Sounds good ? I think so too , at least in a business sense . Ray Elliot ( Steve Coogan ) runs such a service . It's a money spinner , based on statistics that one in 4 men stray , and one in 10 women cheat . He advertises his risk management career through word of mouth , and takes pride in his job in bailing clients out of seemingly explosive marital situations . The pre-requisites ? A calm cool mind that can spin out stories and tell them with a straight face . Lola Davis ( the hot Rebecca Romijn ) is his new management recruit , and without much orientation , plunges into the job head on . Initially you might think the movie will develop on the above company politics scenario , and have the two leads get involved with each other romantically . But no , before you can get to see the next fling , the movie heads on to classic crime noir territory . On his last field job , Ray's client accidentally kills his mistress in a bout of S & M , and it's up to Ray to clear the mess up , violating one of his principles that his company doesn't provide alibis for crime . However his reputation and integrity is on the line , and he has no choice but to cover it all up . And you'll probably wince at the amount of challenges Ray goes through in having this done , and having a price put out on his head . It's essentially one heck of a caper , as we witness how Ray Elliot schemes and plot to get his rear out of situations that's seemingly impossible , and incredibly lucky to get out of . It's full of crossings and double-crossings , and while you might be lost at certain plot points , just hang in there as all will converge for the finale , leaving you with a smirk , quite satisfied with the outcome . What's fun in this movie is the huge ensemble cast that play the many characters on screen . Another X-Men franchise regular , James Marsden ( Cyclops ) is here as the inept himbo Wendell Hatch , Ray Elliot's last client , and we have a myriad of characters like hit men , gangsters , cops , an unsatisfied wife , etc from a cast of Selma Blair , James Brolin , Sam Elliot , Jaime King , John Leguizamo , Deborah Kara Unger , and the likes . One thing's for sure , having a huge network of those whom you have deposited emotional or material help with , certainly will help bucket-loads when the time comes . If you're up for a caper , then I'd recommend The Alibi , for its fun .
A Nutshell Review : Divergence	Divergence is the latest crime thriller to come out of Hong Kong's film industry , and all films of this genre will nonetheless be compared with the grand-daddy of them all - Infernal Affairs , which set a very high bar . Given that this film is produced by the same team , you'd expect the same high standards . While production values are similar , I'd leave it to you to decide the end verdict . If you're expecting a strong cops and robbers storyline , then you might be disappointed . This film is heavy on relationships between the characters , their degrees of separation , and their duality . Which may not be a bad thing , but I find the dwelling on sappy moments and flashbacks a bit overboard , and at times , the audience was laughing at the improbability of these moments . This movie unites Aaron Kwok and Ekin Cheng together for the big screen after the comic fantasy movie Stormriders . Kwok plays a cop who lost his girlfriend under mysterious circumstances 10 years ago , and in the first 10 minutes , lost a key witness to a sniper , played by Daniel Wu , who always seem to be playing nothing but baddie roles these days . However , Wu's sniper character knows that in his career , he is both the hunter , and the hunted , and at times want to prove to Kwok that he makes a better cop . Ekin Cheng's a lawyer who defends the innocent , or so it seems . While he's aware that his clients are sometimes guilty , is he idly standing by ? Thrown into the mix are characters like Cheng's wife , played by the lovely Angelica Lee , who bears a strong resemblance to Kwok's girl , and thus making him a stalker of sorts , Eric Tsang as an underused pathologist , Ning Jing ( the only movie I saw her in was the remake of Shanghai Grand ) as a bald assassin agent , and Lo Kar Leung as Cheng's client who has shady underworld links and a pop star son , who gets kidnapped . At times you might feel that the movie plods along , while you might already have been able to unravel the mystery mid-way . This could be due to the sappy moments I mentioned earlier , and taking centerstage is how Kwok's cop character refuses to give up looking for his girlfriend . You can understand how the character feels if you're in the same shoes - loving someone so deeply , and yet having zero closure . And when you think you see her again - is it really her , or had amnesia played a part , or has she deliberately forgotten the past ? While the audience found the scene of revelation and Kwok's reaction to it funny , I felt the opposite - sometimes when the truth is revealed and you can't handle it , you shut down . Really . Trust me , I know . So if I were in his shoes , that'll probably be what will happen to me too . However , this film does have moments which can iconify it ( sort of like the Tony - Leung - pointing - a - gun - at - Andy - Lau's - head moment in Infernal Affairs ) . The " long run to the fish market " scene is tense , and so is the finale where 3 characters have a standoff , which actually yanked the rug off my feet . I felt that if this film focused tightly on the plot , and lose some peripheral characters , it might just live up to its potential , and I don't think we'll see any sequels to this one .
A Nutshell Review : Nothing Like The Holidays	Christmas has become so commercialized , no thanks to Santa Claus and the spirit of consumerism having to buy , buy , and buy some more to meet those pesky wish-lists of friends and family . I guess there's this feel good feeling to this holiday because it's just at the edge of the new year , and it's the spirit of sharing good tidings , and to look forward to better things ahead in the new year . But I share similar sentiments with the head of the Puerto Rican Rodriguez household , that it should be none other than a festival to have everyone get together . Edy Rodriguez ( Alfred Molina ) and wife Anna ( Elizabeth Pena ) look forward to Christmas because it's a time where family members far and wide , and doing their own thing , get to come back home to share in the festive spirit . This year's gathering is all the more special , because son Jesse ( Freddy Rodriguez ) is permanently home from his tour of duty in Iraq . There's eldest son Mauricio ( John Leguizamo ) and his wife Sarah ( Debra Messing ) who are two accomplished corporate folks in New York , and daughter Roxanna ( Vanessa Ferlito ) who's a Hollywood star in the waiting . Add friends such as Johnny ( Luis Guzman ) and Ozzy ( Jay Hernandez ) and you have one happening get together party , right ? Not quite , as the veneer of what would be a joyous occasion , get marred by everyone bringing their baggage to the table . Anna and Edy contemplate divorce , Jesse gets flak for being the hero , as well as being co-opted to run the family provision shop business . He also continues to nurse an aching heart toward ex flame Marissa ( Melonie Diaz ) who has now moved on . Mauricio and Sarah's marriage get strained by her refusal to bear children because of an impending promotion which she doesn't want to jeopardize . Roxanna is nowhere near being a star , still stuck at bit parts on television . Whew ! While billed as a comedy , it's not laugh a minute , even though there were a couple of smart one-liners to tickle your funny bone . Instead , it's quite a thoughtful drama to see how each character navigates through the sea of their own problems , and whether they are able to come out tops . And everyone could identify with one or more of the characters , especially in their attitudes toward family member , being envious of the more successful sibling , of favouritism , of being at loggerheads , of reconciliation , and ultimately , the notion of blood being thicker than water . Not all subplots get resolved amicably and reasonably , which roots this film to a tinge of realism rather than opting for a feel good fairy taled styled finale where every loose end gets tied up with a smile . Which makes this film stand out amongst the crowd of feel good Christmas theme movies out there this season . It's quite a compelling drama to sit through despite some story threads being just a little bit bare , but for the powerful ensemble cast pulling everything through as a convincing family unit , you might want to invest some time on this film as well .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) True Colors ( 1991 )	This should be my " John Cusack " holiday weekend , with 2 DVDs rented starring the actor . Earlier , I had reviewed one of his earlier works when he was a teenager - Better Off Dead , and here , I'd think it probably is his first role as a slimeball . John Cusack and James Spader ( Sex , Lies and Videotape ) play two friends , Peter Burton and Tim Gerrity , from Law School , and chronicles their friendship . They hit it off from a small automobile accident ( pardon the pun ) , and progressed from minor adversaries , to best of friends . Until Peter's ambition gets the better of him , as he aims to become Congressman in 10 years . From the start , we see a flip side to Peter's goody-two-shoes character . He always has something to hide , and has an ulterior motive to things that he does . He tells little white lies to get his way , and has a siege mentality that it's always him versus Them . He gets envious of Tim's seemingly good life , and coverts Tim's girlfriend Diana , who is the daughter of a Senator . And thus begins the Kane and Abel like story , of betrayals , and counter betrayals between the two men . Peter gets involved with the mob in his bid to become elected , while Tim , working for the Justice Department , volunteers himself to get the dirt on Peter . It's always about the girl , or is it ? And as Tim puts it aptly , only somebody close to you , can do the most damage . They know your secrets , and best of all , they have your trust . It's true though , if you think carefully about it , the best person to ruin you ( reputation , etc ) , is none other than the person you trust the most . Again , looking at the two characters , there is no right or wrong , it all depends on the methods one uses to achieve one's goals . It's also an interesting look at the shady dealings of politics , of allegiances made because of donations or help to campaign funding , of owing favors to those who voted in favor of you . Things are never that simple , and the mantra shared by both characters are , so long as you don't get caught . John Cusack has got this charismatic charm , and in this film , uses it well as he seeks to become a politician ( you have to have charisma as you deliver those speeches ) . James Spader too holds his own , as the naive Tim , who slowly discovers betrayal , and decides to turn the tables against the hunter . Fans of John Cusack , you must catch this ! Code 1 DVD is the bare bones version , aside from the usual audio and scene selections .
A Nutshell Review : Go West : A Lucky Luke Adventure	My first reaction to the initial few minutes of Lucky Luke's Go West adventure , is that it's one insanely funny movie with its plentiful sight gags , but that's it . Co-written and directed by Olivier Jean Marie , who migrated Lucky Luke's adventures to the big screen with this effort , the story tells of a gang of robbers known as the Dalton Brothers , four felons who are of varying heights , whose lifestyle is to get guns , rob banks , get arrested , escape , wash , rinse and repeat . Beginning in New York , the foursome in their latest robbery managed to hide their loot in a wagon before being busted by Lucky Luke , the renowned cowboy whose speed of the draw makes him renowned all over . But a band of settlers requested for Luke's assistance to lead them to their promised land , land that they paid to Crook ( yes , what a name , for obvious reasons ) who set a condition that the land he sold would be theirs only if they can arrive at the location in 80 days . So begins Lucky Luke's exodus with the European settlers leading them to the West Coast of USA , along with the Dalton brothers in his custody and their concern in regaining their loot from one of the settler's wagons , and Crook trying to foil everyone at every step of the way . Going by the crowd reaction , predominantly made up of children , it certainly got positive feedback through the cheers by the kids . And it's not difficult to see why , as there were plenty of funny situations to lighten up the mood of even the moodiest person in the house . Almost every scene has something interesting to look at , with the narrative being quite witty in itself , and when the need calls for it , larger than life action sequences detailing the ups and downs of the various characters in their seeking of individual goals . Lucky Luke , voiced by Lambert Wilson , quickly got forgotten though in the middle of the movie , and it became the Joe ( Vlovis Comullac ) and Averell ( Bernard Alane ) Dalton show , as the two steal the thunder from the virtually all-powerful hero . I guess it's no surprise that flawless heroes almost always tend to get upstaged by the villains , and here the villains clearly have more interesting facades to them , even though they may venture really close into stylistic and narrative influences of slapstick comedians . Given the crazy way the story develops , its unique visual animation showcasing that 2D still can hold its own against its 3D or CG counterparts , so long as you have material to satisfy your target audience . Suitable for both children and adults alike .
A Nutshell Review : P . S . I Love You	P . S . I Love You is a no-brainer for it to be released this Valentine's Day here , though the challenge of course will be putting couples into seats . Nonetheless everyone's in need for some form of love story , and this will likely fit the bill , although the story's as cliché as love stories can be , and it's not exactly new material for the screen , given that there's a Thai movie called " The Letter " ( Jod Mai Rak ) which likely had took a leaf from the source material , the novel P . S . I Love You written by Cecelia Ahern . Gerry ( Gerard Butler ) and Holly ( Hilary Swank ) Kennedy are a yuppie couple trying to find their footing in their married life - you know , the usual disapproval from their respective in-laws , Gerry's eagerness to have children , and Holly's perpetually sense of loss in her career , not knowing exactly what to do . We spend the first 10 minutes of the movie listening to typical couple bickering , before all of a sudden , Gerry bites the dust . Yes , you might think that given such a development , it's highly unsuitable as a Valentine's Day movie , but I'd say not to count your chickens first . Thankfully it doesn't dive into what Asian romances do - which is an extended hospital sequence with plenty of scenes to milk those tears out of your ducts - he goes , and that's it . But of course Gerard Butler's name is not on the marquee for nothing , and he's not gonna earn that paycheck so easily . In Shattered which was shown few weeks back , Pierce Brosnan had to opportunity to flex his natural Irish accent . Here , it's Butler's turn , and that probably fluttered the hearts of many females in the audience from the audible sighs of falling in love with that , a great departure from his yowling and screaming for blood in 300 which he is now synonymous with . As the story goes , his Gerry finally comes out with concrete plans , one that is to continue the romance and to help his wife tide through his loss , through letters , instructions and the likes , nothing short of what Keanu Reeves did with Sandra Bullock in The Lake House , although that one had a time sensitive element involved . I've always likened Hilary Swank to tough cookie roles , and Million Dollar Baby helped cement that fact . So to see her here , as a leading lady in a romantic movie , really took some time to get used to . Not to say that's she not pretty enough , but those biceps really complemented Butler's . If there's a weakness in the casting , I'm afraid to say that she's quite miscast because the role calls for a sense of vulnerability , and the inability to move on , and dwelling in one's loss . Hilary Swank doesn't project that , and unfortunately I thought that she could have picked herself up at any one point early in the film . For the most parts , the narrative replays and recounts the love life between Gerry and Holly , taking us to places where their romance started and blossomed , with a host of characters on the side , such as Lisa Kudrow and Gina Gershon being her great girlfriends , hunters on the side with Harry Connick Jr . and Jeffrey Dean Morgan the potential suitors , and of course , Kathy Bates being the mother . You can't deny though that there are some truths about relationships being communicated throughout , and those in reality are the gems the movie provides , and make great conversational pieces after the movie to discuss with your loved one . There's a nice , touching element of a surprise to it all too , though one can probably see it coming a mile away . There are definitely some flaws in the movie pertaining to coincidences of events , but hey , falling in love itself does take some believing in the flawed cosmic logic of the heart . While it's not a great romance movie , you'll probably be floored by the little thoughts that go a long way , and the transient notion of course to appreciate every moment with your loved one , and not wait for things to happen for the worse , to start reminiscing the loss .
A Nutshell Review : Adrift	The original Open Water had a couple stranded in the high seas when they went deep sea diving , and somehow missed the boat , literally , thereby being stranded in the middle of nowhere . The formula is now repeated in Open Water 2 : Adrift ( just called Adrift here probably to disassociate itself from being a " sequel of sorts " movie ) , with the number of couples increased threefold . But I can't judge which is better , having not watched the original . Adrift though seemed decent enough , with human nature for self-preservation portrayed so starkly on screen , it's scary . And having to bump up the number of those in trouble , allows for different views and types of people ( read : caricatures at times ) to be showcased . Each cast member have certain strengths , and some just have total negativity built into them , for contrast purposes . The setup is simple and we waste no time in being introduced to our characters , almost all of whom are high school friends , and gathered together to celebrate one of their 30th birthday . They go on a weekend cruise on a luxurious yacht , and it's party , party , party , enjoying the finer things in life . Until they decide to go swimming in the sea , did they realize that hey , did someone lower the ladder on board ? Otherwise , how are they going to get back to the deck ? It's down to the adage of looking before you leap , and that danger lurks when you're enjoying yourself so much , that common sense , precautions and safety get thrown in the wind . And when the severity of the problem surfaces , what do you do ? Are you the leader , the thinker , the whiner or the quitter ? When everything is fine and dandy , everyone knows how to enjoy to the max . But when there's an issue at hand , do you begin to point your finger at everyone else , or help to think of a solution ? And when all seems lost , do you give up , or try , try again ? The characters partake in exhibiting some of these traits at different points , and with time running out , and dehydration , paranoia and hysteria slowing creeping in , you'd wonder how long they'll last . It's human nature to instinctively try and survive , and watching the characters on screen do just that in spite of impossible odds , just makes your heart pound faster as you think - what would you do if you're caught in the same situation ? Would you bitch slap the complainer ? Would you follow instructions to a T ? Would you give ideas and shut up when it doesn't work ? And when all seems lost , what would you do ? Supposedly based on true events , this story might have its plot holes at certain times when you think , hey they should have done this or that , but I'd suggest to hold onto your train of thoughts , until a key revelation is made , to which you may nod in agreement why it happened the way it did , and that shake in disbelief when you think that when it comes to life and death , material things should be sacrificed first , and facing the music is just part of the inevitable consequence .
A Nutshell Review : How Much Do You Love Me ?	How Much Do You Love Me ? examines that emotion called Love , or what it's perceived to be . Will you make pretend and move in with someone ? Are you loving someone because of his riches ? Or because of his huge wiener or her hot body ? Is it purely lust or love ? And how in the world do fugly people snag all the hot chicks too ? Between money and love , which would you choose ( and taking too long to decide doesn't earn you brownie points ) ? Like Pretty Woman , only with less candy fluff , how can someone fall in love with a whore ? ( Ok , so it might sound politically incorrect , but that's how the movie plays it out ) A regular joe , Francois , falls for a prostitute at a bar . Played by Monica Belluci , Daniela is the obsession of Francois , as he engages her services for 100 , 000 Euros to live with him for a month ( she charges 150 Euros a night , so work out the math ) until he runs out of cash . A balding man who just won the lottery of 4 million Euros and some , he sure knows how to pick up and select his women . Soon after , Francois becomes the envy of everyone ( so is Vincent Cassell , but I digress ) , as friends like his personal doctor advises him to go easy on his escapades because of his weak heart . But in this black comedy , unfortunate events befall upon those who try to keep the couple apart . It's a tad interesting too as the movie plays out the fantasies of these nay - sayers , as they too lust after Daniela in secret . There's a twist to all the madness , and the final revelation will make you go " ahh ! " as the scheme is unveiled to a whacked out near ending sequence ( do I love that sexy dance move ) . However , as do most art movies go , the ending leaves much to be interpreted in many ways . The visuals are beautiful to look at , and no , I'm not just talking about Bellucci here , although I'd rather watch her in action than the other old babe Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct 2 . Blended with a lot of jazz , it has a bluesy feel to it all , punctuating melancholic mood throughout as felt by the characters . And it's the three key characters who keep the storyline interesting . A regular bloke buying his way to a woman's heart . A woman who whores because she wants to ( and probably satisfying her insatiable appetite for sex ) , and her gangster husband Charly ( Gerard Depardieu ) who allows her to do what she wants to , as his interpretation of love is the clichéd " if you love her set her free . If she returns she's yours " belief . In the end , love is also about respect , and that's the lesson Charly needed to learn . It's plenty talk about love , sex and even orgasms , and the highlight is probably the three way negotiation on the table as Francois and Charly haggle the price over Daniela . Can love be attached with a price ? How much is it worth ? The plenty of ah-peks in the audience will probably have an answer to this question , and no doubt , ensure this movie's longevity in local screens .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Way of the Gun ( 2000 )	Written by the same dude who wrote The Usual Suspects , The Way of the Gun is a much simpler tale compared to the award winning Suspects . It tells of two small time crooks , played by Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro , who get entangled in a game of crooks versus crooks when they try to pull of a kidnapping . Dreaming of bigger things in life , but regardless of the method used to achieve their dreams of riches , they overhear a conversation at a sperm bank clinic ( one of the most happening dialogues in the movie happens there ) about a surrogate mother bearing the child of some rich family . They decide to kidnap the lady , played by Juliette Lewis , and hold the mother and child hostage . However , they embroil themselves into a bigger web of intrigue , as every character , from the mother , the husband and wife who employed her , the doctor , the bodyguards , to the " bagmen " , all have their own agenda , and the relationships between one another must be one of the most complex written for the screen in recent times . Everything is more than meets the eye , and betrayals and double crossings are the agenda for the day . The pacing is well measured , and there are moments of suspense masterfully injected at points in the movie . I like the initial hostage taking scene , where the sudden shift of focus and introduction of complexity catches our two anti-heroes Longbaugh ( Del Toro ) and Parker ( Phillippe ) completely off guard . The car chase and pursuit is also one of the more innovative and quirky scenes in the movie , one which Del Toro actually suggested , and got it made on screen . You have to watch it to believe . The finale gives a kick to western shoot-em-up fans , as Longbaugh and Parker go head to head with everyone in a Mexican brothel , using modern day weapons of shotguns and handguns . Thrown into the mix is veteran James Caan , as a bag-man extraordinaire , having been so long in the business because of his experience in staying alive . Del Toro and Phillippe exude an excellent bond of camaraderie between their characters - they trust nobody except for themselves , while I thought Juliette Lewis was terrific in her role as the very pregnant mother caught between both sides , and yet bringing out strength as she fights for her child's and her own survival , taking her interests in her own hands . It's a good mix of action and workout for your brain as you figure out the relationships between the characters as the narrative moves along . Suited for those mundane afternoons in which you want to break out from . No special additions in this Code 1 DVD .
A Nutshell Review : Transporter 2	Jason Statham is back as Frank Martin , a man who lives by his own rules , a man with a military past who now works as a transporter , a man of few words , a man of action . Little has changed since the end of the first movie , he still drives a cool car , though the BMW has been traded for an Audi A8L W12 , and ploughing the streets of Miami , girls still find him irresistible ( who can forget Shu Qi appearing at his doorstep and throwing herself at him ? Here , Amber Valletta does the same . Lucky dude ) , and the men can't wait to sock his face . Many were surprised that the Transporter managed to gear up a sequel , but as far as I'm concerned , they can do a movie series with various cool cars waiting in line to be driven by Statham . Mercedes next ? But the plot for Transporter 2 had showed some shades of Denzel Washington's Man on Fire , especially in the beginning , only that the kidnap victim is a boy whose relationship with his protector isn't as drawn out or touching as that between Washington and Dakota Fanning . Thrown into what seems like a plot ( in an action flick , who cares anyway ? ) is bioterrorism , as a group of baddies orchestrate an elaborate plan to kill loads with a carefully manufactured virus . Flimsy plot aside , Statham delivers his punches well in action choreographed by Corey Yuen . Probably following the " Jackie Chan " style of using almost everything in a particular setting to wrestle with his opponents , Statham proved more menacing without the deliberate comedic acts that Jackie fuses into his brand of action . He might look a bit awkward with the metal pole , but the action sequence with the hosereel was fun , though short . As with Hollywood action flicks , don't expect the hero to be busted up too much , and he's always blessed with incredible luck and faced with enemies who are never marksmen . There are some obvious action flaws that might border on the line of absurdity , but heck , one's not gonna analyze beyond the belief that Lady Luck is smiling on Statham's Frank . The actions were left unscathed by the censors , only a lingering shot of the baddie's girl ( the one on the poster ) was snipped when the camera reached the upper torso . Have been a fan of Statham ever since his Snatch days , and it's a pretty decent action movie . Sit back , buckle up and enjoy the ride !
A Nutshell Review : The Unforgiven	No , this isn't about the US Marine Corps , with the tagline above used in Jarhead . The Unforgiven is a Korean army movie , which I likened in similarity to Jarhead , in that there is no war action . This independent film follows the life of a new recruit , Lee Seung-yeong ( Seo Jang-weon ) , in his journey through the Korean armed forces , and his brotherly relationship forged with his close friend and superior Yu Tae-jung ( Ha Jung-woo ) Regimental army life is not something that everyone who has a choice , would want to undergo . You lose your freedom , and life turns for the better or worse depending on what sort of platoon mates you get lumped together with . The basics of army discipline is the following of orders to a T , never question morality , never questioning correctness . So when you are an outspoken chap , and speak your opinion , you are easily shunned from and become what is known as the marked man , i . e . trouble with a capital T . This movie would have irked the Korean Defense Department , as it didn't portray army life with gusto or is politically correct in its portrayal of life inside the barracks . While you don't expect a 5-star hotel treatment , this film made the internal relationships amongst soldiers look like a bad case of high school ragging , with its seniority based concept of respect ( i . e . who's enlisted earlier should be accorded respect ) , in tandem with the usual rank-pulling . The way the recruits had to recite in a robotic way their rank and name , when called upon , also seemed a little insane . I think many here would go crazy if we shout out our rank-name - IC number each time we're called upon . Then again we shouldn't compare training methods , as they're technically still at war . Seung-yeong and Tae-jung's friendship is the spotlight of the movie , akin to the latter being a senior and a sergeant , looking out for the former , given that they're already friends before enlistment . While they are fast buddies , many whom Seung-yeong had irked , can't wait for Tae-jung to ORD , so that they can exact their personal vendetta against the outspoken chap . The narrative juxtaposes time without much warning , so you'll have to get used to the style and technique used as we follow the story of these two friends during , and out of the army . And the difference between the relationship with and without the uniform put on , is explored , and how one would perceive this friendship to be . There are quite a number of gay undertones , which while not explicitly shown , subtly prods you in suggesting that Seung - yeong had a soft spot for Tae-jung , incessantly looking Tae-jung up each time he books out from camp , and his desire in emulating his friend's treatment of him , which he mirrors in his treatment to a junior . In any case , watching this movie became a drawing of parallels amongst the " injustice " ( in quotes here , as it all depends on who's POV anyway ) many local males would have experienced in one form or another , and the recalling of memories , good and bad , of army life . Female local audiences might not catch much ball , as the brotherhood love and respect would seem alien .
A Nutshell Review : Mr . Magorium's Wonderful Emporium	Dustin Hoffman doesn't really quite marquee a movie now , doesn't he ? I still remember one of his earlier classics as The Graduate which still remains one of my favourite films ( " Do you want me to seduce you ? " ) , and his award winners like Rain Man , Tootsie , Kramer vs Kramer , or even commercial movies like Hero , Hook and Sphere . Lately though I felt he's relegated to support status and bit roles within ensembles , and even though he's the titular character of Edward Magorium , his screen time is still limited , mirroring Magorium's passing of the baton to Natalie Portman's Molly Mahoney the store manager . Written and directed by Zach Helm , who wrote the strangely surreal Stranger Than Fiction , I'd come to expect that while Mr . Magorium's Wonderful Emporium is like a nicer , friendlier version of The Little Shop of Horrors , it still in essence retains a modern fairy tale like narrative , with chapters unfolding between episodic scenes . The emporium is a magical toy store where toys come alive , like in other movies like Jumanji , Small Soldiers or even Toy Story , but no talking toys please , that'll stretch it a little too much . But the fantastical element here belongs to Hoffman's Magorium himself . While we know he's capable of feats , after all , the toy shop and its toys are alive , but the background of the character is deliberately left a little vague , only letting it on that he had lived way , way past retirement , and has decided to expire . In looks , he's like a cross between Albert Einstein with his frizzy hair , and an aging Willy Wonka in his Chocolate Factory , welcoming children everyday to make his place their playground , speaks with a lisp , and is an avid shoe-wearer . In character , cross Hoffman's mannerisms in Rain Man and comedic angle in Meet the Fockers , and you have Magorium . So what of Portman ? Her Molly is a piano child prodigy who got stuck , and finds herself working for Magorium in the magical shop . What she's lacking is the belief in herself , and one of Magorium's intention through implicit training is to impart some lessons in self - belief . Which means throwing her into the deep end of the pool , and therein this changing of the guard . Molly can whine , protest , and soon finds herself with enormous shoes to fill , but has her hands full in trying to convince a skeptic , Henry ( Jason Bateman ) the accountant brought in to do the books and company valuation , that the store is alive . Basically , it's a story about friendship , with new ties that bind , when old ties fade away , the never ending cycle of knowing new folk , while others sometimes unfortunately slip behind . The focus is strongly affixed to this theme , while those enticed by the Technicolor and expected a visual effects extravaganza as seen in the trailers , will be slightly disappointed . Sure , the effects were necessary to bring the Emporium to life , but not seen as primary , and definitely nothing truly groundbreaking . It's also suitable for those who grew up with lots of toys and spend time in make pretend and even talking to them , well , this movie is definitely for you . Sit tight during the end credits too , as the production crew get described in really child like terms , and is education for those who do not know what those technical terms normally mean . Sit through to the end , and get yourself rewarded with a small scene as well .
A Nutshell Review : A Class To Remember ( Gakko )	Gakko tells a simple heartwarming story of a group of students and their teacher , in one of the public night schools in Japan providing them education at the Junior High level . With night schools , you know that the students are working adults , and the narrative takes its time to dwell on the characters ' backgrounds , and their interactions with the teacher , how he helped them in their times of need , or simply being the beacon of hope for them . The first act does exactly that , and given its premise , I thought it was a dead-serious episode of Mind Your Language , minus the slapstick humour . There are hilarious moments , but nothing that tickles your funny bone until you cry tears of laughter . It was one of the more standard techniques used , with the premise set during the class ' graduation , and the final assignment being an essay documenting their thoughts about graduation . You have a diverse group of students , ranging from an elderly immigrant restaurant operator from Korea , a delinquent teenager , and a sleepy-head , amongst others , as flashbacks provide necessary background information on how they got to the class , forming the basis of an introduction to the characters . In the second act , it is a departure from memorable moments , to one of remembrance and tribute to a fellow student who had passed on . And it is this portion which lent a certain gravitas to the story , with plenty of heartfelt scenes about how an old man challenges incredible odds against his gaining an education . If I were an elderly man , then perhaps this character's never say die attitude , would have rubbed off onto me . The flute soundtrack / score was beautiful , and repetitive enough to make it stick to your mind after the movie ends . Cinematography again is simple , and you wonder if the zen inspired minimalist look and feel is opted for Gakko . You can't help but to notice a stark difference between this movie , and the slew of Hollywood contemporaries belonging to similar genres . While Gakko is quiet contemplation and reflection for the most parts , its recent peers are more flashy , more colourful and lively . The students too are portrayed differently . Contemporaries would lap at them about having serious issues that prevented them from excelling in school or have this " Me Against The World " mentality , but the Gakko students , while they have issues , are portrayed in a more positive light in terms of attitudes towards learning and life in general . However , the films all agree on something , that an inspirational teacher is all it takes to whip a class of misfits to shape .
A Nutshell Review : Cheer Cheer Cheer !	Cheer Cheer Cheer ! is your typical zero to hero student based movie , as the formula never ceases to churn out stories but under different student groups . My personal favourites to date have been Swing Girls and Water Boys , and although Cheer Cheer Cheer ! has much of the formula applied , it still falls short of becoming great . Momoko Momoyama ( Yui Aragaki ) is a romance novel buff , and one day she got hit by a baseball thrown by star player Hideki Oshima , who's also the school heartthrob . Infatuated with him , she starts to try out for the school baseball team , and the cheerleading team to cheer the baseball players on , but unfortunately just sucks at both . Undeterred , she befriends Ryutaro ( Kento Nagayama ) and becomes one of two members of the traditional cheer squad in the school . Mind you this is no pom-pom girls with short skirts twirling batons . I too wasn't aware that such a curricular activity exists until this movie opened my eyes to it . It involves some really structured shouting of slogans , foot drills , drum beats and flag waving , where booming voice is required to inspire fellow cheer members , and extended members made up of the general school population . The band of five have an arsenal of cheers to choose from , which sometimes involves very specific invocation of appropriate cheers that seem to incorporate some of the unorthodox such as the powers of Heaven , Earth and Heart . So formula dictates that both Ryutaro and Momoko have to round up the misfits and outcast and convince them of the virtues of devoting time to their cause in a recruitment drive , before realizing that they indeed are ill-prepared for the challenge ahead . At this stage you can insert as many stereotypical jokes of geeks in school being bullied by the alpha-counterparts . The makeshift team once assembled , can't cheer to save their own lives , and get external help comes in the form of alumni cheer squad members who don't want the latest edition of the cheer squad to ruin the art , and thus enlist them in a boot camp at a beach temple , much to the school children's dislike . While there are comedic scenes to pepper the montage of training sequences , and fun analogies on tradition and rationale behind such an activity , it does get a little too repetitive , and especially struggling through since this aspect forms the bulk of the movie , before devoting approximately 30 minutes for the finale . These long training scenes sagged the middle portion , which treaded on aspects such as walking the talk , and to find true meaning in the role they are about to perform . It's the usual building of the team spirit , and you somehow just can't wait for them to graduate so that they can show off their new found confidence and skills . The choreographed cheer of the Sakuragi school is indeed something to behold , but there seemed to be a distinct lack of fresh ideas , thus lapsing quite frequently into things we've already seen before . The individual actors ' charisma also helped to ensure that one-dimensional characters are quickly addressed , and each of the actors bring something different to the table in their respective roles . Don't expect anything special to be conjured , though the trailer did make it look as if there would be some street-fighter syled special effects that will be incorporated into the fight . If anything , this film is recommended to those who are new to the zero-to-hero genre and storyline , or those who don't mind spending time watching the tried and tested , with little adventure outside the genre's comfort zone .
A Nutshell Review : Broken Flowers	Folks from my generation will always associate Bill Murray with Mr-stay-calm-know-it-all Peter Venkman from Ghostbusters , along with fellow comedians and collaborators Dan Ackroyd and Harold Ramis . Of late , he has been playing nonchalant characters , and probably would be better remembered for his role in Lost in Translation opposite Scarlett Johansson . Maybe it's his style , that he projects he's sleepwalking through his roles , And this written-for-him role in Broken Flowers as Don Johnson , oops , I mean Don Johnston ( with a T , there's a running joke about the Miami Vice fella ) , a Don Juan type character , seems to have cemented that opinion . Don changes girlfriends like he changes his underwear . Not that he wants to , but his character makes him a difficult person to be with . We're led to believe that he has made enough from his computer business , and is in semi-retirement mode , doing nothing but watch television at the comfort of his home . His latest squeeze , played by Julie Delpy , has left him ( gee what a cameo ) , and so did countless others before her . But the pace picks up slightly ( it moves terribly slow throughout the movie ) when he receives a pink envelope , and inside a typewritten note , telling him that he has a son from an affair twenty years ago , and that son is now on a road trip looking for his father . However , the writer doesn't sign off , there is no return address , and the postmark is faded . Putting it off as a prank , Don's best friend Winston ( Jeffrey Wright ) tries so hard to infuse interest and curiosity into Don ( he's always putting on the deadpan facial expression ) , before Don finally , and reluctantly , accepts the itinerary given to him . Which is to revisit his old flames from around that time , to determine if they have in possession a typewriter , which probably was used to type that anonymous letter . You might think that the premise is interesting , though nothing new , like Chris O'Donnell's The Bachelor , or John Cusack's High Fidelity , where the protagonist revisits his ex-lovers to discover various happenings and encounter various weird situations . Here , we have a load of talent playing Don's girlfriends from the past , like Sharon Stone , Frances Conroy , Jessica Lange , and even Tilda Swinton ( the White Witch from Narnia ) with dark hair . Winner of Cannes Film Festival 2005 , be warned that this film is an acquired taste , and may not appeal or be enjoyed by many . Firstly , the pacing is slow . There are plenty of moments where the plot doesn't propel forward , and shots just stay where they are . Almost every transition from scene to scene utilizes the fade-to-black technique , and each scene is surprisingly short . Perhaps these techniques fit the Don character like a glove , highlighting his short relationships with each girl , and his indifference to the outcome of each relation . We see that each girl has moved on with her life , some married , some having children , some already successful in their business , and all totally in contrast with Don's laid back character . It is during these scenes of character interaction that we get to experience some comedy , otherwise the other half of the time , we see the usual repetitive shots in airplanes or inside a Ford Taurus , as if to highlight the monotony of travelling alone . Though it's rated NC-16 for some nudity here , the only nudity you get is from a character called Lolita ( Alexis Dziena , who plays Sharon Stone's daughter ) , and that's only a butt-shot . The entire scene ( which I think is full frontal ) gets edited out , and along goes the dialogue with it , which somehow screws up the entire episode . There are nuances and implications towards the end of that particular visit which will make you go " Huh ? " . Pity . Given the crowd in today's screening , I don't think an M18 or R21 is gonna hurt box office takings ( school's reopening as well ) . Now , with that bad edit , I'm sure many will steer clear . The ending is open ended , and is totally up to your interpretation . My take would be that while one half of the mystery is solved ( or perceived to be solved ) , the other half of the mystery is still out there . And by leaving it as such , it paves way for discussion , which always enrich the experience of watching a movie .
A Nutshell Review : Bachna Ae Hasseno	Ranbir Kapoor in his debut leading man role as Ranbir in Saawariya , didn't have the luck to snag the lady of his dreams , maybe because he was kind of a cad too , where karma had a part to return and haunt him . In his second feature film here , his Raj Sharma is again a cad , and credits himself being a " lady killer " , able to woo any woman when he turns on his charms . We journey with him as he learns the true meaning of romance and love , and the first half of the movie before the intermission , gives the audience three situations over the course of 11 years where he toys with the emotions of different girls , broadly the sweet , sexy and sassy type , until of course , Karma catches up with him again for that all important lesson . Girl 1 : Sweet . 1996 . Switzerland . In what would seem like a Before Sunrise storyline , Raj meets Mahi ( Minissha Lamba ) on board a Euro-train , and engineers his way to be able to spend time alone with his mark , on the pretext of sending her to Zurich to reunite with her family for their trip back to India . This episode sets the stage for Raj as the manipulative casanova , while Mahi is a very girly girl who harbours dreams of that perfect man , the perfect romantic encounter , and that perfect romance coming out just like her favourite movie . Only to discover that her puppy love , with sweet nothings and dedicated poems , resulted to naught when Raj's game is exposed . Broken Heart 1 . Girl 2 : Sexy . 2002 . Mumbai . Raj seemed to have moved on to another target , though it may seem from the onset he's already been domesticated by Radhika ( Bipasha Basu from Dhoom 2 ) , a hot model and aspiring actress who's his neighbour and they're living in together . Raj would have thought that a woman like her , stereotyped of course , would be easy and loose , living the fast life , and wouldn't want to be tied down to marriage because it will hamper her career . So when an opportunity to work in Sydney comes knocking and presents itself as a perfect moment to ditch her , to his surprise Radhika contemplates marriage , which he tries wholeheartedly to avoid . She's willing to sacrifice her career for him , but suffers the unthinkable in being left at the altar . Broken Heart 2 . Girl 3 : Sassy . 2007 . Sydney . It's actually quite a no-brainer to cast Deepika Padukone here given that she too , like Ranbir Kapoor , had 1 feature film under her belt , and are relatively successful newcomers to the industry ( her first effort was in Om Shanti Om , and more recently , Chandni Chowk to China ) . And ( ok Gossipy news ahead ) this film actually was the catalyst for their much touted romance ( and you can see the dynamics at work with some of the behind the scenes and interviews included in the 2nd disc ) . Anyway her role here as Gayatri , a business school student who works her way through school as a supermarket check out girl and a taxi driver , impresses Raj a lot , enough to romance her in Venice , and give up his gallivanting ways . Only of course for him to have met his match , and got spurned on his marriage proposal . She's a modern girl wanting to live life on her own terms , so being someone else's wife has never featured in her plans . What goes around finally comes around . Broken Heart 3 . Raj's . While the first half of the movie before the intermission was pretty plain sailing romantic stuff , the second half proved to be more powerful , because the protagonist finally has his eyes opened by his new experience , and realized he's been quite a bastard . So off he goes to make amends with the girls whose hearts he had broken , and mind you , in both real and reel life , this is never easy . Especially when you have to go back and face the women who had one point in time truly love you , and your actions had single handedly destroyed their belief in romance , and change or scar them for life . We get a lot more jet-setting as well , all worked into the plot , such as the visits to Amritsar , Capri and Rome , as we follow Raj on his mission impossible to seek redemption and forgiveness from a housewife with a protective husband , and another who's now a renowned model with success to her head . I had enjoyed this section more because trying his best to be honest now , Raj has to strip his ego and really crack his head to device his forgiveness plan . Also , we get to see the different demeanours that both Bipasha Basu and Minissha Lamba had to tackle given their characters ' failed romance with Raj , which had changed them either for the better , or worse . The songs here proved to be catchy and fitting to each of the sweet , sexy and sassy persona that the girls bring to the table , and the beautiful locales they were shot in again were draws . Other than the very first musical number Bachna Ae Haseeno which opens the film , you don't get to see everybody on the same scene together , as each storyline took place under mutually exclusive terms , in timeline as well as locations . If there's something to take away from the film , then it's the lesson that Raj learns , with the past being over and there's no longer control over it , but we can rectify things for the future if we take action in the present . Call me a sentimental fool , but somehow this works on me .
A Nutshell Review : White Noise	I skipped this in the cinemas for the sole reason that the trailer spooked me out ( hears chants of " chicken " ) but I grabbed this DVD when I saw it at the library , because partly I'm curious about the phenomenon , and partly because it's a long time since I last saw Michael Keaton on screen , given that not all his works , scarce they may be , make it here to Singapore ( the last perhaps could be either this , or the new Herbie movie starring Lindsay Lohan , which I also passed over ) . And I was pleasantly surprised at the way this movie turned out to be . EVP , or Electronic Voice Phenomenon , may be poo-pooed by skeptics , but the believers actually in all earnestness think they are assisting grieved folks in seeking the closure they are looking for . And their craft , though not perfect , does seem to take up enormous amounts of time in recording , playback and various digital manipulation ( hence throwing the doors open that it's subject to meddling ) . But if for one second , you were to believe it to be true , what then , as you'll probably be spooked out by that possible whisper not within natural audibility , as and when the hair on your back stands . It might seem like a dabbling with the occult , akin to the Ouija board where you communicate with spirits deliberately to seek answers , and get a response through the movement of a pointer on a board . You'll never escape from either skepticism , or warnings not to participate in games like these , because while there are benign spirits ( if you were to believe ) in the mold of Casper , then there would be those which are nasty and send you not too sublime , threatening messages to put you at your place . Michael Keaton plays an established architect Jonathan Rivers , who lost his beloved writer wife Anna Rivers ( Chandra West ) . Looking for closure , he takes up a chance offering by a stranger Raymond Price ( Ian McNeice ) , who exposes him to the world of EVP , and assists him in trying to open the doors of communication to the other / nether side . We follow in Jonathan's quest to get out of his grief , and dive into his obsession to reach out . But alas while the messages start to come through , they seem to be messages of instructions , and this makes him a little bewildered as to what's happening , as well as getting interference from some shadowy figures who seem to want to stop him . It's easy to understand why this movie wasn't well received , because of the subject matter , and how it all played out to the end . I thought it presented a thriller-mystery relatively well , combined with some elements of the supernatural , without much unnecessary jinks to try and throw you off the track . It's simple in delivery , and effective as well , though it didn't really take a stand on EVP . Also , some might find fault as to say that it really isn't a movie about EVP to begin with , as it skews a little on the phenomenon , but to that I say , whatever it takes to make an entertaining movie . Much of the movie hinged on Michael Keaton's performance , and it was nice to see him in a lead role again . When you talk about dark obsession , then he's the man , ever since he convinced fanboys that he's the right choice for the Dark Knight . Sharing screen time with him is Deborah Kara Unger as the bookstore owner Sarah , who's also a recent convert to EVP , and who finds herself intricately linked to Jonathan's quest and EVP findings . It might not deliver enough to spook you out , but in my opinion , it deserved to be rated far better than it was .
A Nutshell Review : Man of the Year	Imagine the likes of popular talk show hosts becoming the most powerful man on Earth . What do you think of the Lettermans and the Renos taking over the Oval Office ? Will their humour and mass appeal pull in the votes , and give them enough to win ? Or will they be in the mix solely for entertainment value , unable to put on the table serious issues that the fate of the country depends on ? There was a line used in the movie , which I thought was so true . The " perception of legitimacy is more important than legitimacy itself " . Like giving hope when you know things are rigged ( which in my opinion , every lottery is ) , that statement forms the crux in the story , and brings to mind whistle blowing events in recent history , and the effort taken to silence critics and detractors . Nothing reeks more than dirty politics , where it seems like the only way to play the game , and having no place for an honest man . Written and directed by Barry Levinson , the story is layered somewhat with some exploration into dirty corporations and ethics , or the lack thereof , and looks at the current political system in the US ( though the thoughts shared could be modified for almost every democratic election campaign ) , that candidates chalk up huge campaign funds , and where does the money come from ? The supporters of course , those who can contribute , and the unsaid word being some expected favours should be returned when the horse they back crosses the finishing line in first place . I'm a fan of Robin Williams , so Man of the Year was a no-brainer must watch for me . However , Williams did seem to be quite restrained in the introduction , where as political talk show host Tom Dobbs , he entertains the masses through his television show , produced by a very capable team behind him , led by manager Jack Menken ( Christopher Walken , in a role that fit him to a T ) . He jumps into the campaign trial by announcing his candidacy during one of his shows , and unlike his screen persona , he led the charge with a stoic nature , bringing up ( boring ) bread and butter issues as his agenda , repeating his mantra that he doesn't serve special interest groups like the others , but serves the common folk . But of course , don't expect Williams to be gagged for too long . As the strategy isn't working , he had to adopt his persona to engage audiences , and that's when the fun starts , with his poking fun at himself , the political system , and the process . There were genuinely funny bits , spread throughout the movie , though most seemed to have been centered within his awakened election strategy , and sadly too , only in a montage of sorts . And yes , do expect some parts to be censored as he crosses lines deemed to sensitive by the censors here . Accompanied by a great soundtrack ( you have to pay attention ! ) , it was the attempt to actually layer the story that seemed to dragged much of the pace . Without going into details , it had to do with the concerns for electronic voting , as well as a romance bit with Laura Linney's Eleanor Green , the system developer , that wasn't convincing enough , and sagged , as it can't decide if it wanted to be a romance , or a conspiracy action thriller , well you get the drift . Jeff Goldblum plays a supporting role here as a corrupt legal adviser , again in a stereotypical role that condemns company lawyers as conniving , sneaky and dishonourable . All in all , it's still an enjoyable movie not without its flaws , but for a rainy evening , something good enough to sit through while you wait out the rain .
A Nutshell Review : Madagascar : Escape 2 Africa	Ben Stiller , Chris Rock , David Schwimmer and Jada Pinkett Smith are back in their animated animal roles which 3 years ago saw their zoo animals being transported to Madagascar in a typical fish out of water tale , where they had to rely on their street smarts and friendship to survive in an environment they do not fully understand . While it's the usual pop-culture jokes and witty one liners that plague recent animated films , there were some gems in that movie , the ones which stuck suck as the crowd favourite penguins stealing the whole show , as well as the madcap rave party tune Move It ! Beginning directly where we last saw Alex the Lion ( Stiller ) , Marty the Zebra ( Rock ) , Melman the Giraffe ( Schwimmer ) and Gloria the Hippo ( Smith ) , the penguins have finally built a plane that ought to bring our merry crew back to New York , together with Julien the lemur ( Sacha Baron Cohen ) and his sidekick ( Cedric the Entertainer ) , but of course should that happen , there'll be no sequel to begin with . So we have the crew crash land into the continent Africa , thereby guaranteeing yet another tale of being from the outside , but now having a habitat that's much closer to their natural environment , one which sees the animal types in question grouped together into one reserve for storytelling convenience . Directed by Eric Darnell and Tom McGrath , who also provided the voice of Skipper the head penguin , the storyline might seem like a poor man's cousin to Disney's The Lion King , what with exiles and alpha-lions battling it out to be king of the habitat . The filmmakers had taken the opportunity to craft the backstory for Alex a little more , so that the main plot of his return to his home could be dwelled upon , with sub plots for the others to fall into place . You have Alex's return and reunion with his parents , with adversary coming from an earlier generation , there's Marty who discovers that he's no longer unique but the same as every other hundredth zebra out there , Glora looking for love with other hippos now that there's no lack of suitors , and Melman fighting his own cowardice to reveal his feelings for Gloria , as well as being appointed the witch doctor for the land . And if you think that the primary voice cast is already A-list , the film piles on to that list with the likes of the late Bernie Mac voicing Zuba the alpha-lion , Alec Baldwin again in a villainous role as his rival Makunga , and Will . i . am of Black Eyed Peas in a hilarious role of hippo-Casanova Moto Moto ( the name's so good you have to say it twice ! ) The songs department falls up a bit short this time round , though thankfully " Move It ! " wasn't conveniently and lazily played ad-nauseam . Given the army of illustrators working on the project , you can't expect quality to drop from its predecessor , though there's nothing new to be injected into a mature presentation . Despite the plundering of the same old family values / theme / storyline and the importance of establishing strong friendships , this new Madagascar managed to deliver on multiple fronts , joining the ranks of the few whose sequels are superior than the original . The comedy which got piled up here managed to work through the punchlines , leading to a number of characters like the monkeys and even the tough-cookie granny to steal some limelight from the lovable penguins . If you liked the original , then you'e likely to fall in love with this one .
A Nutshell Review : Hock Hiap Leong	The title of Royston Tan's short film refers to a coffeeshop by that name , which has since closed its doors . Like an ode to the shop and its owners / stallholders , memories of the 60s heydays are brought back in a song-and-dance routine which includes the beehives and a-go-go moves . The beginning looked similar to Moveable Feast , with its protagonist taking in the sights and sounds of the aged-old coffeeshop , and laughter abound when he breaks into a song , complete with high pitched girlie voice , kinda like a bollywood movie with numerous male and female dancers going through their paces in the cramped setting . Enjoyable short clip , leaving you wanting more .
A Nutshell Review : Appassionata	The Japanese Film Festival this year had a number of biographies in its lineup because of its theme , and it's no surprise that Appassionata falls into this category , telling a summarized life story of Japan's female painter Uemura Shoen , who was the first woman to have earned the Order of Culture , Japan's highest award for cultural achievement . Most of the narrative had focused on her humble beginnings , and it went as far back as tracing her mother's roots , as it is this relationship between mother and child that also took the spotlight . Born Tsuya Shinamura ( Yuko Natori ) , her talent for painting was discovered at a young age , and was brought under the tutelage of renowned artist Shokei Takagi ( Kei Sato ) , who in a scene , was shown to be capable of painting 1000 drawings in a marathon session , using only black ink and a thick brush . And while Tsuya herself begin to win awards for her works , tongues get wagging that she's sleeping her way to the top of her game . Now this is something that did seem a little strange and I felt was left ambiguous at best , because a most it's only an allegation , which the story and the film took and ran with it . On one hand it showed that Tsuya had every opportunity to escape the indecent proposal , but she didn't , and in the ensuing " rape " scene , might seem to have enjoyed ( ? ! ) it knowing very well what it can do for her career . But I would prefer to have looked at another angle , that she had no choice , given the circumstances of the society of the time , where women were characteristically submissive and have absolutely no say whatsoever in society , most of the time looked upon for sexual favours . She's stuck in a damn-if-you-do-or-don't situation , unfortunately . And Shokei was a man you'd love to hate , right down to the core . Without a doubt the central " villain " , here's a man who had abused his position , status and power , to satisfy his lust . A liar and a man of questionable honour , these are the kinds of folks that any society just can't seem to get rid of . Each time Kei Sato appeared on screen , trust me , I swore and cursed at his character . But it's not just about these sexual dalliances . What was more powerful here were the themes of family , love and forgiveness . Society at the time dictates that family is of utmost importance , and chastity is held in high regard . Illegitimate children born out of wedlock is perhaps one of the greatest sins that a woman can commit , and here , the emotional tussle between Tsuya and her mother Sei ( Mariko Okada ) was the best amongst all the scenes in the movie . It's never easy for a single parent ( already a handicap in Japanese society , without a man as the head of the household ) to raise children on her own , and what more when additional , unnecessary challenges present themselves , one which bring shame to family and ancestors ? The themes of love , and forgiveness , especially in the finale , will probably move you , after all , blood is thicker than water . Jo No Mai refers to the dance of a young geisha , one of the more prominent works of Uemura Shoen , and in this movie , most of the award winning paintings were up on display for the audience to gain a slight introduction to her collection of paintings . What I thought was quite sad was that in order to earn a living and make money when turned away by most people , she had to resort to compromising her philosophy for the art by degrading her works into erotic pornography in order to make a quick buck . Desperate times call for desperate measures , but s till , it's quite sorrowful .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Interview ( 1998 )	Most audiences around the world would by now know who Austrialian actor Hugo Weaving is , after appearing in big budgeted Hollywood trilogies like The Matrix and The Lord of the Rings . The Interview presents one of his earlier works in an Australian film , and my , does he show off his acting chops in this . Hugo Weaving plays Eddie Fleming , a simple man whose just been retrenched from his job , separated from his wife and living off state welfare . The film begins with him being literally yanked off his sofa chair at home , when the cops barge in and arrested him with strong arm tactics . Later he's told , that he's in for a car jacking incident . However , Fleming pleads innocence to chief interrogator John Steele ( played superbly too by Australian actor Tony Martin ) , who has a reputation of solving crimes , regardless of the methods used . It's one man against the other , as Fleming initially begins as an innocent helpless man , clueless to why he's bring held in a police station , undergoing an interrogation . As we go along , we see a power play between the two men , as each try to gain one up against the other . We start to question Fleming's innocence , as he begins to drop various hints that he might be involved in the crime Steele is investigating , and perchance , might be the serial killer Steele is looking for . The tension built between the two is tremendous , and both hold court against each other . Also added to the subplot is the exploration of ethics into Steele's techniques , and the politics of policing , investigations and the conducting of interrogations and interviews . It's excellent storytelling if you're willing to put up with little or no action , but laden with plenty of insightful dialogue . Weaving adds a beautiful dimension to the character of Fleming - innocent man , guilty sinner , schizophrenic , or just manipulator ? You'll also learn a bit about the Australian police and justice process at the evidence gathering stage , and one in which Fleming takes advantage of quite skillfully . So for fans of Hugo Weaving , you might want to pick up this DVD to check out his performance . This Code 1 DVD contains the theatrical trailer , cast biographies , cast interviews with Hugo Weaving and Tony Martin , an audio commentary by the director / writer Craig Mohanan , and deleted scenes , one of which features an alternative ending .
A Nutshell Review : The Orphan	As a fan of Bruce Lee , I've seen his landmark movies countless of times , from The Big Boss right up until Game of Death . However , he's appeared in non martial arts roles before , and I wouldn't have missed the festival's screening of The Orphan for the world , being projected in 35mm glory from the Hong Kong Film Archives , though with some colour correction irregularities that had the film sitting in a lab for 30 years . But that's another story altogether . The first few minutes already got my interest piqued , not because my idol had appeared , but for its documentary value in seeing Hong Kong in the 60s , fronted by an almost unrecognizable harbour front . Outdoor shots though were few and far between throughout the movie , and for a 60s movie like the locally made Lion City , one chief reason besides nostalgia , is to gawk at how advanced a city has progressed through the lens of a movie camera . I thought something of value here , which I wasn't aware , was how even Dragon Dance has evolved ? it wasn't as if the entire dragon piece was stitched together in one seamless fabric , but was rather quite fragmented , with sections of the head to the body connected by rope , looking as if it was a really nasty and mean looking creature with protruding skeletal structure . Interesting . The story wasn't something to shout about , largely centered upon a director of an orphanage school , Ho Si-Kei ( played by Ng Cho-fan , who also wrote the story ) , who had lost his family during the war , where the daughter and wife perished from a collapsing wall , and the son and nanny disappeared , whereabouts unknown . While he may have lost his family , in return he got a new one through his care of the many orphans in the school . It's not that difficult to see that the film was intended to address some of society's ills and indifference , especially to youth and youth crimes . There was lengthy discourse between characters about what affluent society should do to attempt to arrest the root of juvenile delinquency , and of society at large shirking responsibility in the pursuit of wealth . The wealthy , though stereotyped , get to be put on the spot , and probably reflected what the working class's perception of their unwillingness to lend a hand . In fact , they don't really redeem themselves even in the end , probably largely reflecting on their reliance on the good Samaritans to do what is right , and to combat juvenile crime single handedly . That got personified through Ho Si-Kei , and at times you can feel his loneliness at such an uphill battle . He got brushed aside by wealthy families who probably alluded his presence to asking for donations , he has difficulty in trying to attract and retain teaching staff ? it isn't easy trying to teach and inspire wayward youths ? and actually becomes the sole decision maker in the running of the school , as if lacking administrators . In all , a one man show , and for someone who prides himself at teaching and obtaining results , the last act has him in shock when a surprising discovery turns out to be sort of a slap in the face for all he stood for . Besides a short sub-plot about possible romance between him and a fellow teacher , the star of the show is undoubtedly Bruce Lee as Ah Sam , a petty thief fashioned after Oliver Twist , whose inclination for thievery stemmed from a need to belong to a larger family , where he's doing not so bad in terms of hierarchy ( No 3 in the gang ) . And you'd have a chance to discover that he's quite the dancer too with his mean cha-cha moves , linked to delinquent lifestyles to be frowned upon at that era . While he's usually stoic and a man of few words in his more renowned movies , here he's got plenty to talk about in presenting himself as a street corner gangster , and it's really rare to see him being really loose with his mouth where swear words fly , and I don't really recall his lighting up of cigarettes in those movies too . There were two sides of his character here , the filial one in front of his nanny , and the real , confused him when out there in the real world . Given storytelling techniques of the past not being too refined or subtle ( the music usually lets the cat out of the bag ) , you would just know the big important secret when both Ah Sam and Director Ho cross paths . Although the final act might seem a little messy and hastily reconciled , the fun factor in the movie still belongs to Bruce Lee in a role that is not often seen by contemporary fans of his , and for that , like the other movies in his filmography , should be seen more widely when opportunity presents itself again .
A Nutshell Review : Pathology	From the West with the latest Saw installment or the indie Unrest , to the Asian counterpart in Body # 19 , dead bodies / cadavers continue to be milked for cinematic horror , not that you'd expect them to turn into zombies and start craving for human flesh , but for the amount of gore that an autopsy can provide when it's shown in your face , with skin and fat pulled back using tools of the trade , coupled with internal organs on display to challenge your stomach . Pathology provides a narrative reason , using forensic science in allowing bodies to be piled on screen for the working pleasure of pathologists in training to hone their craft in determining causes of death . Milo Ventimiglia stars as Ted Grey , the best of the best amongst his cohort , joining a new fraternity with his glowing credentials , only for the local boys and girls to feel threatened with his arrival , and setting up a keen rivalry . Besides involving some one-upmanship amongst themselves in proving their worth in class , something also seemed to be brewing beyond the confines of the classroom , and geek pride coupled with loneliness away from fiancée Gwen Williamson ( Alyssa Milano ) makes Ted vulnerable to the seduction of power play from chief rival Jake ( Michael Weston ) and from the opposite sex courtesy of Juliette Bath ( Lauren Lee Smith of Lie with Me fame ) . Now from the onset , I thought this would be your usual frat-boy falling into the doldrums and then crawling his way back up again kind of story . Surprisingly , Pathology offered a little more , and was close enough to achieve greatness , if not for some very glaring suspension of disbelief required on the part of the audience . The students had to perform the perfect murder in round robin fashion , and then allow for their peers to determine from the bodies , evidence to support their theories on how the crime was committed . All this while , the cops have no idea what's going on , but that's only because of the lack of a cast member playing characters upholding the law . It was interesting though to follow Ted's fall from grace and succumbing into the world of sex , drugs , and the thrill of putting their medical knowledge to use in becoming murderers . Yes , it's that kind of a movie with loads of moral ambiguity , especially when the character of Jake got seduced into crossing the line of no return , becoming , in their own words , a serial killer of sorts . Stakes of course get raised as the movie went along , and the finale brought on things quite unexpected , relying on the perennial twist to provide sweet satisfaction , with mixed results . But don't approach this expecting loads of intelligence being lavished upon the story . It works for a while but doesn't hold up much under scrutiny . The great looking casts help too in roping in its target audience , and I thought Ventimiglia resembled Tobey Maguire enough to wrestle the mantle of the spider should the latter decide not to continue the lucrative franchise .
A Nutshell Review : A Class To Remember II : The Learning Circle ( Gakko II )	Gakko II , or The Learning Circle , is not a sequel to Gakko in the strictest sense . While Toshiyuki Nishida returns in this Yoji Yamada directed movie , he is not the same respected teacher that was introduced to us and we fell in love with in the original movie . The school's different too . Here , he plays teacher Ryu , and teaching in the Ryubetsu Handicapped High School , a school for the intellectually and mentally challenged . It's a very different look and feel from the original . While it had fewer key characters to focus on , it didn't mean that the story would be less rich than the first . In fact , in terms of content and depth of the story , this one is a notch better than the first . There are a few plot points running concurrently . Two boys from the school , Yuya ( Hiroshi Kanbe ) and Takashi ( Hidetaka Yoshioka ) , leaving and embarking on a journey of bonding , bringing out the best in each other , and having to fend for themselves while being out in the strange world . There's also a look at a new teacher's inability to handle the highly volatile Yuya ( yes , this kid literally shits and pisses in his pants ) , and of Ryu's road trip in search of our missing students . The first movie had its premise look episodic with its different compartments for different characters , rarely crossing the line between one sub plot to another . Here , this constraint disappears as we venture into the vast outdoors with the characters , and even at one point , up into the air . And something to note , that Toshiyuki Nishida's Ryu isn't the infallible sensei as we would expect him to be ( though I miss his nose picking teacher in the first ) , as he grapples with having to find a solution to handling his family problems , and the difficulty in connecting with his estranged daughter . Oh , and is that Ayumi Hamasaki who opened the film in a less than 5 minute appearance as the daughter Ryu ?
A Nutshell Review : Unleashed	Unleashed , aka Danny The Dog ( the original title , and the name of Jet Li's lead character ) , is the latest of a Euro-production meant for the Hollywood market , this one being a French-UK collaboration , with a mainly European production crew , of which the most recognizable name is French director Luc Besson , as the writer of this story . Known for his gritty tales like The Professional and Kiss of the Dragon ( also starring Li ) , you'd expect something special from Danny The Dog ( " Unleashed " was just typed over the main credits , you'd know what I mean ) . However , the premise is a bit ludicrous and please , leave your brains at the door . Otherwise you'll have trouble understanding why Danny chose to be treated the way he is , given his incredible fighting prowess when his collar's off . A title with " the dog " , and references to dog-calling names like " attaboy " , " bitch " , etc , obviously do not go down well , and probably won't be tolerated by the Asian market , given the derogatory connotations , hence the classier name " Unleashed " . Actually everything has doggie connotations - from the collar to Danny's new surrogate father being a blind man . Some characters bark occasionally too . But the plot is a bit of a let down , given the main theme which it tries to dwell upon - Family , without much success . Danny lives in a world of thugs and violence , and this world turns upside down when he experiences the sweeter side of life - the normal ones that you and I lead , with Sam ( Morgan Freeman ) and Victoria ( Kerry Condon ) . Of course when the thugs threaten the new family , you'd expect all hell to break loose as Danny fights to defend the opportunity of leading a new life . While the action is stylized in the trailers , there isn't much to offer in the movies , despite its explosive start . You can plenty of throwaway characters that Jet dispatches without much sweat . Given the plot straddles between action and melodrama , the former somehow has less screen time - if you want to make an actioner with Jet Li , the action must stand out , no ? All you get are basic street fights with Jet hammering away , and hammering , and hammering some more . You get the drift . The soundtrack is done by Brit trip-hop masters Massive Attack ( one of my fav groups ) , and I actually enjoyed their music being featured in the movie - I think I'm gonna enjoy it more as I identify the tracks being played at particular points in the movie . I'm not sure if Jet Li had actually opted to do a more dramatic piece , but this film's premise offers him a weak chance to show his acting skills - the audience , in my opinion , as bloodthirsty as those in the underground fight club , secretly hopes that the drama be minimized . It does drag at times , and offers little depth to plot . Reommended for Jet Li fans only , and even then you might come out disappointed with this effort . Luc Besson , surely you can write better stuff !
A Nutshell Review : Inside Deep Throat	This is not a porn movie . It is a documentary about an adult movie ; not just any adult movie , but the one which you can answer " who's your daddy ? " to . Deep Throat premiered in 1972 , in an era of sexual awakening on film , where highlighting and building a film around that one sexual act is a novelty , bringing in an enormous Return On Investment ( 600 million revenue from a cost of 25K ) for the filmmakers , who somehow never got rich from it , monetary and otherwise . Inside Deep Throat brings us back to that era , exploring what was , and how this one film revolutionized the adult film industry in the USA . This documentary , narrated by Dennis Hopper , interviews both the filmmakers behind the scenes , as well as the lead actor . We only get to watch archived interviews of the lead actress " Linda Lovelace " , as she has passed away in 2002 from a road accident . Nonetheless , from the footage , we can see her enjoying her 15 minutes of fame ( infamy ? ) , before transforming herself from sex siren to victim to feminist and back to fire one last salvo in Playboy magazine . The interviews by the cast and crew are earnest , and at times comical , given their reminiscence of the role they had played in contributing to the industry . Even when they came up with the idea of revolving a film around one sex act , they weren't really convinced that it might pull off . In fact , given the government's crackdown on the film , which premiered in NY's Times Square , curiosity from the masses start to propel the film into its legendary status . We're brought from pre-production all the way to film distribution , which had shady links with the Mob , to censorship , crackdown and prosecution . We also see the ( negative ? ) impact that the film brought on to its filmmakers and cast - life isn't really a bed of roses given the film's huge box office success , and we wonder , did they become victims of their own success . Viewers in Singapore would still not have the opportunity to see some " action " from Deep Throat , even with the R21 rating - you'll only get to see the safer portions of Deep Throat , and jarring cuts leave the rest to your imagination . So for those who just want to know a bit more on the adult film industry ( hey , I didn't know they had an equivalent of the Oscars ! ) , discussion on censorship and freedom of speech , then you might want to consider this documentary . For those who want to leave your moral values intact , give this one a miss .
A Nutshell Review : The Leap Years	The Leap Years , aka Leap of Love , was a long process in the making . Having tracked this movie for a number of years now , it is going to make its debut this year premiering exactly on Feb 29 no less . While there were the usual production woes , I thought that this was one of those projects that remain in development hell , and given the overlong trailers being played in the cinemas - I didn't time it , but it was more than 3 minutes long - I thought it would be one of those that would sink immediately upon release , despite having international flavour with the casting of Joan Chen and Ananda Everingham . Well , the good news is the Singapore's first English language romance movie passes the litmus test . Based on the novella by Catherine Lim , The Leap Years tells 2 stories in parallel , but both centered on Li-Ann and her friends through a period of 16 years ( 4 leap years in total ) , consisting almost every boy - finds - girl - loves - loses - etc plot point you can think of . And for the most parts , it was almost like a self-fulfilling prophecy of a fortune teller's advice to Li - Ann on her love being one like the wind , which delivered yet another set of clichés like Windows Cafe , mini toy windmills , and moments where long hair gets swept away like Bollywood movies . Li-Ann actually had three actresses portraying her . The first is Beatrice Chia , who only provides the narration . The second , Wong Li-lin as Li-Ann in her 20s-30s , and Joan Chen playing the same character , now much older . Chen had only a bit role though , which probably didn't challenge her in the acting department , and the short story is about her trying to find some reconciliatory factors with her teenage daughter , and you realize that she probably missed the kind of close-knit mother-daughter relationship that she had when younger , and trying very hard to replicate . Wong Li-lin anchors the entire movie with her heartfelt portrayal of Li-Ann . Forget about her dismal big screen debut in the horrid German movie which had her almost sleepwalking through it like a zombie . This one showed what she can do , without succumbing to acting cute unnecessarily . Her Li-Ann has never dated and has been holding out for someone special , and chances upon Ananda's Jeremy at an al fresco cafe one day . So the usual games people play begins , with her putting some Irish 29th Feb tradition to the test , and he plays along , towards the goal of setting up a blind date . Naturally not everything is as rosy as it seems , since the games ended after a magical outing together , with their pledge of meeting at the same place at the same time , every leap year on her birthday . Cliché lines get thrown about , like the frequently used one about better to have loved and lost than to never had loved at all , but the key theme here is about patience . If you deem him or her special , it's well worth the wait , isn't it ? Only fools rush in , as they say . So do expect lines being spouted explicitly which might make you cringe a little , or implicitly suggests something that you'd probably already know of , from the wise old sayings of those who have been there and done that . It's almost like a typical romantic chick flick with the whispers of sweet nothings , promises made , and the quintessential scenes of shopping and lots of clothes . The soundtrack is chock full of lovely ballads by Corrine May , and you'd probably would be enthralled by how familiar locations become quite the romantic backdrops in the movie . Familiar also applies to the supporting cast , with the likes of Nadya Hutagalong and Vernetta Lopez playing good friends , as does Qi Yu Wu as KS ( Kiasi ? Kiasu ? Kana Sai ? Anything but actually ) . I thought KS was a source of inspiration for those out there still carrying torches for others . It was an easy anchor point for me to dive right into the movie , with the classical example of loving someone who obviously doesn't love you back , and there comes a point in time where you have to wake up and realize your futile efforts . The reality of it is harsh and cruel at that point in time , but to be able to find strength and pick yourself up , that's quite an achievement in itself . The Leap Years borrows its strength from Catherine Lim's story , and goes to show that no doubt the clichés are abound , this is something of a Singapore movie to be proud of - with a mix of homegrown and international talent , and a story that's purely on love and romance , and not hybrids like romantic-comedies or romantic-tragedies . Love is in the air , and for gimmick's sake , I would recommend this to be watched on the 29th of Feb , and see if you buy into that Irish folklore . I would play along though . . . but now to have someone make that proposal . . ha !
A Nutshell Review : Moveable Feast	Who would have thought this short film , directed by Sandi Tan in 1996 , would begin my venture into Screen Singapore . And it didn't help that it featured gastronomical food when I hadn't had my dinner prior to the screening . Narrated by a teenage boy , he brings us through to the various sights , sounds and characters ranging from a coffeeshop , to a Chinese wedding dinner in a traditional Chinese restaurant . Sprinkled with a generous dose of comedy , this filmlet will touch you in many ways . The bustling scene of the coffeeshop captured its essence , and the wedding dinner scene will surely be familiar territory to those who have attended one before . My only gripe with it will be the tacky narrative , but the sight of food will set to satisfy .
A Nutshell Review : RocknRolla	Guy Ritchie is probably right at home with his own brand of English crime capers , which is full of machismo over the top action sequences , tough talking , black comedy , and an all round edgy feel to it , not to mention the frequent casting of Jason Statham , who has since moved on from the Smoking Barrels , Snatch and Revolver days . In fact , it's been a good 8 years since we last saw Ritchie's feature films on screen , since Revolver had a straight to DVD release here , and Ritchie's widely panned effort with Swept Away starring his wife Madonna being avoided with a ten foot pole . So with RocknRolla , Guy Ritchie can announce and signal his comeback to the much loved genre where he's probably a master of , except that this film still had much to be desired , albeit containing elements of his signature style . We go back to the usual crooked czar where Tom Wilkinson's Lenny Cole heads a small team of gangsters who fleece unsuspecting land / home buyers in real estate , until such time where he thought he had a big fish for the kill in the coming of a wealthy Russian mobster . But after the same pot of gold , knowingly or unwittingly getting themselves embroiled in the big scheme of things , include Thandie Newton's accountant Stella , Gerard Butler's small time hoodlum One-Two , and a rock star Jonny Quid ( Toby Kebbell ) , a druggie who fakes his own superstardom death . While you can't fault the good ol ' almost watertight linking of everyone to everyone else , the narrative did feel that it needed some nip and tuck as it does tend to indulge in itself a little by getting too meandering in its presentation , throwing up a chock full of supporting roles by Ludicrous or Jimi Mistry the corrupt Councillor . One example of such an indulgence happened to be one of the more entertaining action sequences involving some hard to put down Russian gangsters , who were much like robotic Terminators with Energizer fuel cells that keep going on and on , though it did serve its purpose with self-deprecating humour for a character to trumpet his own horn . And the characters here are a mixed bunch , most of whom were the stars in a relatively simple black versus black plot . The lead narrator Archie ( Mark Strong ) tends to stay out of the picture most of the time , seemingly comfortable to passing the baton to Butler who relatively has more star power , but Wilkinson single handedly steals the show with his gangster who made it big through the misfortune of others who fall for his cunningness . Thandie Newton as the seductress never really get much to do here except to pout and roll her eyes , despite touting to be the best in the business in creative accounting . You can count on Ritchie to conjure some really visually attractive scenes and sequences , coupled with some memorable dialogue . Though I must admit that RocknRolla here did seem a little bit homophobic , especially when there's a running joke that runs throughout the film involving One-Two and fellow peer Handsome Bob ( Tom Hardy ) that went on for a tad too long , although I must admit some of it were genuinely hilarious in its own right , especially when left to your own devices to imagine what transpired given the deliberate omission of crucial details stemming from character embarrassment . And running along the same idea of a gag in letting your imagination run wild , is the make up of a valuable lucky painting that you just don't get to see . All in all , RocknRolla still proved itself to be quite an entertaining feature , and for fans of Ritchie , the wait is finally over . Not his greatest work to date , but nothing too shabby either .
A Nutshell Review : The Ninjas	I suppose many of us would have loved the romanticism associated with ninjas , with their famed skills of invisibility , swordsmanship , cunning and a whole host of weaponry and gadgets that add to their element of surprise . If you'd think you know a lot of their modus operandi , then perhaps The Ninjas , aka Shinobi No Mono , would contribute to that wealth of knowledge , and at the same time dispel some of the myths and stories that add to the stature of these masked assassins . If you'd wonder what a ninja does when out of his mask , then the film would have painted a rather mundane picture of the practicing ninjas , who hone their skills in enclaves , and frankly look no more like your usual Samurais , except sans status , and honing their skills ala rebels in hiding at their fortified base , and being skilled assassins for hire to Samurais who need someone to do their dirty work for them ( yes , even back then you can outsource your dirty laundry ) , as they themselves are bounded by the honor code of bushido . The movie doesn't waste time in building up a proper background , but throws you thick into the action . With characters loosely adapted from history , you have Oda Nobunaga , a ruthless warlord on rampaging victories across Japan in an effort to unify the country . Needless to say such aggression doesn't sit well with the able bodied , and 2 clans of ninjas are pitted against each other to see who can carry out a successful mission to stop the warlord . The story centers upon Goemon ( Raizo Ichikawa ) , an up and coming , though ambitious and impatient ninja , who is recognized and granted a promotion ( to the back office , away from the battlefield , as an accountant ! ) but in a moment of lustful folly , becomes the pawn of his master Sandayu ( Yunosuke Ito ) , pledging his life to his master's bidding . So begins Goemon's mission , which includes a ruining of his reputation , and committing acts which defy even the ninja's code of conduct ( yes there is one ! ) . In fact , we learn and observe many rules and regulations of ninja-dom , what with the need to disfigure oneself prior to death , and how torture must be endured and death always an option . All these get interpreted through Goemon's ultimate shame in living with his guilt , up until he meets a prostitute called Maki ( Shiho Fujimura ) , who gives him new cause to live , setting the stage for the truth of his double-headed master to be revealed . Shinobi No Mono was credited as the first film to popularize the ninja series of films , and had relatively low key special effects , decided to root itself in more realistic elements , rather than have things like tunnelling through sand dunes , and blink and you miss puffing of smoke . Secret passages , booby traps , poison and darts still remain staple , but don't expect any fancy swordplay as targets get dispatched rather quickly . If you're looking for a climatic ending , then you'll likely be sorely disappointed , as everything goes into a big shebang , lacking in any mano-a-mano opportunities . That said , this film is still rather enjoyable for its shedding of light on these mysterious group who operate in the shadows , and it's not always they have to dress up in black for their operations . It'll look rather dated , but somewhat a refreshing change from current films in its presentation sans the easy way out using tons of computer aided imagery .
A Nutshell Review : For All Mankind	Yes , it's strangely surprising that the next DVD I would pop in the player would be NASA related as well . The previous was mission specific , looking back at the Apollo 13 mission , but this documentary by Al Reinert consists of many first hand account as well as rarely seen footage caught by various moon-bound astronauts over the series of successful Apollo missions . And it isn't really surprising that the astronauts all have a film camera with them when they blasted off into space . After all , who better than to record some never seen before visuals , either en route to the way up to outer space , or to the lucky few who got to land on the moon , the view from out there looking back on Earth . They become filmmakers in documenting their lives too living inside a cramped space craft , to bring to us some National Geographic moments of the lunar surface , and plenty of picturesque shots of our planet . Covering the viewpoints of multiple astronauts , most have confessed that it's easy to get distracted by the view from up there . You get to listen to their thought process , and plenty of unseen footage of the surface that while on one hand fascinating , on the other it may be a bit monotonous because frankly , there's nothing up there except miles and miles of rock and dust . You can tell the enthusiasm of all the astronauts as they frolic around in tumbles and falls , thrilled by the gravitational pull , with the nagging fear that should they spring a leak in that suit because of a sharp edge , it'll mean instant goodbyes . If you'd think it's all grim and serious there , then this documentary would change your mind .
A Nutshell Review : The Secret Heaven	A little girl dislikes and has no interest in her piano and her piano lessons , and devices different ways to try and skip classes or play her piano at home . But things don't go smoothly with a strict disciplinarian of a mother , and a hen-pecked father . Her only happier times are with her sister as they make pit stops to play when en route to their lessons . Desperate to end her suffering , she unwittingly gets ideas from her Dad , the film Romeo and Juliet , and starts questioning about Death . Will she do it , and join the various happy people in Heaven ? What most audiences will find enjoyable is the adorable little girl's antics , definitely the star of the show .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) One More Chance	While billed as " A Jack Neo Film " , the undisputed commercially successful local director actually shares the scriptwriting and directing duties and credits with other collaborators - Du Nan Xing and Michael Woo ( directing ) , and Boris Boo and Ho Hee Ann ( story ) . If I recall , this movie was made in conjunction with the Yellow Ribbon Project , which encourages the public and employers to provide a chance for rehabilitated ex-convicts . Watching this off the heels of Just Follow Law , and despite other collaborators on board , this movie undoubtedly embodies everything you can identify with in a Jack Neo film . The regular faces of Mark Lee , Marcus Chin and Henry Thia allows the film to reach out again to the heartlander fans of their successful television series Comedy Night , and it did have decent returns at the box office . You can't fault the story for having a contemporary clichéd plot for the three protagonists . For the film to reach out to the common masses , familiar stories which you hear from the grapevine , or from newspaper reports , are harvested for the back stories of the characters , the issues they face while inside prison , and the prejudice they encounter when they're released . Mark Lee's Youhuang was jailed for commercial fraud , leaving behind a pregnant fiancée played by Apple Hong ( who looked real photogenic at every camera angle ) for 7 years . Upon his release , his issue is a rival in love , as well as the connection with a daughter he hardly knows . Marcus Chin's Weiguang is a compulsive gambler , and together with wife Meilian ( Lina Ng ) , they face problems with loan sharks and bad debts ( albeit this subplot was already done to death in Jack Neo's earlier film , Money No Enough ) . Henry Thia plays a good for nothing serial housebreaker Hui , who has to fulfill his dying mother's last wishes . Naturally all 3 narratives will come together , but perhaps only Youhuang's story was something relatively refreshing from a Jack Neo movie angle ( i . e . not done before ) , as compared to the other 2 stories . There are a few liberties given to the movie , since it's out to support the government's initiative of accepting those with a criminal past . For example , the story assumes that most who go to the slammer are uncouth and dialect speaking ( although this is a " Chinese " movie , there are some weak attempts into portraying the multi-racial elements of society , having token prisoners from other races put into the shots of Changi Prison ) . It goes to show that sometimes Hokkien vulgarities are given the green light , or that dialects are spoken at great lengths , contradictory to the Speak Mandarin campaign objectives , which results in Cantonese movies being dubbed . Of course the more valid reason will be not everyone here speaks Mandarin in their everyday life , and when in Rome , do as the Romans do , otherwise the entire movie would have fallen flat should everyone be speaking in perfect Mandarin . The main draw of the movie is the first 20-30 minutes ( akin to Just Follow Law ) , where you get to take a look at the main crux of the story . Here , we get to glimpse the internals of our own Alcatraz - the fabled Changi Prison , and having the movie filmed on location , raises its profile . You get to see the cell , the amenities , and of course , the story had to weave in montages of what inmates do on a daily basis , from exercise to studies , and the rooms used for family visits . Comedy is still sprinkled in this relatively serious movie , and given the seasoned comedians , these are pulled off with ease . There are still ample time given to criticize certain policies of the authorities , like the jab on the casino issue , but again , nothing too critical ( still toting the safe line ) , regurgitating much coffee shop talk . The dreaded caning scene was stripped down to just the aftermath , and turned to comedy instead , which I thought if it was filmed and shown in its full gory , I mean glory , would make a somewhat good deterrence for would be lawbreakers . And what's a Jack Neo movie without explicit product placement ? A prominent sushi company , as well as a regular BBQ pork company were so obvious , as their shops were worked into the sets , as well as a jewellery company providing one " perfection " diamond ring . You might think it's easy for Jack to have worked with sponsors to have them featured in a movie , but in reel mimicking real , he too had difficulties convincing them to be featured in a movie like this . Expect song montages , and an ending so fantastical , it borders on the absurd to come out with a happy ending ( again akin to Just Follow Law ) , somehow I wish that one day we won't experience anymore cringe worthy , contrived finale , which highlights the inability to end off a movie in believable satisfactory fashion .
A Nutshell Review : The Legend of Zorro	Finally , after 7 years since the last Hollywood Zorro movie hit the big screen , director Martin Campbell is back with his original cast of Antonio Banderas in the title role , and Catherine Zeta Jones as his wife Elena de la Vega . Set 10 years after the last movie , The Legend of Zorro wastes no time in plunging the audience thick into trademarked action pieces that many associate with the Spanish Fox - the acrobatic lunges , flips , swordfights , whip action and horseback riding . It's all familiar territory with the romanticized Old California , now at a crossroads where the state is in decision to join the rest of America . Things have changed for the de la Vega family too , as they have a new addition to the family , a son named Joaquin , who takes on traits of his father , but not knowing his father's secret identity . Naturally , family takes the central theme in this movie . Why do vigilantes wear masks - simply to protect their loved ones as they enroll in the crusade for justice . This film explores the dilemma of the avenger as he struggles to be there for the general public in their hour of need , and the balance of spending enough quality time with his own family . Relationships aren't rosy with husband and wife , and it's no surprise , they bicker again on screen . And when this concealment and protection of identity is compromised , what could be exploited from it ? Plenty of action in this movie to keep Zorro fans happy , and it's a marked improvement from the predecessor too . Zorro moves with guile and swift agility that will raise your eyebrow at the style of his acrobats , befitting his name " the fox " . The use of the whip has increased , and so is the intensity of the swordfights . However , the plot might be a bit of a letdown . It's the usual James Bondish storyline of some Euro-knight baddie in some highly secret underground organization trying to achieve the total destruction of America . One forgot to remind him that he'll need a lot more smarter accomplices in order to fulfill his desire for world domination . With 4 writers credited for the story , it does seem convoluted somewhat to include too many scenes which clocked the movie slightly longer than 2 hours . Some comedy was injected , but those with Tornado seemed a bit contrived ( a horse that smokes and drinks ? Come on . . . ) The pacing too is somewhat erratic , dragging some scenes unnecessarily and introducing subplots that in my opinion , went against the motivation of characters . There's a stab at the high-handed tactics of a certain government agency , and it's like watching a precursor of spy-versus-spy games . The soundtrack seemed to rehash the love them from the earlier movie too , playing it each time Elenor comes on screen , and the camera still soft-focuses her a lot too . But what could have been given longer screen time is the on-screen banter between Banderas and Zeta Jones . That was what made the first film likable and popular , and while this movie had flashes and moments of it , we could have had more . One could have also expected the effects to be seamless given today's technology , and nothing new presented on screen , but while the end result was impressive , there are certain frames that were obviously blue-screened and superimposed . Despite its drawbacks , this is still a worthy Zorro movie , and with the signature shot of Zorro on Tornado hoisting its legs high in the sky in an all-ready posture ready to strike , with sword drawn , all can be forgiven .
A Nutshell Review : Horton Hears a Who !	I've got to make a mental note that movies that have trailers playing in the cinemas for the longest time , do not a boring movie make , even if the first half of the movie plays like the extended version of the trailer , telling us things we already know , spelling out the premise all over again . Jim Carrey and Steve Carell unite on the big screen again after their short pairing up in Bruce Almighty , although this time they're animated as animals / creatures from Dr Seuss ' fictional world . Jim Carrey voices Horton , an elephant who in moments where you least expect , spew lines of poetry as dialogue . We're introduced to his character from the onset , though his backstory isn't really fleshed out , except that there are those ( like the Kangaroo ) who hates all for what he stands for . And simply put , Horton exudes all qualities typical of what elephants are made out to be - excellent memory , frightened about the unknown , and trustworthiness . These qualities are put to the test when he chances upon a speck on a clover . That speck turns out to be home for an ecosystem populated by Whos , minute creatures who seem to live very mundane , repetitive lives in their very own little paradise . Things start to go awry , especially with severe environmental changes , and despite the Mayor of Whoville ( Carell ) warning of the great unknown out there , like all predictors of impending doom , get ridiculed by the population . So begins the friendship between HOrton , trying to protect the world of his new found friend by relocating the speck to safe haven , and the Mayor , who must warn his disbelieving population about more dangers to come . For a while it drags on , with childish banter between the two lead characters , and the plot by Horton haters to bring him down by destroying his toy of the moment , not acknowledging his mantra that a person's a person , no matter how small . They want proof , and they're not getting any , since the Whos are also laughing at the fact that there are bigger creatures out there , outside the realms of their known atmosphere . It's as if one's trying to convince a large group of atheist that there is a supreme being up there and he's up there watching our every move ( ok , so Horton doesn't actually get to see them , but you get my drift ) . But the struggling with existentialism , is what made Horton Hears a Who shine brightly , and made the ticket worthwhile . A pity we have to really wait out for it , but at least these tense moments came , better late than never , that really brought out enough drama and excitement that I never saw coming my way . Otherwise , the animation's pretty standard fare in 2D , and chock full of supporting characters ( voiced by Seth Rogen , Carol Burnett , Dan Fogler , Isla Fisher , Amy Poehler and Jaime Pressly et al ) just to ramp up the cute factor , without giving them much to do anyway , though I must admit the gorillas almost always crack me up ( you should see what they can do with their bananas ! ) Smart to debut this during the school holidays this week to catch hold of school going kids . Oh , and get yourself into the hall early as you'll get to see Ice Age's Scrat up to his antics to promote Ice Age 3 , due on in Summer 2009 ( yes , 2009 ! )
A Nutshell Review : Happily , Even After	Happily . Even After is a tale directed by Singapore born director Unsu Lee , a neat little sibling drama , with a surreal fairy tale inject into the narrative . It's pretty amazing I suppose for any Singaporean director to have had his hands at making a movie in the USofA , and one which stars Jason Behr , of Roswell the television series fame too . With their parents ' unfortunate demise , siblings Elizabeth ( Fay Masterson ) and Jake ( Behr ) are left to fend for themselves . Taking upon herself to look after her brother , she falls for an all too familiar role of being the naggy , overly concerned big sister role , a relatively successful career woman , with quite a pathetic love life . Jake , on the other hand , is a character who seemed to have everything going his way as a kid , until he decided to clam up and shut himself to the outside world - the quintessential under-achieving slacker , the disdained anti - social with a mission to bust his liver with alcohol . However , everything changes ( as always ) when Katie ( Marina Black ) enters their lives . Knowing Elizabeth through a roof top encounter , having Katie offer her services as a nanny - fairy-godmother of sorts , to look after Jake and get his life back on track , it seems like it's one of many films with similar plots , of having a girl teaching a guy how to live life . Katie and Jake don't hit it off from the start , given their bad encounter with each other at a laundromat at the start of the movie , but it falls into predictability as our guy falls in love with the girl , sending Jason Behr's groupie fans amongst the audience into ecstasy . Predictability though , is not on the menu , so some twists are expected towards the end . It might be contrived to some , in the vein that it had to go down the course it was chosen , to be different . But it is indeed this difference that makes this movie truly unique , and having it open ended , allows for various interpretations of what could be , or could have been . Set in San Francisco , the movie has superb music done by Kid Galahad , which adds an excellent layer accompanying the pleasing visuals . The cast , including those in supporting roles , did an adequate job in fleshing out their characters , and allows you to easily identify the struggles that each of them go through , to overcome doubt , gain confidence , and more importantly , to live life .
A Nutshell Review : Perfect Creature	Written and directed by Glenn Standring , Perfect Creature falls into one of those fantasy , alternate universe timelines where because of genetic engineering and the likes , humans now are living side by side with the more powerful vampires with whom have forged a truce , that is , to never feed on the blood of humans , but instead , get their dosage of plasma through religious rites of sorts . Which serves as an intriguing premises to begin with , except that it had so much going for it , that it failed to capitalize on the wealth of its potential , instead choosing to coast through the expected until a finale made up of standard fare , with too many plot elements than it could handle , with mistrust between the two species of homo sapiens , an influenza virus , and a murderous vampire hell bent on creating havoc by unleashing his own brand of justice to the world . With movies like Underworld and various other genre incarnations that dwell on super - beings , Perfect Creature at best was on par in terms of the visuals , where the filmmakers have created a stunningly looking dark city , which seemed like a cross between Victorian England , except for the vehicles such as zeppelins which crowd the sky . Special effects was rudimentary , and you can feel the lack of slickness in the movements of the vampires , not so much as they couldn't fly , but their essence of speed wasn't properly brought across , and looked quite clunky . The story , bared down to the basics , is about how human detective Lilly ( Saffron Burrows ) has to team up with a high ranking vampire / priest ( yes , you read that right ) called Brother Silus ( Dougray Scott , who walks really stiff here and nary breaks into a smile ) , despite her and her team's discrimination against the vampire race . And their common adversary Edgar ( Leo Gregory ) happens to be a researcher of sorts gone renegade , and with blood relations to Silus , puts a dampener on so called conflict of interest . As an action-fantasy piece , don't expect any award winning acting here , because what thrills are the set action pieces in claustrophobic spaces within dark and dank apartment blocks . However , unlike its contemporary peers , there aren't any fancy gadgets , weapons or moves to wow you , well , maybe perhaps the cool stunt gun that Silus carries which fires off projectile rounds to immobilize his kind . And of course something tells you it's not quite right when the mid-point action sequence trounces the finale which had a distinct lack of excitement . But on the whole , for its mood , settings , and imaginative spin on the vampire genre , Perfect Creature does deserve a watch .
A Nutshell Review : The Flying Scotsman	The Flying Scotsman is a formula sports biographical movie , based on the book written by a champion cyclist Graeme Obree . As with sports biopics like Cinderella Man and The World's Fastest Indian , Scotsman tells the story of the underdog's triumph against himself and his adversaries through innovation in technique , technology , and of course , perseverance sprinkled with grit and determination . But of course , like A Beautiful Mind , there are inner demons that have to be worked out , before assailing to the summit . Graeme Obree ( Jonny Lee Miller ) is a bike enthusiast who works as a courier and owns a bike shop . Life's pretty plain , until he inspires to break an aged old World Hour record for longest distanced pedalled on a bicycle . But record breaking is an expensive ambition , and he realizes that aerodynamics will play an important factor . What I liked about the movie is to witness his keen observation and experimentation at work , to design the perfect sports bike , and riding techniques which some of us would have observed on television in the 90s . Thus the movie begins charting the ups and downs of his career , starting with his built from scratch and from spare washing machine parts bike affectionately called The Old Faithful . It's something that man and machine , when united seamlessly , is able to go the distance . But of course , what I also liked is perhaps the stereotypical boardroom suits , of the powers that be , who are dead set in making life difficult for Obree , introducing absurd rules , regulations and terms in order to upset the spirit of innovation , and maintain their absolute control over the sport . There are some moments which seem to mar the movie , despite understanding that they have to be introduced to give our on screen character more than one dimension . Struggling with injustice from the past affected Obree's EQ , but a good support structure in his wife Anne ( Laura Fraser ) , manager Malky ( Billy Boyd ) and good adviser Douglas ( Brian Cox ) , it makes a constant reminder that no man is an island , and that with good people supporting and believing in you , that's one of life's greatest gifts . The theme track is excellent in itself , but unfortunately , none can replace the contemporary classic theme composed by Vangelis from Chariots of Fire . Recommended movie despite its formula , if you're in need for some perk up when you're feeling down and low about yourself .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Ice Age ( 2002 )	I've missed this animated movie when it was out in Singapore a few years back . Since the sequel is hitting our shores real soon , I thought I'd better get myself up to speed with the original movie , lest I miss out on some references used in the sequel . You see , must do homework mah ? It has been 4 years since this movie was released , but I am marveled at the level of animation detail that was already incorporated - the ice never looked as white or as menacing , and the scenes of water in this movie , could have been the real thing . It really is that good . Which is quite surprising , considering that Ice Age was only Fox Animation Studios ' attempt after their initial offering of Titan AE . The beginning of Ice Age comprised of that extra long trailer featuring Scrat ( the part squirrel part rat animal ) trying to bury its acorn into the ice . Yes , it's the same one , which lead directly to a scene which looked straight out of A Land Before Time . The prehistoric animals are making their way down south , but somehow , Manny the Mammoth decides to leave the herd , and head up north instead . He meets Sid the Sloth , and they begin an uneasy alliance - you know , the usual bored character meets witty-but-irritating character routine . At the same time , some sabre-tooth tigers have ambushed some early-humans ( they don't speak ) , and their prized target , a human baby , escapes . Diego gets appointed by the pack to hunt the baby down and deliver it , so that they can exact revenge . But alas the baby gets saved rather reluctantly by Manny and Sid , and Diego has to use its cunning to infiltrate the group , and complete its mission . It's a simple movie with mature themes , infused with madcap comedy . I especially enjoyed the crazy sequence with the dumb dodo birds - after watching this , you'd think that they deserve to be extinct ! But anyhow , central to the themes is that of sacrifice and friendship . It got played out really well , since you have a double agent amongst the group of unlikely friends . And it is precisely this that the sequel can be born . As with most animation flicks these days , look out for some spoofs , especially in the cave ( with the UFO ) , and pay close attention to the dialog - lots of gems to listen out for . It's an interesting caper , and the sequel , yes I'm awaiting . This Code 1 , two-discs special edition comes with features filled to the brim . The first disc contains an audio commentary , interactive games , both widescreen and fullscreen formats , and the usual audio selection and subtitles . The second discs comes with an animated short Scrat's Missing Adventure , an HBO behind the scenes special , a making-of documentary , 6 deleted scenes , 6 production featurettes , trailers , and a clip from Blue Sky Studio's Oscar winning film " Bunny " . Whew !
A Nutshell Review : Dreamer : Inspired by a True Story	The premise of this movie is so similar to 2003's Seabiscuit , you'd think you're watching yet another biography of a real horse in some extraordinary , inspiring film that might just make you want to head down to the nearest race course and observe a real race . But Dreamer ( or Sonador as the horse is named ) takes a slightly different angle in this tale about second chances and comebacks . If compared to Seabiscuit , yes , we have a horse with great potential faced with the troubles of breaking a leg during a competitive race . As with all race horses , this means instant death , as they have no future value , and are bred for the sole purpose of racing . We also have a superb trainer , Ben Crane , played by Kurt Russell , and the doctor ( Holmes Osborne ) , the written-off jockey ( Freddy Rodriguez ) , the stable-hand ( Luis Guzman ) , etc . But here's where the similarities end . Dreamer is a more personal film , with family friendly characters , like the daughter ( Dakota Fanning ) , the wife ( Elizabeth Shue ) , and the grandfather ( Kris Kristofferson ) . Nursing the horse back to health had actually brought the family closer together , and that in itself makes this film quite cliché in its many " been-there-done-that " before moments to touch . Dakota Fanning has held her own against " father-figure " heavyweights like Robert De Niro , Denzel Washington , and Tom Cruise , though many would have pointed out that she had rivaled Naomi Watts for the 2005 Scream Queen honors with her performance in War of the Worlds . Here , Fanning has returned to more credible acting , albeit in a safer role . Dreamer : Inspired by a True Story , is a heartwarming tale about believing in oneself , having dreams , believing that you can achieve , and take action to achieve those dreams . While watching the movie , I can't help but chuckle at the parallels in seeing how my team and I are sticking together , just like those characters , in wanting to see our dream of making a short film , and entering it into competitions ( in this case , the Breeder's Cup ) come to a reality . It's that kind of film , an inspiring one . It might be clichéd , the premise might be too good to be true , but hey , success might come to those who dare to dream , believe , and more importantly , do .
A Nutshell Review : Innocent Steps	Na Young-sae was once touted as the best dance trainer in Korea , and was in contention for another trophy during the national dance competition , until dirty underhand tactics by rivals ruined it all for him . Seeking a comeback , his manager and him hatched a plan to import a foreign talent from China , Jang Chae-rin , to partner with him and reclaim his spot at the top . Alas , Chae-rin turns out to be the inexperienced teenage sister of the real mccoy , and Young-sae goes into a frenzy as the championships is only 3 months away . Reluctantly , and realizing the lack of time , Young-sae has no choice but to make do with what he has , and put his training skills to the test in turning a rookie into a professional ballroom dancer . The storyline sounds familiar , like Dirty Dancing's , exploring the situational device of having a teacher and his protégé go through their lives together experiencing new found relationships through the language of dance . They start off awkwardly , and most of the time the plot focuses on the rigorous training in which Young-sae puts Chae-rin through . There is an unnecessary subplot though , of the marriage investigators who probe into the fake marriage between Young-sae and Chae-rin ( that's the rouse used to get her to Korea ) , just to add to some laughs . Dance has always been associated with passion , feelings and love . This movie doesn't stray from these themes , and the main leads heat up the screen with their sensual dance moves , albeit too little screen time . Just when you thought it's time for them to take on the championships and arch-rivals , the plot takes a twist , which I thought was probably an attempt to avoid being predictable . Ladies might want to prepare your hankies for the emotional scene towards the end , where Young-sae and Chae-rin declares their love for each other indirectly at the marriage bureau . Extremely touching that , especially when you think back on their attempts to fabricate a fictional story on their relationship , which has taken on for real . It is of course helpful that the two leads are eye candy . Park Keon-hyeong as Young-sae seemed to have the easier role of the mentor , snarling most of the time with a diva-ish , yet tender attitude towards his protégé . Mun Guen-yeong has the tougher role to flesh , transforming herself from simple naive girl into chic professional dancer , with a heart pining for Young-sae . The chemistry between the two is superb , and their dances together once they got their groove right , just magical . Which of course brings me to my main gripe - I want more ! But the attempt to make the story unconventional turned my request down , although the end credits featured a clip of them dancing , serving as some kind of compensation for the lack of dancing screen time . It's not the partner , but the partnership that mattered , said Young-sae . It rocked , and left me wanting more ! Some might find it " been-there-done-that " , but I recommend this for those who which to get jiggy with it on the dance floor . I found myself tapping to the soundtrack as we get whirled around the ballroom , and I'm sure ballroom dance lovers , or romantics at heart , will do the same too .
A Nutshell Review : Chicken Rice War	Actually , it's not a far fetched idea having 2 stalls coexisting in the same hawker center in close proximity , as there was one ( or maybe still there ) at my interchange , where both sides employ their own minders to try and pull business to their stalls , where any passers-by will inadvertently be asked if Chicken Rice is their meal of choice . Things are a little civil of course , compared to the full blown verbal barbs and physical violence , with plenty of colourful vulgarities thrown in for comedic effect here in the film . In fact , my favourite scenes involve the brawl between the Wongs and the Chans , as they trade insults in dialects , which degenerate from hilarious touting to vulgarities flying . So the stage is set with each side being on the warpath , and their offspring fated to fall in love with each other . Only that CheeK planned on his Shakespeare within a Shakespeare to be rather different . Yes it's a story about the star-crossed lovers Fenson Wong ( Pierre Png ) and Audrey Chan ( Lum May Yee ) , but also about them having to star in a faculty play in an experimental punk rock version of Romeo and Juliet , where Audrey is in the lead role , and her boyfriend Nick Carter ( Randall Tan ) being the stud who can't deliver his lines , only to be unceremoniously replaced by Fenson the stuttering nerd / geek , much to Audrey's disdain . CheeK had probably distilled some observations of the Singapore Girl here in crafting a Juliet that's materialistic from the onset . And that actually paints the heroine in a very bad light . In one fall swoop , we get to see that she prefers Leonardo DiCaprio-wannabes ( such as Orked's best friend in Malaysian movie Sepet , something about the Caucasians having it easy should they be in this part of the world ) , likes to party hard , play childish mind games , and best of all , is totally materialistic through and through . For the infatuated Romeo to start wooing his lady love , he has to break the bank and get her Tiffany diamonds first , before getting some attention showered in which he maximizes with his language skills courtesy of Shakespeare . Alas the falling in love bits in the film , which is supposed to be central to the story you might think , was nothing more than a very flimsy portion of the entire narrative . Sure you know that they will , but it was a little bit abrupt , and what's with that cheesy sounding song each time they eat each other's mouth ( yeah , that's how each kiss between Fenson and Audrey actually looked like ) . Not to discredit them both , but while they look the perfect couple on screen , they're very much upstaged by the other characters easily each time they come on screen , such as Catherine Sng's Wong Ku ( The Fat Woman ) , Gary Yuen's Vincent Chan the Chan patriarch , Kelvin Ng's Sydney Wong the brother of Fenson , and The Su Ching's Penelope Chan the highly sex-charged teenage sister of Audrey . Cheong Wui Seng and Irene Ong rounds up the family members of Wong Terr and Wendy Chan , spouses of Wong Ku and Vincent respectively . So while this is actually not much of a love story , there's still a lot going on in the film that kept it interesting at almost every turn in large part thanks to the supporting characters pulling their weight in delivering the crazy scenes crafted by CheeK . Like most early Singapore comedies , the authorities are almost always not left spared in being lampooned to look stupid and to speak improperly . Some other unavoidable clichés are how homo-erotic undertones are not too subtly presented , and some rather convenient plot development involving sidekick wannabes . The somewhat childish antics between the feuding families worked wonders in delivering the laughs , as do the translations that fly on screen to translate local colloquialism from vulgarities to meanings of Chinese horoscope which describe succinctly the characters they represent . There were a number of moments where the 4th barrier was broken in part due to the semi - documentary / news fashion that Chicken Rice War adopted , no doubt allowing the Muppets - like old men in Muthiah ( Mohan Sachden ) and Ahmad ( Alias Kadir ) to muscle in with their commentary . But the real star of the show I feel , is the hilarious hamming it up by Jonathan Lim as the sleazy go-go dancing , chicken supplier Hugo A Go Goh , in a role that has to be seen to be believed . If I could but name one character in the spate of Singapore movies that personifies all that is zany , then this character is it , besting even all those created in Talking Cock the Movie . Watching this now , I felt it was probably a little ahead for its time , but managed to pull it off given some creativity in production . You could tell when innovation was used in telling a story with little money , with costumes and off-focused shots being employed to mask details . The humour here would set the stage for many relatively newer local films today to employ , and so is the predominant use of dialects too ( Cantonese ) that would be the staple in many local films that make a dent in the box office , as are some cunning social observations fused into the narrative like how wealthy hawker centre operators can be , with a Mercedes being their vehicle of choice . Without a doubt , Chicken Rice War comes recommended , not that it's a perfect film , but it's one that is unfortunately seldom seen , and deserves a lot more credit than the initial flak that it received . For starters , it has shown that we've come a long way , and in some ways ( to the detriment of the current state of affairs ) , this still comes through as a more entertaining production than some of those produced today .
A Nutshell Review : Tristan + Isolde	As touted , before Romeo and Juliet of Verona , there was Tristan and Isolde of England-Ireland . Director Kevin Reynolds ' projects have included before , re-tellings of folk legends , like his Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves and the Count of MOnte Cristo . And as with all Hollywood-ized retelling , there's always the bastardization of the storyline , whether you like it or not . Then again , them being legends , it will depend on who's telling the story . So if you'd like a different take on the series of events in this love story , you might want to search the web . Set during the time when the Romans withdrew from England , and when Ireland was ravaging the English because of the power vacuum , we see a young Tristan ( Thomas Sangster , the same kid from Nanny McPhee ) owing a life debt to Lord Marke ( Rufus Sewell ) , who saved Tristan from impending death at a sacrifice of his right hand . Orphaned , Tristan serves Lord Marke dutifully , and becomes more favoured than Marke's nephew Melot ( Henry Cavill ) , with his fighting skills and fierce loyalty . In one of their revenge missions , Tristan ( now James Franco ) secures victory at the expense of being poisoned , and thought to have died . As Fate would have it , his body in a flaming boat survives the vast seas to get himself onto the beachhead of Ireland ( which I thought was a bloody ridiculous plot loophole , oh well ) , where he's found by Isolde ( Sophia Myles ) and her maid . Nursing him back to health and at the same time giving her ahem honour to Tristan ( I believe also that if Tristan was some burly soul , this would not happen . Very shallow , I know ) , it doesn't take a genius to realize that owing 2 life-debts with only 1 life to live , is a problem which will manifest itself later . So when Tristan later discovers he won a competition on behalf of Lord Marke , and the prize being Isolde's hand , our lovers are stuck in a rut , despite having opportunities earlier to leave their respective kingdoms and live a life of their own . For Tristan , he's torn between duty and love . Like I said , two different life-debts to repay , how do you choose ? He chose to be the lover on the side , for their nightly secret trysts in darkened fields . You'll see shades of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet here , with our star crossed lovers , Juliet's Nurse , the feuding families , deaths of Tybalt and Mercutio , and of course , the inevitable ending . HOwever , Romeo and Juliet were married , as opposed to the adulterous couple of Tristan + Isolde , which seemed more like Troy , in having Isolde as a Helen-like character sowing the seeds to the downfall of the fragile kingdom alliance . Fans of James Franco must have been swooning in their seats as they get to see their idol undressed and getting it on ( yes , I swear in today's screening , everyone heard a girl gasping for air ) . Franco did quite a spectacular job brooding , with his love lorn looks , and plenty of angst stemmed from Tristan's losing his parents at an early age . Sophia Myles was pleasing to the eyes , but I thought she looked a bit pudgy - people in the past must have loved their females with plenty love handles , otherwise it must be the unfashionable layers of clothes . It's a pretty decent love story with some nifty action sequences thrown in , though the contest for Isolde's hand looked like it took place in a poor man's version of Gladiator , and the final battle felt like a cheaper ripoff of The Two Towers ' assault of Helm's Deep . And not to forget , there's also enough of the usual medieval-politics ( betrayals , power struggles , corruption , etc ) to provide enough buoy to keep the movie afloat . Strictly for die hard fans of love stories set in the medieval past , for those who have never heard this story and would make do with a Hollywood version , or for groupies of James Franco . May I hear a squeal now please ?
A Nutshell Review : Empire Records Remix ! Special Fan Edition ( 1995 )	This quirky take with memorable characters take place in a span of 24 hours in a record store known as Empire Records ( Tower Records anyone ? ) It highlights a day in the life of the store employees , made up of teeny boppers like proverb spewing Lucas ( Rory Cochrane ) , suicidal rebel Jane ( Debi Mazar ) , slutty Gina ( Renee Zellweger ) , smarty pants Corey ( Liv Tyler ) , amongst others . The story starts off with Lucas taking nine thousand dollars from the cashier at night before he closes the store , and loses it all in a hilarious sequence at Atlantic City . Joe , the co-owner , learns about this , and the recovery of this amount of money forms the running theme in this movie . Thrown into the plot is an equally hilarious character Rex Manning , a has-been singer who's due at the store for an autograph session with his fans . You'll definitely dig one of his cheesy music videos . Corey has a crush on Rex , and tries to seduce him , but falls flat in embarrassment . Of course she's shocked when good friend Gina manages to pull the seduction off , and me-ow , a catfight ensues . As if the day isn't bogged down with too much activities in serving customers and spinning good music in the store , the employees learn that their beloved Empire Records will be absorbed by Music Town , a larger competitor . Therefore it's also a race against time to preserve the identity of their store . But it's a feel good movie , with feel good songs sprinkled with the occasional metal , so the ending is somewhat predictable with all threads and sub plots merging into one grand finale . Needless to mention , my primary objective is actually to watch Liv and Renee in one of their earlier movies : - )
A Nutshell Review : Cassandra's Dream	Woody Allen's final movie in his loose London Trilogy , with Match Point and Scoop preceding it , but without Scarlett Johansson's participation . Instead we get great chemistry between Ewan McGregor and Colin Farrell who play two brothers caught up in a moral tale that unfolds in Greek tragedy and operatic n proportions . The draw of the movie is no doubt the main leads . Ewan McGregor stars as Ian , who works in his father's restaurant but dreams of participating in some real estate opportunities . Only catch is he has no funds to make any form of investment . However he has this showy streak , and often borrows from his brother Terry ( Colin Farrell ) , the fast cars from the latter's workshop , or money when Terry makes some extra income from gambling , which is his major vice in life . We follow the story of the brothers for a bit , with Ian falling for small time theatre actress Angela Stark ( Hayley Atwell ) , who's quite high maintenance , while brother Terry has his winning streak at the tables being abruptly ended , and turns out to be owing tens of thousands to illegal creditors . Both naturally run into financial difficulty , but then their family has a benefactor , a rich uncle ( played by Tom Wilkinson ) who swears by family and blood , and offers to bail them out , just like before , and just like how he had helped their family with everything . Of course there's no such thing as a free lunch , and this time round there is a catch , as the brothers , in order to obtain their money , have to help their uncle in dispatching one of his business rivals . So begins the dilemma of committing the perfect crime , and the moral tussle between the brothers , one whom sees it as an obligation to repay their uncle for what he has done for them , and going to do of course , while the other just finds it wrong , and has to constantly battle the guilty conscious . While they look like unlikely brothers , Farrell and McGregor play off each other rather well , in particular , Farrell . We seldom see him in a role that's not the alpha male type , and the last I know of watching him look scared , on the edge , and depressed , was in the movie Phone Booth . Most of the time , his on screen persona always is very cock sure of himself , but not here , and allows for some excellent results . Other than that , the movie just chugs along until the finale , and doesn't offer any intriguing twists or tickle your brains any further once the dilemma is over and the decision to head down the slippery slope chosen . A decent movie for its star power , but definitely not one of Allen's best , even amongst the London Trilogy .
A Nutshell Review : 21	While Las Vegas is Sin City personified , having been there in person actually stripped away much of the glitz and glamour that comes courtesy of various movies and television series . Maybe because I'm not a high roller ( or even a simple punter to begin with ) that I don't get to enjoy the sexiness that comes with attention lavished at their well-known , well-paying customers . But in any case , the mathematics of it is that the house always win , and it is not a zero sum game , always in favour of the house . A bus driver in Vagas once told me that it's simple logic - look at the hotel above the casino . The larger it is , the higher the overheads , and guess where their revenue is coming from ? You guessed it . Based on a true story about a group of MIT students who utilized their smarts from what the textbook never taught them , you can trust Hollywood to sex it all up , especially with a professor in the mould of Kevin Spacey , and teammates who look like they jumped right out of glamour magazines . Being naturally smart and the cream of the crop , they get seduced by Spacey's Professor Micky Rosa , who rationalizes that they aren't cheating , but beating the system on their own numbers game through card counting . That means back to basics probability and statistics , together with some tools of the trade such as disguises , fake IDs and a whole elaborate rouse of communication using secret words and sign language . And here's the flaw of the movie , perhaps to dumb it down for an audience because it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that signs and codewords should change each time you hit a different casino so that you won't be caught repeating the same trick over and over again to the eyes in the skies , which provided a separate sub plot dealing with the threat of security personnel being outsourced and downsized by technology , and therein making old school folks like Laurence Fishburne's Cole Williams obsolete . Jim Sturgess is slowly getting his profile raised , last seen in these parts with Across the Universe . Here , his Ben Campbell is the A student who's just like every other A student trying their best to get to Harvard Medical School , and that sole scholarship up for grabs will be awarded to just one fella with the most impressive resume . Knowing that his chance is slim , he has to figure out how to cough up US$300K just to get himself into his dream institution , so as the tale would have it , that rationale and figure required became his excuse to take up gambling as a means to his end . Joined by fellow students Jill ( Kate Bosworth ) , Choi ( Aaron Yoo ) , Kianna ( Liza Lapira ) and Jimmy ( Jacob Pitts ) under Prof Mickey's tutelage , they hone their mathematical and social engineering skills in an expected montage , before hitting the gaming floors of Vegas to rake in the dough . And in between they will find time for romance , and constantly battle the urge of easy money , emotions running high , and all the trappings from the lifestyles of the rich . However , don't expect a lot from the supporting characters , as Kate just got to preen around looking like a pretty vase , while the token Asians get caricature roles , like a kleptomaniac . While Spacey is his usual chilling self and Sturgess managed the pretty boy charismatic presence well , 21 still found it necessary to explain everything , from detailing every bit of plot development including laying out all necessary twists and turns out on the table neatly , and how the mathematical rouse actually worked . However , don't expect to pick up a tip or two from the movie , because it actually requires a step one for you to be a mathematical genius for mental gymnastics to be performed at the top of your head . Otherwise , you can just forget it , and just pick up a lottery ticket and hope for the best . But what I enjoyed from the movie , is all the wink-winks with regards to the corruption that permeates through the education system , be it getting grades from your tutors , or admissions requiring exorbitant amounts of cash . Granted that the tuition fees are not cheap because of rising salaries and cost of maintaining the school , sometimes these can be contributed in nice ways which are quite above the board , in cases of having to scratch your back and having you scratch mine back . Still , 21 made for an enjoyable heist / gambling type of movie , sans those comedic ones which HK used to put out continuously at one point in time . It has a decent , Hollywood-hyped up story to tell , with the usual message that crime does not pay , and to use your smarts wisely in the right direction .
A Nutshell Review : In My Father's Den	Once in a while , Cathay @ Orchard screens their exclusive showcase selection of films which are not part of your mainstream Hollywood offering . In My Father's Den is one such film , and it is not often that I dive head on into a film without knowing at least a bit of the background or production details . This film is an NZ-UK production , and it sure is set in NZ alright when I saw the " Pump " brand of bottled water in one of the scenes . Can't get anymore authentic than that ! However , I'm in two minds as to how to rate this film . The narrative is painfully slow ( butt-numbing 2hrs 10 mins ) , but necessary to allow you time to think through what is going on , and the revelation of the ending , shocking yet somewhat expected . Paul Prior is a renowned war photo-journalist who's back in NZ to attend his father's funeral . Although he missed it , being back home gave him the opportunity to touch base with his estranged brother and his wife ( Lord of the Rings fan will recognize Miranda Otto here ) , his nephew , and hook back up with his ex-flame who's now married to somebody else . During this time , he hooks up with one of his students , 16 year old Celia , whose outlook in life , and passion for writing , brought back memories of himself , as well as memories of his ex-flame Jackie . However , an old photograph triggers suspicion that Celia might be the child Jackie bore him , before he literally walked out on his family , and Jackie . Meanwhile , you get a feeling that Celia is beginning to develop feelings for Paul , which all the more should sound alarm bells . But things turn for the worse when Celia goes missing , and Paul becomes the prime suspect for her disappearance . It is during the portion of the film that time is juxtaposed , which might make it a little confusing or irate the viewer . There are many characters in this film , and your mind will race as to sieve out the red herrings , and decide who's involved , and who's not . The " den " in the title refers to a shed that Paul's father has , which is stashed with good books , and good vinyl music discs . Quite a number of good songs are played throughout , which makes the soundtrack appealing . Many pivotal events take place in this shed , being a place of refuge for Paul , to being a key element of suspense and shock to the audience when the twist is revealed . The multi-faceted relationships between the characters form the theme of this film , and the cast put up excellent performances in bringing their roles to life . The ending , when revealed and when you think through it in its proper chronological order , is fulfilling , yet laced with a heavy dose of sadness . So if you're in for some classic story-telling , from a plot that really takes its time to unravel , then this is recommended for you . If you'd prefer to get on with action , then you should stick to the blockbuster summer offerings .
A Nutshell Review : Quinceanera	In local culture , it's a big deal when you hit 21 years of age . Being legally allowed to watch R21 movies is just but a blip , but what I suppose the usual celebrations will include some hard core partying . It marks a coming of age , of a transition to young adulthood . In Latin American culture , Quinceañera refers to the young girl's reaching of age 15 , celebrating maturity , with the fusion of food , dance , religion , and of course partying with family and friends . And from what the movie portrayed , it's indeed a very big deal , with beautiful gowns , elaborate customs and plenty of trinkets of gifts . The movie however , is not about the custom per se , but about young Magdalena ( Emily Rios ) , who's finding it tough to try and assert celebrating her 15th birthday the way she wants to . It's your usual rage against the system from a teenage perspective , especially from strict upbringing by her minister father . The huge clash comes when she can't control her ranging hormones , and in a huff goes off to be with her great grandfather Tomas ( Chalo Gonzalez ) . There's a separate storyline running parallel though , and that is of her cousin Carlos ( Jesse Garcia ) , who's also putting up at Tomas ' abode . With a tough exterior - tattoos , attitude and all , he finds himself attracted to two gay neighbours as they share their little trysts in secret , and you'll be kept guessing for a while just which way Carlos swings . It's a clash of cultures - conservatism , liberalism , and the changing of attitudes . But not to worry that this movie is heavy . Surprisingly , it's rather poignant , yet has this sense of fluff and light-heartedness thrown in at various points to lighten up the mood . And it manages to pack a punch despite its compact 90 minutes . The leads of Emily Rios and Jesse Garcia help too , in making their characters believable , and not too contrived . A movie like this introduces us to different cultures , but as we learn , the lessons of life are truly universal . Quinceañera is currently showing at GV VivoCity's Cinema Europa theatre exclusively .
A Nutshell Review : My Blueberry Nights	My Blueberry Nights is made up of 3 distinct stories put together by having a character , Norah Jones ' Elizabeth , journey through them all . Somehow , the strength is in its parts and not as a whole , and possibly references to Wong's earlier works were put in to mask the weak storyline . I have to give credit when it's due , and I thought the shorts go from strength to strength , bookended by Elizabeth's encounter with Law's Jeremy . It began with Elizabeth reeling from a bad case of having her boyfriend cheat on her , and in the ensuing break up , finds herself a regular at a diner operated by Jeremy . The first part might serve to be confusing as it transcends time , much like the need for taking visual cues from Maggie Cheung's cheongsam in ITMFL , and before you know it , a relatively intimate encounter makes Elizabeth journey off in a road trip . Norah Jones adds a certain vulnerability to her Elizabeth , and I admire her character for taking time off to find herself and just to be sure , instead of plunging head long to another potential relationship ( c'mon , it's Jude Law , you know ? ) . And the part where she worked 2 jobs as a distraction so that her mind had less time to wander and wonder , is something I can totally agree with . To that , her character I do like and can identify , but the second short , while I thought narratively was OK , just had to have her interact with Strathairn's cop character Arnie , who himself is suffering from the pain of separation from his wife played by Rachel Weisz . Her Sue Lynne just had to ring a very close bell to Su ( e ) Li ( n ) Zhen , in namesake and character wise , but how the short transpired and wrapped up , with a mention of love being stifling , earned my respect for it . But at this point , you'll probably be looking at your watch , wondering just how long more the flashbacks to Wong's earlier movies will take . However , the coup de grace was Natalie Portman's Leslie , a card shark with trust issues . And it's a refreshing departure from boy-girl relationships , by having parental love put into play here . Of all the characters , I like her carefree , smooth / trash-talking one the best , and with her character keeping her cards close to her chest , I thought the confession to Elizabeth somewhat takes the cake too . The cast all did a great job in fleshing out the WKW characters , but none I felt could touch the emotional richness that the Asian stars in wKW movies manage to bring out . As I mentioned earlier , this could be in a big part because of language . I would like though to commend on Jones . Not an actress by profession , she had done pretty well and Blueberry Nights , while she journeys with the characters through life and love issues , turns out to be more of an exercise for her in learning from the various thespians in the movie . Her Elizabeth can be cruel and heartless though , by leaving in a huff , and keeping in touch through one way channels in the writing of postcards , without way of a return address . While the movie might be running on an emotional tank testing the limits as the needle approaches E , I just love that million-takes lip lock between Law and JOnes , and I thought that pretty much was worth the price of a ticket , really . My Blueberry Nights is still delectable , except that when compared to the greatness of WKW's filmography , this seemed like pandering himself to Western audiences ( there's no need to actually ! ) by ( re ) introducing them to his works done thus far , and in doing so , becomes a blip in the radar . With due respect to WKW , My Blueberry Nights should be treated like the Blueberry pie in the movie - made just in case , but most likely headed for the bin , unless you have a newbie come over , and you can find reason to serve it as an introduction to other soulful WKW epics .
A Nutshell Review : P . S .	At first glance the premise of the movie seemed a little like Nicole Kidman's Birth , where someone who's already dead gets reincarnated into a boy who seemed to know all her / their dirty little secrets . Anyway that was my first thought when I heard about the plot outline for P . S . , but that said , this story couldn't be anywhere near Birth . It's a story about second chances , and how you would choose to seize this chance to make up for what you didn't do the first time around . On a more personal note , it reminded me of what I did once , doing something which I didn't do initially , but here opportunity was presented with someone else , not as a substitute though , but it served as a catalyst to not allow things to not happen , but to take that leap of faith and give it a shot . Didn't turn out the way I wanted , but I guess I should be satisfied that I tried . Louise Harrington ( Laura Linney ) is head of admissions for an art faculty , and in an admission letter , noticed someone who shared a similar name as a deceased old flame . Breaking protocol , she arranges for him to meet , and soon enough , more protocol gets broken as she initiates a sexual relationship with F . Scott Feinstadt ( Topher Grace ) . Which of course should set tongues wagging given the power of her status , about keeping persona and business separate , about that lack of professionalism and danger of mixing business with pleasure . But there are no lack of stories about a younger man falling for an older woman , and earlier this year , we've seen Uma Thuman in Prime in the same boat as well . Here though there is a distinct lack of humour and frills in storytelling , as the dry delivery befits the theme and character of Louise as she constantly , and perhaps unconsciously , pities herself and warrants the same pity from others . And it is the breaking out of this mould and mindset that keeps the narrative together in an exploration of how , despite Louise learning about how her marriage to her ex husband , Peter Harrington ( Gabriel Byrne ) broke down . Making matters worse is her best friend Missy's ( Marcia Gay Harden ) meddling into her personal business , with a revelation making you wonder why she hasn't turned into a fiend instead . I've actually watched this movie not because of Laura Linney , even though she carries this movie on her shoulders , and that her Louise character is the central figure where things revolve , and characters interact around . Rather , it's more for Topher Grace , whose performance I enjoyed in In Good Company ( his character there I could relate to ) , and keeping in mind that he did this movie first . Next up would probably be his biggest commercial challenge yet , as he takes on the role of Eddie Brock / Venom in Spiderman 3 . P . S . is actually a postscript , and here , the characters are afforded that little extra to add on to their past history , to be accorded that moment in the present , to make amends and salvage a past they are ashamed of . The pacing might be trying for some , but it still makes for satisfying viewing if you're in the same boat looking for your own P . S . .
A Nutshell Review : You are My Sunshine	Touted as the biggest love story in Korea in 2005 , it is no surprise why the hype . Based / Inspired by a true story ( there had been a handful of such movies in the recent weeks ) , You are My Sunshine is your typical melodramatic romance , with leads so cute and pretty , you can't help but be captivated as you embark on their journey of love . It brings to mind a frequently asked question , whether it is better to love , or be loved . Seok-joong ( Hwang Jeong-min ) is a affable , simple minded hillbilly farmer , who dreams of getting married to the woman of his dreams , and settling down in a cattle ranch . Luckless in love , he contemplates going abroad to look for a Filipino wife , just as one of his buddies did . But anyhow soon after , he meets Eun-ha ( Jeon Do-yeon ) , a " coffee " girl who also moonlights as a karaoke hostess , and falls head over heels with her . Eun-ha is a complex woman with a shady past , but although we were not told exactly what , from Do-yeon's portrayal , it doesn't take a genius to warrant an accurate guess . She's extremely guarded and frosty , having lost hope in men , but eventually gets touched by Seok-joong's sincerity . Who says your average joe couldn't snag that hot babe , if he tries doggedly hard , and is thick skinned about it ? And thick skinned he sure is , as he forges ahead in marriage despite objections from his aged mother . The movie then moves onto a different plane , looking at societal prejudices against people of certain trades , as well as misinformation about the disease AIDS . Eun-ha's past catches up with her ( shades of Banderas-Jolie's Original Sin here ) , and Seok-joong learns of her being inflicted with the disease . Eun-ha disappears , and the village folk gets flustered in having to undergo HIV testing , putting the blame of the introduction of the disease on Seok-joong . It's always difficult when you want to shake off the past , but yet get haunted by its ghost . You're seeking a new and ideal life , and it's always blissful to be with a loved one . You know the romance bit pauses and the melodrama sets in after the introduction of the ex-boyfriend , and the pacing of the movie suffered with the discovery of the illness thereafter . I was waiting for scenes which will turn on the tear ducts . There were ample potential ones like the uneventful searches , the longing , the loss , but they were all building up the emotions to that one scene near the end , where you really feel the love lost , of being so close yet so far , the longing feeling to hold your loved one in your arms , to embrace them in warmth , to keep them safe from harm and to shower them with your love . Damn power , and really heart-wrenching , although it sort of looked comedic at the start . As the alternative to another Korean romance Daisy , this one tended to be a little more intimate mature , and being less flashy . If you're up for some good old fashioned weepy , then You are My Sunshine is your choice between the two .
A Nutshell Review : If You Love Me Follow Me	We probably have the wildest of dreams during our youths , where the skies the limit and enthusiasm knows no bounds . Full of boundless energy and a daring to try out the unknown , a society like ours gets us all pragmatic and in living up to expectations of the elders , where success equates to getting a well paid job which comes from a set of good academic papers to show for . If we've achieved all those and gone through a soulless period , what happens if we get seduced again with Maslow's hierarchy of needs , and seek self-actualization by revisiting those youthful dreams again ? For Max ( Mathieu Demy ) , he becomes the head of a hospital at the age of 33 , a feat he gets congratulated for by friends and family in the opening of the movie , with his parents beaming with pride . But we soon find out that he's unhappy , despite having a job many would kill for , and a beautiful wife Praline ( Julie Depardieu ) at his side . He's burnt out , and no longer finds saving lives a joy , but a chore , down to a point where he flares up at an uncooperative patient . In a drinking spree , he notices a bar singer Chine ( Eleonore Pourriat ) and watching her do her gig , it revived some memories of a rock band he used to front . Getting all excited , he recruits Chine into his band , and calls up ex band members in Felipe the drummer ( Fabio Zenoni ) and Apache the bassist ( Warren Zavatta ) and sets up frequent jamming sessions at the cellar of his long time friend Anna ( Romane Bohringer ) who actually after all these years , is still holding a torch for him . Co-written and directed by Benoit Cohen , this film tried to examine the price of sacrifice , and actually touches on a real subject that I believe many working adults would have asked themselves at one point or another - what am I doing here , and what's my purpose in life ? Being in a rat race , it's relatively easy to recognize our fantasy of walking away from a regular job in pursuit of a lifelong dream , but how many of us actually have the courage to step away from our comfort zone , and battle it out in a new environment of opportunity ? And that of support too , which is important , as many a times we have those who depend on us to bring home the dough , and that the pursuit of dreams could put those arrangements into disarray . In Max's case , he engages his colleague Jojo ( Mathias Miekuz ) to cover for him and hide his intent from his wife , because he understands how it would upset her , though there's an entire backstory that works on this aspect as well . Besides the marital strength between Max and Praline being tested , there were other minor developments amongst the other supporting characters that come into play , especially during the retreat all of them had , with new relationships being forged and revealed , some for the better , others just being a spanner thrown in to mix things up a little . But it is still that between Max and Praline that questioned again , the reality of a marriage , whether you really know what you're in for , or are you hooked onto the illusion of someone who doesn't exist , or worse , being together only because of convenience , or gratitude . Despite being labelled a comedy , this movie is anything but that with some real nagging issues constantly provoking your mind . There were some light comedy though , but some which I felt were somewhat lost in translation . The music on the other hand , was a joy to sit through and listen to , and just right up my alley with its rocking , edgy sound .
A Nutshell Review : Green Street Hooligans	You've seen them on television , and you've read about them in the news . Europe is particularly aware of folks who travel for football games amongst neighboring countries , only to have them create trouble or duke it out with the locals or one another , if the results don't go their way . While 2005 had a look at professional Premiership football with the movie Goal ! , it's time the cameras took a look too at the supporters of the game . Not just any plain old armchair supporters , but really passionate ones , who live , breathe and eat football , and bond together to form Firms ( i . e . gangs ) . Similar to mafias , triads , what-have-yous , Firms thrive on reputation . The bigger the stunt , or the fight , the bigger the reputation gets spread . And it's usually ( as explained in the movie , though of course , in better light for West Ham United ) the better teams having weaker Firms . I'd like that acknowledgment that Arsenal is the better footballing team , but having a terribly weak Firm , while Spurs are poor in both haha ! We also learn what irks the Firms most , besides rival Firms . Elijah Wood plays Matt Buckner , a Harvard journalism dropout for a misdemeanor he did not commit . He flies to London to meet up with his sister , and gets introduced to his brother-in-law's brother ( duh ) Pete Dunham . Pete's the head honcho of the Green Street Elite ( GSE ) , the Firm of West Ham United , and I'd like the beginning of their budding relationship where Pete educates Matt on aspects of football ( not soccer , mind you ) . The pot-shots at UK-US relations are hilarious , as we see Matt get introduced to the other core members of GSE . Of course him being a Yank doesn't endear him to GSE , but they're willing to overlook the point and give the rookie a chance to prove himself since he's brought in by Pete . We only have one football match to watch ( ala Goal ! ) , as the rest of the movie focuses on Matt's transformation from wide-eyed newbie , to mean fighting machine . Elijah Wood didn't have much of a difficult job to do , as all he did was to continuously wear that scowl on his face for the second half of the movie . And it actually degenerates into some sort of UK-football version of Fight Club , where members of rival Firms whack the living daylights out of one another to prove their point . Perhaps co-star Charlie Hunnam did a better job as Pete , ringing home his performance as a leader , and a surrogate big brother . The plot , to me , was engaging material , though it came with some predictable subplots like betrayals . It tries to make the point that violence begets violence , but doesn't offer any suggestions otherwise , because fanaticism in football is real and continuing issue that might seem to mar the sport . Some might deem this movie as romanticizing hooliganism , but it tried to balance those attempts by having a major character ( pardon the pun ) rationalize and play the devil's advocate . I'm not sure why we had to rename this movie locally to " Football Hooligans " . I know Green Street Hooligans might make some go Huh ? But this is the internet age , where information is at the tip of your fingers , and all you have to do , is just to google it , or go visit IMDb . com ( not as if I'm promoting it , but yeah , common sense ) . It's one thing having movies renamed worldwide ( like Danny the Dog aka Unleashed ) , and another having a fiasco like " The Spy Who Shioked Me " . It's an interesting movie , with grand themes about not letting your buddies down , and for standing firm in what you believe in . Though the premise is controversial ( brutal gang fights and all ) , it did seem like you're watching an updated , Caucasian remake of movies like A Better Tomorrow and Prison On Fire . Just remember to keep whatever inert tempers in check after leaving the theater . CLAP CLAP CLAP UNITED ! !
A Nutshell Review : Roadside Romeo	I guess the number of dogs in Disney's repertoire isn't enough , and this year they're looking to grow the kernel which houses the likes of the 101 Dalmations , Goofy , Pluto , Lady and the Tramp with Bolt , Beverly Hills Chihuahua and of course , Roadside Romeo and his pooch friends hailing from India . Touted as the first Indian full length CG-animated film , the end credits reveal just how much Disney's participation here likely amounted to , being primarily consultants to what was mostly work done by Tata Exlsi Visual Computing Lab . And it's a pretty fine job those guys there are doing , because if you were to strip away the Hindi language and end credit roll so as not to cue in on production details , you're more than likely to think that this was made by Disney themselves . So it's absolutely not a bad effort at all , for a first film . Animation aside , this is as Bollywood a movie as it can get , with distinct song and dance sequences rooted in Bollywood spirit . Storywise , it's kept really simple with one main plot running and no sub plots trying to complicate matters . The characters too seem to leap out of a typical Bollywood film with over the top villains and their slimy incompetent henchmen , err , dogs , coupled with the propensity to switch to English with constant plurality and grammatic errors in efforts to impress everyone . Saif Ali Khan voices the titular character of Romeo , once a dog living the life of luxury , before given the boot onto the streets when his owners take off to settle overseas . Left to fend for himself , he relies on his street smarts , suave ways , quick wit and smooth talking to garner himself a posse of abandoned dogs and one cat , putting into use his fashionable skills with the scissors to open a salon for the neighbourhood hounds . Adversary comes in the form of a Don Corleone Godfather type bulldog named Charlie Anna ( Javed Jaffrey ) , who has three " angels " for protection ( and to fuel plenty of tired Charlie Angels jokes and references ) and to dish out torture , running a protection racket which Romeo and gang run afoul of given their new enterprise , and on a personal level , the rivalry for the affections of Laila ( Kareena Kapoor ) , which becomes the centerpiece in the second half of the film . The first half did seem a bit of a drag though , especially with the expanded introduction of Charlie Anna and subsequent scenes just to demonstrate what he's capable of , together with some repetitive threats of torture that definitely tested patience . Otherwise , once the seeds of romantic rivalry has been sown , with Laila being marked as Charlie Anna's romantic target , it led to a number of hilarious playful cross-exchanges between Charlie , Romeo and his gang Guru ( Vrajesh Hirjee ) , Interval ( Suresh Menon ) , Hero English ( Kiku Sharda ) , and cat Mini ( Tanaz Irani ) , which the victim given its focus on these characters was Laila , being reduced to an unfortunate supporting presence . For some strange reason , Roadside Romeo needed some getting used to as the dogs prance around on two hind legs most of the time , which brought back some memories of The Barnyard . But once you come to terms with it ( just like how the Barnyard's bulls all have udders ) , it's quite an enjoyable and light piece of animation that should do well with its intended demographic , though to an international audience , some nuances because of one pooch's frequent impersonation of Bollywood legends might be woefully lost in translation .
A Nutshell Review : Fast Food Nation	At first glance , my impression of Fast Food Nation is that it'll take a more documentary approach in highlighting issues about the fast food industry . It did look like it had room for satire with a provocative style , but should you be expecting something along the lines of Super Size Me , then this is the wrong movie for you . For starters , it's got an appeal like Thank You For Smoking , but its narrative choice of attaching characters to mouthpiece different issues , seemed to make the movie feel very scattered in its presentation of ideas . While this approach had its merits , giving different ideas appropriate focus and dedicated screen time , it didn't make a very compelling , thorough argument as a whole . Something along the lines of having too many cooks spoiling the broth , and it really kept the best for the last , building an anticipation which got glossed over too quickly . Fast Food Nation contains an excellent ensemble cast assembled , and characters ranged from illegal immigrants crossing over the US border from Mexico , to cattle ranchers , food processing plant workers , fast food outlet workers , and all the way up to the corporate boardroom of a fictional fast food chain . The entire supply chain of the fast food industry gets addressed , and every perceived skeleton from the closet gets its fair share of air time . You have doctored reports , tales from the production floor , sexual favours , poor work conditions and lack of benefits , and tons of lies . Richard Linklater movies have dialogue which rock , and there is no lack of those in Fast Food Nation . In particular , pay attention during the scene with Bruce Willis ( yes ) and Greg Kinnear . It meanders around , trying to reason , before coming down like a sledgehammer . That conversation itself is a worth the price of an admission ticket , seriously . The book ( I managed to scan through it ) probably packed a lot more theories and figures which should make it a compelling read , but the movie , whose screenplay is also co-written by the author Eric Schlosser , in having to adopt a different approach to present those ideas , somehow diluted some of them . But the movie should make you want to pick up the book for more . And yes , I'm swearing off burgers and fast food for a while .
A Nutshell Review : The Orphanage	I thought that the Orphanage had employed just about every clichéd premise out there in horrorland , where the first 5 minutes probably set up an inevitable series of events that you could have seen from 10 miles out . A creepy looking mansion which functions as an orphanage , children ( who are popular characters in many horror movies ) , and the return to a place called home . To make things worse , the story took its time to unfold , with what I perceived as a nod toward Poltergeist and Dark Water combined . However , you can't deny that The Orphanage was somewhat of a fresh breeze amongst recent horror releases . Sure I did not like the snail's pace , but I appreciate the technical details employed to craft mood and tension , without relying on the usual bag of tricks . So what you have are extremely atmospheric pieces , but don't go waiting out for cheap sound effects or sudden quick jumps to send thrills down your spine , or laughable attempts at that . Belen Rueda plays Laura , an orphan from the Orphanage who returns to the same house many years later with husband Carlos ( Fernando Cayo ) and son Simon ( Roger Princep ) in tow . Standard horror movie rule # 1 will say that things are expected to go bump in the night , and soon enough Simon starts to interact with what is brushed aside by his parents as imaginary friends borne out of his loneliness . Laura , during her childhood , got adopted and off she goes from her friends , and rule # 2 will state that she'll soon find out what had happened to the rest , weaved together quite nicely when Simon starts to disappear . I've come to casually notice that with horror movies , female protagonist are now standard fare . They will find inner strength to confront demons , believe the extraordinary and just never give up hope , whereas their male counterparts always seem whiny , disbelieving , and unsupportive . And that continues here as well . There are some nice touches here which I felt held up the plot development when it was going downhill , and that scene involving " ghostbusters " was certainly one of the best I've seen in a long while , where everything worked perfectly in providing crucial clues to further the story . But don't go to The Orphanage expecting a lot . The story's rather cliché though cleverly multi-layered in its presentation . It has its moments in key scenes , and for a horror movie , it possesses technical merits in not wanting to be just another run off the mill production , but ultimately felt quite empty despite its very glossy veneer and its headline of having Guillermo del Toro's name attached to the project .
A Nutshell Review : King and the Clown	King and the Clown was South Korea's best selling film of 2005 , having sold more than 12 million tickets over a span of 7 weeks . But after watching it , it's difficult to fathom the craze , nor about the New York Times hype that it " may be the equivalent of ' Brokeback Mountain ' " . Not that it is a bad movie , it is actually entertaining and tells an intriguing story in the courts of the Korean emperor . Perhaps anything to do with the gay theme will suffer inevitably comparisons to Lee Ang's acclaimed Brokeback Mountain . But somehow , the way this film developed , I saw it in a different light - a story between two male best friends , even though one of them might look and behave more effeminately than even some girls do . Instead of jumping to the straight conclusion that both the protagonists are gay , why can't it be a platonic relationship , and that the more effeminate one had chosen what he had to do , i . e . sell backside , because being poor minstrels , they cannot afford to put food on the table ? Literally capitalizing on his looks , to bring back the dough . Sure his friend might not like the idea , and it could be interpreted as either being jealous ( as a lover ) , or disapproving ( as a friend ) . Then again , because of culture , this movie might have decided to be more subtle about the theme . Ambiguous to say the least , but it makes for interesting debate if you watch this with a friend . Two friends , Jang-seng ( Kam Woo-sung ) and Gong-gil ( Lee Joon-ki ) , are impoverished street performers who dream of having their entertaining performances reap rewards they should be getting . They come up with a wildly popular and bawdy performance poking fun at the emperor and his consort , and it's not long before they get arrested , only to have Jang-seng proposition a dare , that if the King doesn't laugh at their skit , they can be put to death . As fate would have it , their jittery performance brought on a favourable response from the tyrannical King ( Jung Jin-young ) . Having now become official court jesters , their subsequent plays , whose content they obtain from coffee-shop talk of those days , about the royal family and other court scandals , serve as suggestive fuel for the King to break free from his constrictive shackles , and take some serious action according to his whims . But dictator attitudes aside , he casts a lustful eye at Gong-gil , and turns almost childlike when in his presence , in private . The most powerful man in the kingdom , reduced to a vulnerable kid in the presence of a lowly minstrel . What ensues is an interesting look at the relationship dynamics amongst the three men , and with the people around them . Set during the Chosun Dynasty , King and the Clown has some of the most gorgeous sets bringing to life an era long gone , and beautiful costumes that drown the movie in a myriad of colours . The songs are also fairly pleasing to the ears , and the skits , I believe , are likely to be many times more enjoyable if you understand Korean , instead of having to rely on subtitles . The movie also makes discreet jibes at those in power , and their ability , or inability , to accept satires about themselves . It is always easy for men in power to dismiss harshly the satires and their creators , but it takes a lot more to be able to look past the comic and understand the issues made fun of . There are brief scenes at courtroom politicking and on corruption , but these scenes are too short to leave any lasting impression or distract the audience . The cast is a delight to watch as they carry their roles with aplomb . The chemistry between the 3 main leads was almost perfect , especially Jung Jin-young as the temperamental King - childish at times , serious at others , and the androgynous looking Lee Joon-ki truly owned the role of Gong-gil , that even as a guy , I thought he was beautiful to look at ( ahem ) . All in all , King and the Clown is a story of friendship , how good friends fend for each other , how , despite shortcomings and misunderstandings , the best medicine is always laughter , and it's the strength of the bonds between men that can ultimately stand up against fear and overcome any adversary . If only the opening didn't spoil the entire movie .
A Nutshell Review : Robot Stories	Robot Stories is an anthology of 4 distinct segments which premiered in the Singapore Fantastic Film Festival this evening , with a common theme of advanced technology or robots taking centerstage . My Robot Baby In the future where career minded couples have no time to conceive and turn to adoption , they will have to go through a " baby trial " period , whereby they will be tasked to take care of a baby-like Tamaguchi robot , which looks similar and beeps just like Star Wars ' Artoo-Deetoo , sans legs . The robot records how it is treated by the couple , and without proper care , feeding and cleaning , once the evaluation period is up , the couple will be deemed unsuitable to adopt a human child . So when career gets in the way of childcare , desperate times calls for desperate measures . While a robot can be hacked and reprogrammed , the same cannot be done for a human child , and critical sacrifices has got to be made . It makes you think if what had been done to outsmart the system is ethical , and reflect upon a statement made by one of the characters early in the film on " never fall in love , never get married , and never have kids " if these sacrifices cannot be made . The Robot Fixer A man is lying comatose on a hospital bed , while a mother clings onto childhood memories of her time with her kid . While waiting for her child to wake up from his coma , she inevitably goes through his stuff , with most of her memories being linked with his robotic toys . While she scours all around town to re-assemble the broken and lost pieces ( in the hope that it will jog his brain waves when she speaks and presents them to him ) , it parallels her determination and never-say-die spirit that her son will one day be able to be with her again . My guess is any son or mother in the audience , will be able to identify with the characters . As a son , I did , and I know that my mom will go through all lengths to wake me up from that deep sleep , with similar methods and determination . A mother's love is always strong . Machine Love Director Greg Pak stars as the protagonist in this segment , a ( probably subtle approval to Apple ) model G9 iPerson , who's able to self-deliver himself to the company he is bought for . This segment perhaps dreams of what the future may hold for Artificial Intelligence - that of never-tiring workers who can work at their desks all day without the need for breaks , always responding eagerly to " you got work " calls and striving to accomplish all assigned tasks in the fastest possible speed . And with AI , this segment inevitably explores the " what ifs " that these lifeforms could have or developed in terms of emotions , and love , as they learn through interactions with humans . Being the perfect worker , it also brings forth fear into humans on things that we don't understand , and the usual name calling / chiding happens . Abuse also follows with female versions of the iPerson , with lecherous males openly fondling and commenting on why the racks ain't being bigger . I shan't finish this segment for you , except to comment that these robots sure know the right buttons to push ! Clay This is , in my opinion , the weakest of the four stories , but the one which has the most potential , and features the most human of emotions , that of love , longing and the anticipation of death . It is an era where the human brain can be mapped onto a computer , so that man can finally beat death , and while the physical person wastes away , the consciousness will forever be alive in an electronic form . The protagonist , however , refuses to use this technology , being a clay-artist , he loathes the thought of designing his craft without feeling or emotions . However , he uses technology to interact with his dead ( ? ) wife , and with the proper plug in , could also get intimate with her . There is nothing new with this technology feature as it was also shown on screen in Tom Cruise's Minority Report . But interwoven into the narrative is a strong sense of his wanting to be back in the arms of his wife again . Do stay for the end credits . There is a slide at the end which states that production started on September 10th 2001 , and the crew lost one of their own in the WTC attacks . Also after the end credits , one of the dancing robots ( featured in the opening credits ) will appear with a message on New York . For those who wish to catch this film , you can do so on Monday where the evening show will be screened at GV Marina .
A Nutshell Review : Closing The Ring	Never make promises you can't fulfill , otherwise you'll find that nagging feeling coming back to haunt you , and it can be quite uncomfortable , unless of course it doesn't bother you as far as integrity and trustworthiness are concerned . Then again there's the living a lie , of not being true to yourself , which sometimes can be tricky when it deals with affairs of the heart , where ignorance may be bliss . Closing the Ring throws its hat into the WWII era inspired romance stories , where boys turn into men , and have to leave their lady love behind at home while they ship off to the warfront . With events that unfold across two different continents , and unfolding between two different timelines with the necessary flash backs , flash forwards , and nicely edited transitions , the movie isn't that bad although the story might be at times clichéd . Jack ( Gregory Smith ) , Chuck ( David Alpay ) and Teddy ( Stephen Amell ) are three buddies who join the air force , and are training to be pilots , navigators and gunners , whatever it takes to bring them to the skies . Mischa Barton stars as young Ethel Ann who's the flower amongst the group , but only having romantic feelings for Teddy , whom she married in secret before the trio got shipped away to join the war . That's the arc of the past , where we see how their relationship with one another hold up during mankind's darkest hour . The arc of the present has Shirley MacLaine and Christopher Plummer take up the senior roles of Ethel Ann and Jack respectively , and on the other side of the continent in Northern Ireland , we follow Michael Quinlan ( Pete Postlethwaite ) and Jimmy Reilly ( Martin McCann ) , where the latter is a simple minded teen helping the former fireman dig around Black Mountain in search of something of value . I guess by now you can piece together a little bit of what could possibly happen , and added to the fray is the IRA's struggle for independence in 1991 . Characters interact by crossing continents , mysteries and confirmation of what happened during those faithful and pivotal moments in WWII get revealed and explained , and feelings slowly get revealed , demolishing some long held denial and unawareness . Although given what would transpire , you wonder if it's remotely possible to pine for someone for so long , or to lock away your heart so cruelly that you shut off affections even for your own child . It's still an enjoyable movie , though not exactly a great one but it does get to its point quickly . You might find yourself being a step ahead of the characters and piece together all the information provided way in advance , but still , if you'd enjoyed movies like Atonement and Evening , then you wouldn't find this that bad at all . Oh , and the English subtitles did help in deciphering some thick Irish accent .
A Nutshell Review : A History of Violence	Finally , a movie based on a source material that I've read ! Based on the graphic novel of the same name by writer John Wagner and artist Vince Locke , A History of Violence is David Cronenberg's latest film starring Viggo Mortensen ( don't know why , but I'm always seeing Elessar in his new character . . . ) I'm usually OK with film adaptations not sticking closely to the material it's based on , basically because they're on different mediums , and it's a bore to have the movie follow the book word for word , scene for scene . Although this review will be working on the premise that it is a stand alone film , I can't help to notice that , unfortunately , the book told the better story , in terms of characterization ( ok , so the movie is relatively short , clocking in about 90mins ) and the back story on Tom's ( Viggo ) history . If you'd bear with me , I'd highlight some of the major departures from the book - Tom's son now has a beefed up role , Ed Harris's wounded eye is on the wrong side ( as shown in the trailers and movie , it's on his left , but it should be the right ) and Tom's last name from McKenna has been changed to Stall . The story and ending of Richie has been totally changed . The book has 3 chapters , but it's only the first that the movie dwells upon , and completely changing and summarizing the last 2 chapters . The introduction is one incredibly long , and slow scene which showcases the 2 killers that Tom dispatches in his diner thereafter . I like this scene which is superior to the book , but somehow it sets the pace of the entire movie - slow and measured . The story tells of an everyday all American Family , the Stalls , who live in a small town of Millbrook , Indiana , being brought to the limelight when head of the household Tom , guns down 2 violent thugs who robbed his diner and threatening his customers . Tom , a soft-spoken man , becomes the town's hero , and soon after , more thugs from the East Coast come and stalk him and his family . But is Tom the man he claims he is , or has his past finally caught up with him ? Playing Tom , Viggo Mortensen puts up a credible performance as the unassuming Tom Stall , and does an about turn as a violent character of his past . While the theme talks about violence and the debate on the necessity of it , it gets brushed away pretty quick towards the last act , which degenerates this movie into a short actioner . Needless to say , the psyche of the Family plays an important role between contrasting the relationship between Tom and his wife and kids , which changes as the movie progresses , and that between Tom and Ritchie ( completely re-written for the movie ) , which I thought was a pity . The R21 rating is for violence ( gruesome shots of heads blown off etc ) , but if they'd stuck to the book , there'll be more scenes like the one with the drill-in-the-leg torture scene , etc . But Cronenberg decided to include sex scenes between Tom and his wife , which figured some cheerleading role play , a 69 , and a totally out of character rowdy staircase romp . Hello , this is not a History of Sex . ( I know it's Cronenberg , but still ) While I liked this film for its slow pace ( no frantic MTV styled quick cuts , or scenes which appear and disappear at the bat of an eyelid ) , I can't shake off the feeling that this film had the potential to be way , way better . Excellent I do not think so , but it still is an enjoyable movie to catch on a weekday .
A Nutshell Review : Nianchan	Actress Yoshiyuki Kazuko was at today's screening to present the movie to the audience . She mentioned it was a special day for her , and that Nianchan was the second movie she had made in her career of 50 years . Shohei Imamura had actually told her to become rounder and fatter for the role , and she thought that since it's only her second film , the acting here is not on par yet and felt that it probably might be the last role she'll ever star in ! She told the audience she was excited about today's screening , and shared that while Imamura was fierce in his directing of the film , it is thanks to him that she has been acting for the last 50 years . She thanked the audience for turning up , and told us that it was great to watch the movie again ( and she did stay until the end of it ! ) Nianchan is the film that brings together both the director-in-focus and the actress-in - attendance for this year's Japanese Film Festival . The movie is directed by Shohei Imamura , and just last week , we had seen a series of his movies , like the excellent Ballad of Narayama , and the World Cinema Series kickstarted with his Profound Desire of the Gods . In Nianchan , he directs Yoshiyuki Kazuko to an award winning performance . Set during Japan's depression years in the 50s , Nianchan ( read : My Second Brother ) tells the story about a family of 4 orphans , who are forced by circumstances to fend for themselves . Being in a mining town where the mining company is beginning to right-size its operations , jobs are getting scarce , and wages are getting lower with frequent cuts . Sticking together trying to find a way out of the vicious circle is close to impossible , and they realize that they have a better chance at carving a living if they split up . Imamura again proved his deftness in handling a piece treading on the lower rungs of society . Here , he puts the spotlight on the minority of Koreans who were left in dire straits after the war when they decide to remain in Japan , only to lose their livelihood to returning Japanese soldiers . We see how in a depressive state , help is not always readily available , and if that extra hand is extended , it may at most be temporary , most times with the disapproval of somebody else , of an opinion that these extra resources should go into their own pockets rather than to someone else's . There are some references from more contemporary movies which I was drawing references from when viewing this old black and white film . With the mining town setting and the depression it faced , it brought to mind the movie Hula Girls , where the female inhabitants of the town pick up a new skill , and with it set about transforming their town into an integrated resort with the Hawaiian theme . Also , with the younger siblings taking care of each other , it somehow brought to mind Majid Majidi's Children of Heaven . Maybe not quite the same premise , but the dynamics and relationship between the brother ( the titular Nianchan ) and his sister , reminded me of the dynamics of the siblings in Majidi's movie . While the movie print has aged , the spirit of the themes still ring through well . But I felt it's not exactly A material , but one that's still quite passable , which I thought ended on a good note of hope rather than with despair .
A Nutshell Review : 20th Century Boys	I had earlier written about comic books being rich material for filmmakers to raid and adopt them into a cinematic version , and with the success of the Death Note franchise , it's more than apparent that such movies will have its built in audience , and in this case , to skyrocket the movie to box office success . Depending on how the story is adapted , some will take liberties to gear the material for non - fans , to introduce it to a new audience . Death Note for instance , does this quite perfectly , drawing those unfamiliar with its mythos , and at the same time entertaining the fanboys . Mushishi on the other hand , assumed that one goes in with a bit of background knowledge , as it doesn't dwell too long , if at all , on the character backstory . 20th Century Boys however managed to take the middle ground , though I felt its presentation was somewhat left wanting . We're introduced to Kenji ( Toshiaki Karasawa ) , a supermarket manager who's about to be thrown into the adventure of his life . In a school reunion , he gets acquainted with his old pals , most of whom he already cannot recognize , before they launch into a discussion of a strange series of happenings which involve the emergence of their secret logo created during their childhood . As they catch up with one another , we also learn that collectively amongst the group , they vaguely recollect their 9 members , and hence sowed some suspicion as to the identity of who the new cult leader is , one who always hide behind a mask and calls himself Kira , oops , wrong movie - " Friend " . Throw into the plot yet another device in the form of a book called the Book of Prophecies , which Kenji is chief author , in somewhat of a create your own adventure with his pals , as they dream of the world coming to an end at the turn of the millennium , what with strange plagues , terrorist attacks , and a giant robot taking the place of the stay puff marshmallow man . They realize that world disasters are unfolded as per the sequence in their childhood book , and thus , with their sense of responsibility , work to try and put an end to the madness . For the first half of the movie , the story really plods on , as it took great pains to try and introduce to us the array of characters important to the series , including an infant heralded as the Chosen One . While most of the characters remain rather one-dimensional with nothing much revealed about their background despite the frequent flashbacks ( some which do get repetitive ) , Kenji is the focus of this installment , as we see an emergence of a resistance fighter from within a mild and meek , and often clueless supermarket manager . He doesn't really strike you as charismatic or well skilled to lead a group of do-gooders , but the second half would address all those concerns . In wanting to remain unconventional , the story moves forward and back so frequently , that it'll give you a headache . It seemed to be wanting to shovel down character backgrounds incessantly , as every opportunity found to go into flashback mode , will be utilized , so much so that it becomes mentally tiring after a while to keep track of current time . Time plays an important part in the story as it hinges everything on D-Day of 31 December 2000 , where a foretold apocalypse is expected to happen . And here's where it really shines , even when the arrival of D-Day involved plenty of droning pep-talking . Looking at the locations , sets , and big action sequences throughout the film , it's indeed a relatively big budget production with no qualms about throwing money to achieve some form of visual perfection . The finale is nothing short of breathtaking , and with well filled tension , though if you're not expecting this to be the first episode of an franchise , you'll find yourself swearing at its cliffhanger ending . It's not a complete story per se even though it managed to remain self-contained , as it retains just about as much mystery as it did from the onset , with nothing much revealed or addressed . For those looking into something more , I thought it had drawn some interesting parallels about the dangers of cults , and how enticing the promises made by preacher could be , with the followers blinding adhering to every word like it's the gospel . There are enough false prophets in the world , but those who can command a huge following , could grow and if their aspirations do find their way to the political arena , then just as how a manga-turned-movie would have its ready audience , then these political parties would already come with their congregation as ready supporters and voters . For the eager beavers , it's not until January that you can watch the next part , so do remember to stay until right after the end credits roll for the trailer to Part 2 .
A Nutshell Review : The Other End of the Line	Much has been said about the outsourcing of call centers to India , but so far I haven't seen one portrayed in a film in this manner , where Ifelt the portrayal of its inner workings was one of the better moments in his romantic-comedy . As far as I can recall , those who make cold calls to me for surveys , credit sign up and the likes , seem to sound local , or have that distinct regional accent that wasn't disguised , but if things happen per the movie , I won't be surprised that I was duped to believe they're calling from somewhere locally , rather than from abroad . So welcome to the world of tele-marketers / helpdesks agents / salespersons , where in-house training centres established take their employees through continuous training in order to ensure their accent are masked , their pop-culture knowledge brought up to speed , and they're well-versed in local colloquial terms , so that they seem to be your friend from next door when they talk to you , rather than a feeling of resentment knowing that their neighbours job has gone offshore . It's no easy training , and naturally one that calls for great measure of patience for facing phones being slammed down , or worse to stand up to verbal abuse in many forms . The Other End of the Line is your standard romantic comedy , which in my opinion got lifted from mediocrity thanks to this aspect of the story that I had a peek into . However , like most east-west fusion films made by Hollywood on Indian culture or aspects of India , it does get romanticized a great deal , and shots of Mumbai looked far too much like it's being lifted from a tourism board promotional video , or some tourist's excitable travel video of an exotic locale that he came back from . Think along the lines of Mistress of Spice , and Bride and Prejudice , and you have an idea how this story by Tracey Jackson had been approached by director James Dodson . Priya Sethi ( Shriya ) works in a call centre in Mumbai belonging to CitiOne Bank ( no prizes here ) , and her daily night shift ( to be on the same timezone as the USA ) gets frowned upon by her conservative family ( Anupam Kher from Victory as Dad , and Sushmita Mukherjee from Dostana as Mum ) , even though she's earning good money to become the chief breadwinner , versus than her insurance salesman dad . She adopts her Jessica David profile for calls she makes to CitiOne's customers , putting on a perfect American accent as she speaks to strangers every night , only to call on a handsome young man ( she knows because she Googles ) Granger Woodruff ( Jesse Metcalfe of John Tucker and Desperate Housewives fame ) who had his identity stolen and a whole host of credit card transactions erroneously billed to him . The both of them strike up a friendship as they speak frequently to clear up and verify his credit card transactions , and with one thing leading to an impulsive another , they set up a date , even though she knowingly lives on the other side of the world in India , while fibbing that she's actually in San Francisco , a city which Granger would be going to for a make or break advertising deal with a hotel chain . As with any romantic movie , the chemistry between the couple is important for it to be believable that they're falling for each other , and in this aspect both Jesse Metcalfe and Shriya excelled in , looking good on screen as they share plenty of romantic moments the plot had thrown at them . You'd find yourself inevitably rooting for them as they overcome expected challenges , knowing that these issues will probably not be show stoppers , since they conflict with the type of characters they are , strong-willed and stubborn as a mule toward tradition that the modern generation do not buy into , or just don't buy into spending time with someone they don't believe in . Possessing some amazing powers and ability to hear from a distance , The Other End of the Line is a long-distance infatuation that took on a life of its own , where characters step out of their comfort zones to pursue what their heart tells them . Since it's just a few days after Valentine's , this movie got made and released now for a reason , to have you partake in some lovey-dovey movie with comedy courtesy of a traditional family thrown in for good measure . Need a movie for a romantic night out ? Then The Other End of the Line will satisfy that objective . Nothing fancy , but it works .
A Nutshell Review : 27 Dresses	Katherine Heigl probably captured the imagination of the many geeky boys out there when she gave Seth Logan's Ben Stone a one night stand in Judd Apatow's Knocked Up . It's a ridiculous premise some might add , but it propelled her to mass consciousness as the beautiful girl who would , and provided her an elevation of status she would recently decide to loathe . Anyway , all is forgiven , and she's back to grace our screens in a role that demonstrates you can attempt to dress her up in a sack , and even that would still make her look oh-so-sexy . Yes she's a clotheshorse , and Aline Brosh McKenna , whose earlier work was adapting The Devil Wears Prada for the screen , wrote a story filled with clothes and accessories that would do her no wrong , try as they might . This in fact is the draw of the movie , hitting out at the target audience just as Prada did with the many fashionable clothes , and this time , wedding gowns fit for a bridesmaid . Heigl plays a plain Jane , who discovers that her goal in life is to ensure that others celebrate their unforgettable wedding day with everything going like clockwork . She's the maid of honour , and organizes everything from early preparation like food tasting right down to actual day menial tasks , like holding the bride's gown while she's taking a pee . Like the trailer suggests , her perfect world is about to turn topsy turvy as the man of her dreams , her boss actually - George ( Edward Burns ) , get smitten with her sexy-kitten sister Tess ( Malin Akerman ) , thus allowing the green eyed monster to rear its ugly head , while at the same time , a mysterious lurker Kevin ( James Marsden ) becomes a perpetual irritation by trying very hard to crawl into her life . It's your classic recipe for a romantic comedy with love triangles , repressed feelings , and the most cliché of all , having the one you love standing right in front of you without you even knowing it . However , 27 Dresses played out like how the dresses themselves get quickly discarded into an overflowing cupboard . It has tons of potential in its material , but decide to bite off too much more than it can possibly chew . Like In Her Shoes , there was stuff of sibling rivalry ripe for the picking , but easily get glossed over in fleeting , unmemorable moments when the sisters go up against each other . And the love loss moments , while clearly there to milk emotions of the sentimental ones , did highlight a certain truth - that when we act on our impulses of negativeness , be it anger or envy and the likes , while we get our short term satisfaction when dishing out sweet revenge at that moment , more often than not we'll very soon find that we're flooded with feelings of regret and remorse , that actions when done , are spilt milk that cannot be cried over . I liked the beginning though , as it succinctly highlights the commercialization of the solemn marriage ceremony in modern times . These days , you can't tell one wedding moment apart from another , and don't get me started on those wedding dinners , where the same old formula gets repeated until they become stale , and you realize this starkness when you get invited to different weddings at the same venue , no doubt being packaged by the same offering . Such events are supposed to be unique and special , but they turn out like factory assembly lines . In my opinion , Katherine Heigl would probably be able to cement her leading lady status , and probably able to marquee movies on her own soon enough . Perhaps it would be refreshing if we could see her take on more diverse roles , if she breaks out of the rom-com genre . James Marsden continues his bad run of supporting roles , from Hairspray and Enchanted . Here , he combines elements from both , continuing his himbo status , and makes it three in a row in exhibiting his singing voice . Edward Burns plays the male bitch , taking over Meryl Streep in Prada , though there's a subtlety in the difference here that he doesn't show that he's an ass outwardly in an explicit manner , but rather seemed to be like the one in Singapore Dreaming . And Heigl is not only the one here making an impact though , as Malin Akerman herself probably , and hopefully not in a permanent manner , boxed herself as the new ditzy blonde ( remember The Heartbreak Kid ? ) , clearly taking over the mantle from Cameron Diaz . 27 Dresses is a movie that's meant to be a filler during a date , and one which doesn't shy away from trying hard to satisfy those who have come to pay tribute to woman's fashion . Especially when they're modelled by a statuesque beauty like Heigl . Come to think of it , while the gowns get their fair share of screen time , all 27 of them , the ones that stand out are the ordinary ones worn by Jane . And that's what 27 Dresses actually is . Ordinary , and saved by the beauty .
A Nutshell Review : Walk the Line	How uncanny . Today is the day that Walk the Line won big at the Golden Globes , winning Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy , as well as snagging the Best Actor and Actress - Musical / Comedy for both Joaquin Phoenix and Resse Whiterspoon . Today is also the day that I attended my first GV Surprise Screening , and Walk the Line was shown . You've got Elvis , and you've got Johnny Cash . Walk the Line chronicles the life of country music legend JOhn R . Cash , who performed alongside other music legends like Elvis Presley and Jerry Lee Lewis . It also tells of the struggles of one man's determination to make music his life , the reliance and subsequent battle against drugs , and looks into his various relationships . Sound familiar ? Of course it does . Walk the Line is in 2005 ( locally 2006 ) what Ray was in 2004 ( locally 2005 ) . I know it's probably unfair at making the comparison , given that both musicians ' music are so different . But the way the narrative is structured for Walk the Line , resembled that of Ray's quite a bit , that you might think you know what would go next when you substitute Jamie Foxx with Joaquin Phoenix . Both had to pick up music , both won nods for their accurate portrayals , and both had to sing in their actual voice . Drawing parallels , we see how both draw inspiration from their life encounters and encompass them into musical lyrics , how stardom grew in their heads , how succumbing to drugs screwed everything up , and how they harness creativity in making comebacks . While Ray was a more personal look into Ray Charles ' extraordinary career , Walk the Line seemed to have tried to cover more ground , but somewhat loses its focus occasionally . Too many subplots just got tied up at the end without much detailed exploration , like the strained relation between Johnny and his father ( played so stoically by Robert Patrick ) , whom the former is blamed for the death of his beloved brother , or the struggles June Carter ( Resse Whiterspoon ) has to face being a divorcée in days were marriage is sacred . Equally glossed over too is the matrimony development and deterioration between John and his wife Vivian - we know he loves her and managed to provide her material needs , but all she longed for is his presence . Sigh , sometimes you can't have the cake and eat it too . He works hard to build up his career ( therefore spending a lot of time on the road ) , and can't seem to juggle and find the work-life balance . Where does Resse come into all this you say ? She plays his best friend and fellow performer on the road , June Carter . It's like the third ( married ) party coming into the life of a lonely married man giving in to temptation . She tried her darndest best to reject Johnny , but ultimately caved in to his persistence . But both of them , when paired up on screen singing their songs , have the exact same power as Ray's in having you tap / sing / groove along to the tunes . Their chemistry is a delight to watch . If you're not too acquainted with Cash's music , this is as good an opportunity to do so . Until the drugs rear their ugly head and the tunes just stopped while he undergoes some soul-searching rehabilitation . A pity that his comeback at recording live at Folsom Prison , was too short , otherwise it would have been a really good way to cap it all off . It's a good film nonetheless , though I felt that those who have watched Ray might have sensed a deja-vu .
A Nutshell Review : My Summer of Love	My Summer of Love , as the title implies , is about a romance during the summer holidays . Perhaps one of the draws of this movie in release now in Singapore , is indirectly from the popularity of The Devil Wears Prada , with Emily Blunt playing the role of an uncooperative , bullying colleague to Anne Hathaway's Andrea . Yet another GLBT movie to hit our shores ( somehow I think lesbian love films make it here more frequently than gay ones ? ) , this movie , based on a novel written by Helen Cross , and directed by Pawel Pawlikowski , has won the BAFTA award for Best British Film , amongst other movie awards . The protagonist is Mona ( Nathalie Press ) , a young orphaned girl on the verge of losing her brother Phil ( Paddy Considine ) to his rediscovery of Christianity . They own a bar , but with his turn for the supposed better , he has converted their joint to a meeting place for his cell group of reborn Christians . Lonely , she chances upon Tamsin ( Emily Blunt ) , a girl back from boarding school for the holidays , and the two soon strike up a fast friendship . It makes you wonder how one develops feelings for members of the same sex , or if such harbouring of feelings is innate in the first place . Mona becomes the surrogate sister of Tamsin , who is a typical poor pitiful rich girl looking for thrills , who had lost her own sister , and found a substitute in Mona . Coming from families who seemingly don't care for them , their hanging out together draws them closer to each other . Much of the movie shows this development of friendship into something more , of the forging of friendship amongst lonely people , and devotes much screen time to this . However , there is another side observation on a separate theme , and that's of religion . I found that this film bold in its depiction of the hypocrisy amongst men who assume they have godly powers over mere mortals , and how their bigoted views often seem misguided . It doesn't mince its message on speaking in tongues , or having the Lord speak through oneself in the judgement of others . Of course it's always tough being the good and holy person , given sinners are we all , but there are plenty of scenes in this movie that probably suggests that there is always a veil of hypocrisy surrounding those who use the name of the Lord in vain . Through Phil , we see how hard he tries to be accepted back to society , how hard he tries to imagine that he has changed for the better because of his devotion to religious cause , and how easy it is to fall back into the path which totally contradicts every well-meaning effort trying to change oneself . On a lighter note , there is a little hint of mystery that nags you throughout the film about possible deception . And with the twist revealed at the end , it somehow makes your blood boil a bit , never mind if you don't swing for the same side . Perhaps sometimes , it's always best to heed advice from blood which is always thicker than water , or stick to the notion that summer flings should always begin and end as the season comes and goes .
A Nutshell Review : Rob-B-Hood	Jackie Chan is undoubtedly one of the few Asian stars whose name alone can open a movie , probably worldwide now . With his latest offering for the Chinese National Day holiday in Rob - B-Hood , he has again done back to basics , together with one of his collaborators of late Benny Chan ( New Police Story , Who Am I ) , with his mantra of " no sex no violence " , but just pure action . In his recent movies , while staying true to his brand of action together with his band of merry men from the Jackie Chan Stunt Team , there is no denial of his attempt to infuse a little more drama into his role so as to showcase his acting chops . While his acting in slow moments might not appeal to fans of his action , it looks like dramatic moments are here to stay . However , if you'd notice there's a progression in his willingness to move away from one - man-army type of roles , to sharing the limelight with his fellow co-stars . Here , his screen time is almost equally shared with co-lead Louis Koo , with the both of them playing unsavoury characters - thieves with vices , with Chan as Thongs , a hardcore gambler with family issues , and Koo as Octopus , a married womanizer and fast car lover . They turn to their current profession of thievery to sustain their lifestyle , and the brains behind the duo's brawn is Landlord , played by veteran Michael Hui , a man whose wife is devastated by the loss of their only child . See the plenty of moments for some serious drama yet ? It is perhaps these moments where an exploration into the character's background slowed down the pace of what could've been a rip-roaring ride from start to end . Clocking in at 135 minutes , the movie felt that it could've been shortened as certain scenes were just too trying . The action scenes too were few and far between , though each scene is still carefully choreographed and felt that it lasted longer than the usual . The comedic element came in full swing with the introduction of the baby , which probably is the movie's trump card in luring the crowds ( my friend and I didn't think he was that adorable actually ) . It's nothing new as the antics of soiled diapers , refusal to stop crying , and various moments of what baby would do , have already been touched upon in movies like 3 Men and a Baby , or even Raising Arizona . However , having one actor play daddy , and the other play mommy , does call for some genuine laughs sometimes . Louis Koo has been playing the bad guy role to aplomb with his Election movies , and here , it's a nice change to see him tackle both comedy and action . I truly welcomed Michael Hui's return to the big screen , as one of my favourite comedies as a kid , was his Chicken and Duck Talk . Here though , there aren't many moments where he exhibited his classic bossy demeanour full of wit and sarcasm , probably hampered by the script . The supporting casts consists of actors past and present in roles that either brought back some good memories , or are milked just for laughs . Yuen Biao was the other supporting role that compelled me to watch this movie , as he seemed to have faded from starring in movies for some time now . He doesn't have much to do here , save for some limited screen action . Actresses like Charlene Choi , Teresa Carpio and Gao Yuanyuan add balance to the testosterone on screen , but probably the best cameo appearance belongs to the duo of Nicholas Tse and Daniel Wu ( totally different from what you see now in The Banquet ) ! As always , stay at your seats while the end credits roll , for the usual out-takes included . My only gripe would still be to have this shown in Cantonese , somehow the dubbing of the out - takes sounded really too artificial .
A Nutshell Review : Angus , Thongs and Perfect Snogging	I guess Angus , Thongs and Perfect Snogging is the female equivalent of the teenage male sex comedies , without the sex or gratuitous nudity that is , because this is firmly in chick lit territory and based upon two books written by Louise Rennison - Angus , Thongs and Full - Frontal Snogging and On the Bright Side , I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God . If you may , this aligns itself more toward Sue Townsend's Adrian Mole series , where we get a glimpse of the titular character's daily life and anxieties through episodes of growing pains . Directed by Gurinder Chadha who brought us Bride & Prejudice and Bend It Like Beckham , this movie centres upon 14 year old Georgia Nicholson ( Georgia Groome ) and her three girly pals whom Jas ( Eleanor Tomlinson ) is her best pal of the lot . Both have major infatuations with new boys in school Robbie ( Aaron Johnson ) and Tom ( Sean Bourke ) , and naturally jealousy ensues when Jas manages to hook up with Tom , but for Georgia , she's stuck with having to battle for Robbie's affections with rival Wet Lindsay ( Kimberley Nixon , last seen in Wild Child ) , who's the school's flower with cover girl looks . And while " boylingual issues " occupy the bulk of Georgia's time , she also has major freak - outs with trying to figure how to throw the most memorable birthday party ever , as well as trying to save her own family from disintegrating , with Dad ( Alan Davies ) being sent to New Zealand because of a major promotion at work , and Mom ( Karen Taylor ) seems to be having a flirty good time with their home interior decorator . It's quite a ditzy film and I guess for all the girls out there , the events as they unfold in the movie will probably be easily identifiable , and I guess the boys too will have a field day with some of the situational humour which came by the bucketloads . And what I thought to be really quite accurate , is the way how everyone second guesses each other when it comes to the affairs of the hearts , and sometimes dwell onto stuff a little too much to the extreme , incessantly finding meaning in something as simple as a word or phrase . This naturally brings out the ugliness that stem from desperation , and we observe how Georgia slowly degenerates from nice girl next door , to uber Ms Insensitive . It's a fairly light and breezy chick flick that is peppered by some insane characters , such as Georgia's sister who thinks that she's a cat , and probably who I thought to be one of the most innovative fellas out there who would outplay , outlast and outwit the likes of Stifler and McLovin , is Peter Dyer , the self-professed expert who offers lessons and opportunity in allowing girls to experiment in achieving the perfect snog . Talk about being sly ! Ultimately , this is a feel good movie which has all its loose threads tied up very conveniently , which you could see coming from a mile away . But it doesn't dwell on its problems for too long , because there's always a solution that springs up for Georgia and gang to tap on . Peppered by some good music in the soundtrack , and generally likable characters who remind all of us of some dreaded issues when growing up , Angus , Thongs and Perfect Snogging is a surprisingly well designed teenage comedy that doesn't have to rely on cheap gimmicks like incessant foul language , sex and nudity to draw the crowds . And for that quality , this is somewhat refreshing for comedies targeted at that demographics . I might go one step further and say I won't mind ploughing through the books as well !
A Nutshell Review : Ong Bak 2	There's no doubt I've been a fan of movies starring Tony Jaa with the likes of Ong Bak and Tom Yum Goong being showcases for the Muay Thai brand of martial arts , and I fondly remember those hard hitting action sequences that left me gaping , as well as the numerous replays just to drum it through to you that it's all Jaa and it's all as incredible as can be . And who can forget the latter film with that amazing single take where Jaa had to pound his way from the bottom of a building right to the top ? Ong Bak 2 is a film fans like myself have been waiting for , despite it being marred by some really strange controversy , which also included Jaa walking off the set and disappearing from production . But everything's been sorted I guess , for the film to be completed and finally released . While it's rocking the box office in Thailand , I wonder whether it's because of the controversies that had piqued everyone's interest , or it's because the long break of 3 years had made everyone salivate at Jaa's long awaited return to the big screen . I wonder because while there are numerous moments in the film that I thoroughly enjoyed , I felt that it fell short too on other areas that had left me shifting in my seat , especially during the first hour . And the biggest culprit of it all , would be the ending . Tony Jaa wrote this story , and credit to him too in trying to weave together some semblance of a worthy story instead of the more obvious and easier whack-fest end to end . But the ending was somewhat of a cop out , and a disappointment , as it leads potentially and very directly to a third movie to resolve the issues the storyline had left hanging . It could have easily stretched it to say , 20 minutes more to get everything settled , but I guess there were grander plans to the tale that needed another movie to tell . One only wishes that it does get made sooner rather than later , and without the production woes that plagued this one . So Ong Bak 2 is actually half a movie , and given that it's a totally new story to begin with , I thought it would make better sense in retitling it , rather than to have a misnomer that it's a sequel . After all , the setting is now back in 15th century Thailand with totally new characters , with Jaa playing Tien , a man of royal lineage who's trying to avenge the death of his parents and entire household under the hands of rival warlords , and a masked man who delivered the killing blow to his dad . The first half of the movie had him learn from a band of bandits called the Garuda Wing Cliff , where a number of highly skilled exponents teach him all there is to know about their respective fields . I remembered having read somewhere that there's supposed to be some fusion of dance and martial arts , which didn't transpire in this film as far as I can tell ( the dance / action sequence here doesn't make the cut ) , so it might be left for the next movie instead . Compared to the other Tony Jaa movies , you can see that the production values here have been ramped up tremendously . Techniques have also matured , and gone are the repetitive playbacks . But that doesn't mean you're going to lose out , because like any self-respecting martial arts film , the camera stays still when it should be and at a sane distance away to capture all the action comfortably , and the editing doesn't cut in and mess up the sequence . While the filmmaker in Tony Jaa would have matured with this outing ( he co-directed this ) , his maturity as a martial artist on film is now without a doubt . We only get flashes of his Muay Thai when it calls for some close combat involving elbows and knees right smack in the kisser , otherwise we see Jaa as a more complete martial arts practitioner with the employment of a vast array of weapons , from swords to three-section-staffs , and a host of recognizable kung-fu moves , one which also pays homage to the Drunken Fists , and I applaud Jaa's rendition of it too . As for the revered elephant , you know it's never far behind , and there's one thrilling battle atop the large mammal , with Dan ( ce ) Chupong no less , albeit hidden behind a mask . Ong Bak 2 picked up very slowly , and spent significant time developing the back story of Jaa's Tien . And unfortunately , I do admit unabashedly that I was waiting for action sequence one after another , and those in the same boat will have to be patient . For action junkies , your appetite will only be satiated in the last act of the film , where it's vintage Jaa as he dishes out punishment , and receives much of the same in return . I detested the ending which wrapped everything up so conveniently ( I don't buy the Karma bit ) , or left subplots such as the romantic angle as something to be dwelled upon later ( though I believe romance never really was an issue at all in Jaa's movies ) , leaving doors wide open for another film . Perhaps I should reserve my judgement of it until the next movie completes the story ? So at this moment , we can still enjoy what Tony Jaa has prepared for action fans worldwide ? a showcase that he's not just all about Muay Thai , but a bona fide action hero who's the real deal , crafting a myriad of incredible fight sequences that would still leave your mouth gaping wide open .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Tears of the Black Tiger ( 2000 )	I've borrowed this DVD from the library twice before , but never had the chance to watch it , until now . The appeal is actually to see some of Thai director Wisit Sasanatieng's past works , before his up and coming made-in-Singapore flick called Armful . And I've heard some good things about this movie too . The story combines two different genres into one , the first being a cowboy western , ( set in Thailand no less ! ) and the usual star-crossed lover romance . Perhaps the novelty of the first genre type is having Thai folks dress up as cowboys , riding on their steed and somehow , becoming the villains as they plunder and kill . Yup , they're not the good guys , against the usual stereotype . Here , the cowboys are bandits , and the good folks are naturally , the cops . But amongst all the bad hats ( pardon the pun ) , there's always the hero who's forced by circumstances to join the group . Dum ( Chartchai Ngamsan ) , also known as the notorious Black Tiger , renowned fastest and deadliest draw in all of Thailand , has a childhood sweetheart in Rumpoey ( Sttella Malucchi ) . However , their difference in status ( he's the son of a servant , while she , the daughter of the governor ) meant that it's a forbidden romance to begin with . Knowing his place in her world , he could only admire from afar , becoming her protector , shielding her from harm ( like numerous approaches by lechers and bandits ) . A man gotta do what a man gotta do , and during one of his missions , he failed to meet up with Rumpoey presumably to elope , while she took it as a sign that he didn't want to . Like Romeo and Juliet , she's betrothed to Kumjorn ( Arawat Ruangyuth ) , a police captain captured by Dum's notorious gangster boss Fai ( Sombat Metanee ) . And like all star crossed lovers whose lives are played by Fate , these events start to spin and take on a life of its own , changing the course of our characters lives forever . It's a beautifully shot movie , with plenty of pastel colours draping the sets , which at times make you cringe and beg for it to stop . As if to complement its saccharine sweet and sentimental love story , it elevates the movie to a surreal dream like level . The action sequences can be quite cheesy , with the reminiscence of old spaghetti cowboy western gun fights . But the best bits about the film , are the songs . I don't understand Thai , but even if without the subtitles interpreting the lyrics , I thought that they were beautiful enough to accentuate scenes in the movie . Perhaps my only gripe about the movie in this version of the DVD , is that the bloody violence had been censored , depriving me the bloody glee of watching the Black Tiger dispatch his opponents with his accuracy . There were scenes where footsoldiers bled by the bucketloads of ketchup , but the crucial one-on-ones were totally censored , and you wouldn't know the nitty gritty details of the death . Truly marred my enjoyment of the movie . What gives ? Code 3 DVD contains some extras , like Extracts from the Book - Black Tiger's Philosophy and Rumpoey's Guilt , explaining a bit more about the lead characters , Insights into the Film Aesthetic takes a look at the Sala Raw Nang , or " Awaiting the Maiden " , the quintessential Thai shelter , and how Rattana Pestonji ( indie Thai filmmaker ) had influenced the set design , especially the colours . The extras is topped off with a one static screen Director's Inspiration , and the list of awards which this film has won .
A Nutshell Review : The Lake House	I haven't watched Il Mare , the Korean original starring Jeon Ji-hyun , in which this Hollywood remake is based upon . I refuse to watch the original on VCD , and had no luck in tracking down a DVD copy . I guess it's just a matter of time before I order it online , some box-set no less . In any case , what probably excited audiences to the remake , is the pairing of Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock , one which has been long overdue since their very first pairing which sizzled with chemistry , and that being on an action movie no less - Speed . While both had moved on to star in various romances with other counterparts such as Charlize Theron , Cameron Diaz , Bill Pullman , Ben Affleck and Harry Connick Jr . , the wait is over as they now reunite on screen in The Lake House . But throughout the 100 minutes movie , they share not more than 15 minutes of screen time together , and those are precious minutes which will have the audience inevitably rooting for something to happen . Especially so with the time-travel note-in-the-letterbox plot device where comedic , smart alecky words slowly turn into mushy terms of endearment . Reeves and Bullock , considerably aged from their first outing together , are perfectly cast as the unlikely lovers separated by time . However , to fit into the typical Hollywood finale , there's a huge plot loophole in the time travelling piece , which I find a pity , then again , it's probably an ending that most people would expect , and crave for ? As the story progressed , there were no issues with time travelling being in the way of the narrative . Keanu's Alex is an architect in the year 2004 , and Sandra's Kate is a doctor in the year 2006 . They are occupants of a house on a lake in Chicago , and slowly find that through a strange twist of Fate , they are communicating with each other through an old fashioned mailbox . And because one person is ahead of the other in time , Alex is able to see and come to know the Kate of year 2004 , except that at that point in time , she doesn't know him yet . It's one of the usual story techniques used to work an emotional reaction from an audience , and here , it's executed perfectly too , as they work towards a reunion meeting in the year 2006 , then 2008 . Good things , ought to wait , no ? Eagle eyed viewers though , will spot a key plot revelation early in the movie , and will be able to unravel the entire plot thereafter . However this probably wouldn't mar the enjoyment of the film , as the focus will be on how the story gets told , and admittedly , that's the draw which turned out fine , until the end where the film decides to go heck with the time travel crutch it has to rely on . Modern day stuff and devices are not included , like email and cameras , as modes of communication between the lovers , which will obviously remove a lot of romanticism from the movie , and shorten the duration too . To fill time in what could essentially be a short movie , and to vary the kind of scenes instead of the usual voice-over communications and reading of letters , there is a subplot involving Alex's dad ( played by veteran Christopher Plummer ) . The Lake House , in my opinion , is a reasonably wonderful romance movie to take a date too . It's full of clichés , warm moments , and enough tension built up towards the end to satisfy , and with that plot loophole , provide enough material for you and your date to discuss it over .
A Nutshell Review : Confessions of a Shopaholic	Welcome to the Isla Fisher show , where despite her diminutive size she holds court throughout and I thought she's finally getting the recognition she deserves in being able to marquee a film herself . One cannot forget how she burst onto the scene in The Wedding Crashers as the psychotic stalker after Vince Vaughn , and from there some other bit parts like those in The wedding Daze , and one of my favourites from last year , Definitely , Maybe . She has this indescribable aura , that goofy grin , and that incredible perfect timing for physical comedy , without looking stupid . One can easily dismiss Confessions of a Shopaholic as just another chick flick , and its premise is nothing not already attempted by the East ( in the film The Shopaholics starring Cecilia Cheung before her fall from grace ) , even though this film is based on a best selling novels by Sophie Kinsella . It's an interesting illness that Rebecca Bloomwood ( Fisher ) suffers from , where she lives a Jackyl and Hyde lifestyle , having fashion labels as close friends whom she addresses intimately by first names , and owns plenty of clothes , shoes , and enough accessories that can fill her entire room . Her Hyde hears mannequins at shop windows call out to her , and interaction with animated objects is just part of her everyday life . Hyde too comes with a magic ( credit ) card that grants instant happiness delivered as soon as a magnetic swipe at the cashier's . But her Dr Jackyl is what makes the film a draw actually , because in times like this of economic hardship , it just hits home the fact that quick credit is the path to the shambles that many would readily share their experience . Joining a financial magazine as a stepping stone toward her real objective in writing for a fashion mag in the same umbrella of publishers , Rebecca soon finds herself making the best use of her opportunity in combining her zilch knowledge in finance with the pizazz and flair she has for fashion , and writes under the moniker of The Girl In The Green Scarf , dispensing some real life financial advice that even a layman ( or woman ) would understand and make sense of . Which of course is complete irony for Rebecca , as she doesn't practice what she preaches . As we know from the onset she's someone who can't balance her financial , and is already deep in debt no thanks to her impulses to buy . The ditzy klutz teaching everyone how to live a financially responsible life , and slowly realizing her influence and clout amongst her readers , winning new fans from the woman on the streets to the suits in boardrooms . But what's a movie without an adversary ? So we have a stereotypical bean counter in Derek Smeath ( Robert Stanton ) , complete with slicked back hair , ugly glasses and a dogged attitude of a debt collector . This provides avenue for a number of laughs , besides those in the self-help therapy group , or cat fights amongst those looking for cheap bargains . Yes , there are the inevitable clichés , unfortunately . Besides Fisher's charismatic turn , she's surrounded by a supporting cast whom you can broadly categorize under the great lookers , and those with gravitas . Luke Brandon ( Hugh Dancy ) as Rebecca's object for affection ( other than fashion labels ) and Alicia ( Leslie Bibb ) as a long legged rival belong to the former , not very interesting other than being eye candy , while the powerhouses of Kristin Scott Thomas and John Goodman bring some extra oomph in their roles as a French magazine editor ( really hamming it up ) and Rebecca's dad respectively , in addition to others like Joan Cusack and John Lithgow . The soundtrack provided extra lift too , with some of the latest pop acts contributing bubble gum tracks that will leave you tapping your feet to . Confessions of a Shopaholic treads a fine balance between fluffy entertainment and a film with a strong message of what really matters in a materialistic world like ours . Friends and family come first , in addition to an everyday careful examination of needs versus wants . Sure there's no need to watch the film , but you know you just want to . Enjoy this rom-com , and girls will find the numerous outfits here a thrill to drool over . At least those in my screening did !
A Nutshell Review : My Name is Fame	My friend Richard has lent me the VCD in the last week of 2006 , has constantly raved about it , but it took me this long to finally pop it into the player . Not that I'm not heeding his recommendation , but a whole slew of events and bad time management prevented me from watching it in 2006 . Nonetheless I just did , and boy , I've got no regrets watching it ! Of late , there have been many movies which hit the VCD / DVD shelves without having a whiff at the theatres . My Name is Fame is one of them , starring HK veteran actor Lau Ching Wan in a role all too familiar with the has-beens of the industry . He plays Fai , an actor who doesn't compromise his acting beliefs , and doesn't mince his words when it comes to criticizing the industry - be it fellow actors , directors , the scripts , and even the crew . His ideal morals on the state of the industry are subtle digs at the real deal , in an industry where looks are championed over true abilities . It is no wonder that , without being blessed with idol looks , and given his attitude , he soon finds himself in the doldrums of the industry despite being an award winning actor . Yes , both the industry and the public are fickle creatures . While helping his ex-wife , he chances upon an ingénue Faye ( played by Chinese actress Huo Si-Yan ) , who impresses him with her raw talent and energy , coupled with a gung ho spirit . Without a doubt , he unwittingly takes her under his wing , becoming her manager , honing her craft , as well as seeking out true , genuine opportunities for his protégé , nevermind if they happen to be bit roles , in a field where sleaze is part and parcel of the game plan . Highly protective of his charge , he finds it increasing dangerous as his emotions get the better of him , and he starts to develop feelings for her . Sounds familiar ? Yes actually , the basic plot followed similarly to Innocent Steps , where a has-been wallowing in self pity looks to a rising star , grooming her for greater heights , at the same time rediscovering oneself and one's passion , while at the same time falling in love . However , for movie buffs , this one would tickle your funny bone at the same time as Fai unleashes his barbs against those in the industry . Some concerns highlighted were familiar grounds , especially those on sleaze , while others are reflective pieces about the current state of things . Making plenty of appearances here in the movie are has-beens themselves , or rather , those that have taken a backseat and faded slowly from the limelight , like Ekin Cheng and the Grasshoppers . See if you can spot many more actors and premise of movies adapted and put on screen here . But the gig belonged to Lau Ching Wan in his earnest portrayal , and the chemistry with co-star Huo Si-Yan is fabulous . Oh yes , having a pretty face helped loads too . The film industry isn't all glamour . There are plenty of hard work put into making a movie , and for someone looking for that big break , a certain amount of luck , plenty of contacts , the willingness to start from the bottom and plough in lots of hard work , seem like a recipe for a chance at success . Then again , which career doesn't start off in a similar fashion ? Recommended stuff ! The VCD comes with 2 audio tracks , one in Cantonese and the other in Mandarin , though I suspect that in the Cantonese track , Huo had her lines voiced over by someone else . It sure didn't sound natural .
A Nutshell Review : Dasepo Naughty Girls	The myriad of colours , song and dance all bring about a very madcap feel to Dasepo Naughty Girls , based on an internet comic strip . In essence a series of short stories or skits woven together , it tells the story of the students of No Use High , a multi-religious schools where monks , nuns , priests , and atheists all study common general subjects under one roof . The opening credits sequence had brought a smile to my face , and throughout the movie , the injection of song and dance made Dasepo Naughty Girls resemble Grease , albeit weaker in the flow of story lines and subplots , and of course not as polished , at times disjointed even with weak transitions . Other than that , the movie does live up to its being " naughty " , and is thoroughly cheeky with its bizarre multitude of characters - like the girl with a " poverty " doll sticking behind her back , an exchange student from Switzerland , the mysterious principal , a one eyed cyclops , a cross dresser , a girl born with a male member , and the list goes on . Most of the skits had the usual expected punchlines to its scenes , no doubt similar in style and delivery like the 80s Hong Kong " mo-lei-tau " comedies with sexual innuendos . However , it's breezy and light , and without a doubt , it fulfils the goal of being pure entertainment .
A Nutshell Review : Promised Land	Promised Land is one part of the so-called Borders Trilogy that Amos Gitai has crafted , the other two being Free Zone and Disengagement . In this film , he tackles the issue of women trafficking across borders between Egypt and Israel , in which there seems to be no problems , obstacles or conflict between the peoples of both sides engaged in this illegal trade , which still persists , with various filmmakers around the world taking on the issue head on in their respective geographies , in films such as Lilya 4-ever and Your Name is Justine . This film can be broken down , I believe , into three parts , and on the whole it's like Gitai taking the audience on a journey to witness first hand the ordeal that the female victims are put through . The shaky cam technique helped in putting oneself there in the first person perspective , though it could be somewhat unsettling , as if the perspective and point of view seem to come from being one of the perpetrators of the trade , being able to partake in , yet only standing by like an eyewitness , but unable to reach out and help the girls . It's not a documentary , but the effect made it look like one , with conversations up close , and plenty of tight shots choosing to disorientate the viewer , just like how the victims are suffering , as they are moved constantly from place to place in hurried fashions , under the blanket of night , trekking across deserts to their final destination , which at the end of the film , you wonder just exactly where you have ended up in . One scene that'll definitely stir some upsetting emotions , is how the women get herded up and inspected like cattle , having their assets exposed and prodded , chided , stripped of their dignity and clothes , while listening to an auction going around them for the best price from the highest bidder . Before that the girls do look as if they're clueless about their impending ordeal , until it's too late . The second act dealt with an underground club of sorts , which brings the entire film to the one hour mark . Here the girls are prepared , again in quite undignified terms of being hosed down with water to clean themselves , akin to being a prisoner ( well actually yes ) , and the first step toward their sexual slavery , including making up to beautify themselves for their clientèle later . As mentioned , again the audience is put in the spot , standing by to watch but unable to do anything about it . Perhaps yet again we're thrust into the spotlight , because I think the message is clear that should there be no demand , the supply would naturally dry up . I suppose this approach here is like getting people to swear off meat , to varying degrees of success , by having the person witness how meat is being slaughtered and prepared . Now the third act I believe was pure Gitai genius , though it may irk many to think , that's it ? I had very much enjoyed the ending of Free Zone , and this could rival that as being equally powerful . Without giving anything away here , I felt that on one hand the plight of the women were raised , and there doesn't seem to be anything in sight that could rescue them . Then comes that major event that brings us up and about , presenting an opportunity to be grasped and exploited . It isn't impossible of course , given the environment Israel finds itself in from time to time . On the other hand , the Deus Ex Machina approach here may not go down well in being something like a cop out of a finale . But if you dwell on it deeper , it's the honest truth that there's simply no quick and easy solution to have it solved , especially not on film , hence the approach that unless some form of miracle happens , we're not going to see the problem disappear anytime soon . Promised Land is one long process from beginning to end that hopes to elicit some response from the audience in either raising their awareness of the problem outside of their comfort zones , or for those who are fueling the demand side of things , to perhaps stop and think if they're contributors to a totally inhuman and undignified process . Oh , and fans of Rosamund Pike who might be drawn to the film because of her presence , you're likely to be disappointed as she only as a very limited supporting role in the film .
A Nutshell Review : Mr . Woodcock	" Take a lap ! " " Set of 10 ! " With a name like W-o-o-d-c-o-c-k ( roll it off your tongue slowly for maximum effect ) , you'd have expect the jokes to come fast and furious about the appendage . Well there are , however , the best parts of Mr Woodcock are not the sexual innuendos , but come from the various gymnasium scenes , where Jasper Woodcock ( Billy Bob Thorton ) the PE teacher runs his classes like a sadistic drill sergeant , and all the misfits tremble in fear and loathe as he puts them through the paces , with physical , mental and emotional abuse dished out in deadpan manner . The filmmakers know this , and set the bar high enough from the get go , but only for the movie to spiral in the general southwards direction . Thirteen years after his unforgettable years of growing up under Mr Woodcock's insults , John Farley ( Seann William Scott ) becomes a renowned self help guru and published a bestseller called " Letting Go : How to Get Past Your Past " , because it takes one successful loser to teach the rest how to move on . During a journey back home where you're hit with a barrage of literally corny jokes , John realizes to his horror that his mother Beverly ( Susan Sarandon ) is now dating Mr Woodcock , and he makes it his mission to dissuade her from giving him a new stepdad , one who has been the bane of his childhood . That basically becomes the premise of the movie , and a highly predictable one at that . You'll see from a mile away every conceivable plot development coming toward you , and it doesn't help that the short run time of under 90 minutes probably meant some material were reserved for the DVD release . You can tell by some of the continuity errors , helped in no part by John's bad haircut episode . Billy Bob Thorton owns the movie as Woodcock , delivery his deliciously acidic remarks with aplomb . Alpha-male type roles are nothing new to Thorton , and bullying or whipping losers to shape are part of the game , just like School for Scoundrels . And here he plays the unapologetic teacher with EQ problems , taking perverse delight in seeing his charges suffer . Sean William Scott is better known unfortunately for his loud and over the top Stifler from the American Pie movies , but given a rather muted character like John Farley , he fades away quicker than you can spell l-o-s-e-r . Susan Sarandon rounds up the lead cast as the woman caught between two men , and frankly I thought it was like an extension of her mother's role in Elizabethtown . Look out for more Sarandon in an upcoming movie called Enchanted , which takes the mickey out of a Disney movie . Most of the other supporting cast like Amy Poehler and Ethan Suplee got wasted , with the former being a self-professed alcoholic Barbie doll , while the other a fanatic who had read John's book 900 times and counting . Mr Woodcock isn't laugh out loud or laugh a minute , but it has its moments . Sadly , most of the best bits made their way to the trailers , making the movie seem like an empty shell . And given the editing fiasco of late , Mr Woodcock suffers from censorship too , with what I thought was just verbal expressions of ecstasy being snipped off and left on the cutting room floor . Pity .
A Nutshell Review : The Game Plan	American football team Boston Rebels ' star quarterback Joe Kingman ( The Rock ) has only two loves in his life - Football and Elvis Presley . Like all successful sports superstars at the top of their game , he's living the good life , with his swanky penthouse apartment fitted with the latest luxuries , a sportster that screams " Mo Jo ( e ) " , and endless parties with beautiful women . But alas one fine day he finds little Peyton Kelly ( Madison Pettis ) at his doorstep , claiming to be his daughter , and thus putting the brakes in his fast life . It's convenient to start weaving woeful family drama and comedy about the complete opposites being struck by Fate to live under the same roof . As the trailers would have suggested , everything comes off quite predictably , and at times you feel that such scenes where the young girl tosses Kingman's life upside down , to be a little too contrived , and mostly having fall flat at its attempts to be funny . When funny doesn't work , it switches gears to cute . However , The Game Plan possesses a certain charm , helped in loads without a doubt by the charisma of Dwayne The Rock Johnson . WWE entertainers perform their craft perfectly in the wrestling ring , but extremely few have made the transition to the big screen almost seamlessly . Dwayne Johnson happens to be one of the lucky few , with his megawatt smile and very personable demeanour , bringing him across as the big buddy you would like to hang out with . And while we know he can do action - The Scorpion King , Rundown , Walking Tall and Doom , he has shown a range of his ability through dramas like Gridiron Gang , and comedy , with his extremely hilarious turn in Be Cool . In The Game Plan , he rolls all those into one without breaking a sweat , and this movie is almost single-handedly saved from the doldrums by resting itself on his broad muscular shoulders . Gridiron Gang had American Football elements in it , though The Rock now crosses from being the coach to the star player . He's the action sports hero with trademark moves ( every respectable star would have one of those ) , the arrogant himbo who let success go into his head , and through the movie , we see a transformation to sensitive dad . What you don't see The Rock do , is best kept under wraps as probably THE BEST SCENE in this movie , which you have to watch to bear witness . Talk about extreme flexibility ! Some credit of course has to go to his co-stars in making the movie more palatable to a wider audience outside the fan base , though most of them , like Kyra Sedgwick as the bimbo , and Roselyn Sanchez as the hot latino instructor , are more caricatures without much personality injected , as expected . Madison Pettis shines in her role as the precocious kid , but sometimes she pouts too much and comes across more irritating than cute , though still managing to hold her own opposite Johnson . There are some heartwarming scenes between her and The Rock , and you'll probably be trying to hold back that teardrop . This is still a star vehicle for Dwayne Johnson , and I hope that he will not ditch his action roles for drama or comedy , given a distinct lack of action movie stars that I humbly think he can fill . We all know how Arnie fared when he dabbled with comedy before going back to his Terminator roots , or Vin Diesel for that matter when he traded stunts for the milk bottle in The Pacifier . Filled with plenty of Elvis songs ( director Andy Fickman is reportedly a fan ) that you can hear Johnson serenade with , there are enjoyable moments in The Game Plan , and its predictable Zacherie sweet messages on family , determination and the likes , will no doubt make this movie achieve a decent box office success here . As a fan , I can't wait for his debut in Get Smart , and crossing my fingers he'll be casted in the much rumored production of Shazam ! as The Big Red Cheese !
A Nutshell Review : Roger & Me	Before Farenheit and the award winning Bowling For Columbine , this is the movie that filmmaker ( director , writer , producer ) Michael Moore started off with . Filmed in his hometown of Flint , Michigan , we follow the chronicles of ( what he wants you to believe ) the town's love-hate relationship with General Motors . General Motors started off in that town , before it became the automotive giant that it is today . Michael Moore's from that town too , and start off the documentary fusing together his family's career ( most were GM staff ) together with the rise of GM . That is , until massive layoffs were made . At some points in the movie , you can't help but feel that that is the way corporations go about , worrying about their bottom line , and outsourcing jobs to the cheaper alternative . But from Moore's point of view in the movie , he's taking it from an everyday working class person's , who naturally , will not be happy with being laid off . We follow him , in his now familiar guerrilla styled interviews , to various families in Flint , to see the conditions they live in , and following the deputy sheriff to evict those who are too poor to pay their rent . His main motive in this movie , besides showing us the working class America , is actually to interview the General Motors chairman Roger Smith , and get him to go down to Flint to take a look at the situation himself . Naturally , being a new independent filmmaker with no credentials , he's being turned away each time he's at the GM head office attempting to make his way to the 14th floor . Staking out the chairman's regular haunts did not rake in any results , but it's kinda hilarious in the canned response that he gets each time he engages with a spokesperson . State officials and their seemingly enthusiastic attempts in lifting Flint out of its depression , like getting evangelists to bless the town out of its current mood , and trying to build its tourism industry , while in good faith , somehow became ineffective , and of course , subtly laughed at . It's seriously not a bad first attempt , sprinkled with the style , humour and satire that you'd come to expect from a Michael Moore movie .
A Nutshell Review : Little Buddha ( 1993 )	I haven't seen much of director Bernardo Bertolucci's films , the only one in which I could recall vividly was The Last Emperor . In Little Buddha , Bertolucci attempted to tell the story of Siddhartha , Buddha himself , but somehow I felt it was a bit too little , as this film also told a separate story about a reincarnated Lama . Bridget Fonda and Chris Isaak star as the Conrad couple Lisa and Dean , whose son Jesse is believed to be a reincarnation of a Lama from Bhutan . This led to a visit by the Lama's disciple Lama Norbu , who introduces Buddhism to the Conrad family . However , he's not sure if Jesse is the one , but indications have made the case strong . The tale takes all of them back to Bhutan where they meet up with another 2 potential candidates , and contemplate just who was the actual reincarnate . At the same time , the story of the origins of Buddha is weaved into the narrative , which was what appealed to me when watching this movie . I am not an expert in Bhuddist studies , but I felt that the story was well told , and the cinematography for this segment , just wondrously majestic . I believe many at that time balked at Bertolucci when he casted Keanu Reeves in the role of Siddhartha , as he was better known for his surfer dude image . But I thought Reeves did credibly well , and suffered for his art in making a credible Prince , though some would cringe at this attempt to speak with an accent . Buddhism doesn't get shoved down your throat , so for those who are staunch in their respective religions , no worries , this movie doesn't attempt to be preachy . It makes interesting the journey to Nirvana and Enlightenment , through the Middle Way , and I would say it would make interesting general knowledge ( I am not vouching on the accuracy as I can't ) in which to build upon . Perhaps what I felt was a let down was the other major segment on the search for the Lama reincarnate , as there were minor sub-plots which got introduced but not further developed . I would be more interested to learn about Siddhartha's path to Nirvana in more detail through film , but probably that's another story for another filmmaker to make .
A Nutshell Review : Hero	Movies based on successful television series are natural progressions to make a quick buck , mainly because of the more instant box office dollars it gets translated to . But what I apprehend the most , is when the approach is to not worry whether non-television series followers would be able to get it , so it decides not to afford the time to explain matters , expecting the bulk of the audience to be coming with background knowledge from the series . When you are one of the series ' followers , you'll make camp on the side to forgo previous cinematic time on explanation so that the pace does not get slowed , but if you are not , then you'll probably cry foul , not that you don't get to enjoy the movie though , but are lusting after a more complete experience . For example , the X-Files movie requires pre-requisite knowledge , as did the Japanese movie Mushishi . But there are some which still managed to only require the most basic level of understanding , and to use a Japanese reference , I enjoyed the Bayside Shakedown movies tremendously . Did I enjoy Hero ? Sure , but there were enough moments in the movie where you can't help but want to pull your hair in frustration , especially when it comes to bit appearances by minor characters , whom you'll most certainly deem important enough to warrant significant subplot time in the narrative . Hero is similar to structure with Bayside Shakedown , in that on the surface , it contains one major plot , with the rest of the supporting subplots inevitably linked to the one big one , thereby giving reason for the ensemble cast to exist . Takuya Kimura , whom we last saw as a samurai in Yoki Yamada's Love and Honor , returns to his 2001 television role as Public Prosecutor Kohei Kruyu , a devoted go-getter who is unorthodox in his ways ( aren't they all ? ) . Assisting him is his trustworthy legal clerk Amamiya Maiko ( Takako Matsu ) , and together they take on a rather routine open-and-shut case involving manslaughter , especially with a written confession provided . But there's more than meets the eye to the supposedly simple case , and soon enough , they find their legal battle spiral to involve scandals of government officials , and have to go up against a top legal eagle who used to be on the payroll of the Public Prosecutor office . Bayside Shakedown provided some criticisms to the police system , highlighting the struggles and battles between the bureaucrats in the department , and those on the beat handling day to day , routine and sometimes mundane police work . I thought Hero could have upped the ante if it debated on the judicial system , providing some insight on how things work rather than just a basic introduction . It lapsed into moralistic viewpoints should this be a perfect world with perfect systems , and very often reminded the audience that Justice is Blind with the frequent shots of a statue of Justice holding up the scales . But not everything's serious and full of legal jargon and mumbo-jumbo . Credit has to be given in weaving a more than compelling investigative and legal drama , with romantic tension between Amamiya and Kohei , as well as plenty of comedy . Those television sell-a-vision ads are so funny they are a highlight in the movie ( I'm not sure if these are regular features in the television series ? ) , and it managed to work into its narrative an explanation of its absence for 6 years since the television series ended , and the characters naturally being aged . Familiar to me in this movie are the actors Hiroshi Abe and Korean actor Lee Byung-hun , who has so minor a role ( combined screen time of less than 5 minutes ) , I'm not sure why the trailer had to hype about it , rather than to keep it a guessing game ( is he ? or isn't he ? ) . However , that is not to say that Hero is a bad film . It still offers decent entertainment , especially for those who are fans of the many stars it has in its ensemble , and for those who like this genre of legal investigative movies . Recommended .
A Nutshell Review : A Bittersweet Life	This is a revenge movie , pure and simple . When it comes to this genre , the protagonist usually has some injustice ( loosely used here ) done unto him , and therefore unleashes hell upon those who incurred his wrath , who of course , failed to finish him off in the first place . Sun-woo ( Lee Byung-hun ) is a hotel manager . Or so he seems . On the surface , he's calm , cool and collected . But step out of line , he brings upon his fury without remorse , and without sympathy . His cockiness earns him no admirers , but he gives his utmost loyalty towards his boss , President Kang . He leads a lonely existence without friends , and in his latest mission , strikes a forbidden friendship with his prey that led to his ostracizing from the clan he belongs to . Relying on his personal judgement , in contradiction with his boss's , he consciously interpreted his mission ambiguously , and this led to his downfall . In the mob , as a servant , you do not think , but carry out orders like a faithful dog . Such is his life for seven years , until now . As with revenge films , those who go against you must die , and you soon find yourself up against impossible odds , and with incredible luck . At times the movie stretches its realism to the limit , but for the purpose of good violent fun . The violence is gratuitous - shootings up close , bleeding by the buckets , hand-breaking , fist-fighting , at times making the audience cringe at too much crimson . But thumbs up for the action pieces , which were well choreographed , especially the escape fight scene ( you must learn , never to give a few minutes to a hit-man ) , and the climatic shoot out finale . Poetry in motion some might add , at times shot like John Woo's slow-motion style with classical music in the background . Various bad characters are up for our anti-hero's dispatch , and you'll find yourself rooting that he does so with as much pain as possible . On the other end of the spectrum , this film also had incredible amounts of silence and non-action , which punctuated between the action sequences well . Sort of like a breather - the calm before the next storm . The relationship element between Sun-woo and Hee-soo ( Shin Min-a ) however was never fully explored . It was hinted that the cause of the rift between servant and master was the woman , but because of the lack of explicit narrative and dialogue , this was never brought across in a clear manner , and left open to interpretation . Another element that somewhat fell flat was the forced attempts to inject humour with bumbling characters . Felt a bit out of place and the pacing suffered a tad bit . Nonetheless , as a revenge movie , this film delivered . But there's somewhat a nagging thought in me that it could , and should have reached its full potential given the superb cast , stylish action and of course , bloody violence .
A Nutshell Review : Painted Skin	Based upon the classic literature of Liao Zai , Painted Skin is an adaptation of one of the stories that dwell on fox spirits . If you're someone expecting either a supernatural spook fest , or an amalgamation of ghosts and kung fu , you might be disappointed to find out that it's actually a romance through and through , with complicated relationships all around that you can weave a complex web of love and lust amongst the players involved . Chen Kun plays Wang Sheng , a general whose army recently overrun the camp of a group of barbarians . In their battle , he rescues a beautiful girl from the grasp of the enemy , and brings her home out of pity and suggestive lust , given that she looks like Zhou Xun . OK , so Zhou Xun plays Xiao Wei , who unknowing to everyone else , is a fox spirit ( touted always as beautiful beings in their human form ) with an appetite for human hearts in order to maintain her beauty and youth . Thus begins a tussle for General Wang's heart by both Xiao Wei and Vicky Zhao's Pei Rong , who is the dutiful and demure wife of Wang Sheng . Pei Rong is indeed wary and beginning to suspect Xiao Wei's supernatural abilities when a spate of killings surface with her arrival , but with no proof , Xiao Wei starts to sow discord between the man and wife in order to try and become the new Mrs Wang . It's quite an interesting attempt through the characters to tell of the varying degrees and types of love , one of possession in Xiao Wei's ruthless means to reach her objective , and one of sacrificing for the love and well being of the other half , as established through Pei Rong's selfless courage . But that's not all . Throw in Donnie Yen as an ex-general Pang Yong , who also shares the hots for Pei Rong , and one time rival of Wang Sheng for her affections , a bumbling lowly ghostbuster Xia Bin ( Sun Li ) who is in possession of a fabled mythical weapon ( opportunity to show off some special effects here , and quite a sight to behold too in its temporal usage ) and denying her affections for Pang Yong , and Qi Yuwu as a lizard spirit whose infatuation with Xiao Wei ensures that she gets her fair share of food without the need to get her hands dirty . Connected the dots yet ? Fans of Donnie Yen will probably be a tad disappointed by his limited screen appearance , and for the most parts he's either playing the joker , where his jokes will likely be lost in translation , going by the English subtitles that didn't manage to truly capture the essence of his lines , and the remaining screen time having to see him execute some action , but nothing groundbreaking and not seen before . We know what Donnie Yen can do , and perhaps in seeking some form of redemption , the story has a flashback scene where he dons armor yet again ( anyone remember the dismal result of An Empress And Her Warriors ) and does battle in a scene which Jackie Chan has already stamped his authority on . One could have expected the Gordon Chan is familiar with shooting decent action sequences , but you don't really get a lot of that in Painted Skin , save for some generic rooftop chase in the night , and a be all and end all finale where no punches got pulled , though it really got marred by all the tight shots that all you'd probably get to see is a blur . The narrative also got a little choppy in the mid section , and you do feel that a huge chunk of detail got summarized to keep it running generously under two hours , with subplots dropped that I suspect involved the growing affection and admiration between Pang Yong and Xia Bin , in order not to distract the audience from the main love triangle of Pang Yong , Xiao Wei and Pei Rong . All in all , this is recommended for Zhou Xun's face off with Zhao Wei , especially with the former playing the temptress role to perfection . The last where we saw two prominent Chinese actresses square off was between Zhang Ziyi and Gong Li in Memoirs of a Geisha . Otherwise , Painted Skin held a lot of promise , but didn't deliver that level of oomph in its final product , lapsing into mediocrity throughout .
A Nutshell Review : No Country for Old Men	The second movie watched today is also released by Paramount Vintage and Miramax , and shares with There Will Be Blood , eight Academy Award nominations , in a fight for most of the major honours . The brothers Coen's new film have been gathering wave after wave of honours , but somehow it didn't really quite work for me , despite the premise being something I would go for , and most likely to have enjoyed . Don't get me wrong though , there are again brilliant moments in the movie that I enjoyed , but on the whole , it was the unsatisfying anti-climatic finale that did it in for me , with too convenient a coincidence arising from a random act , and a frustrating interpret-it-if-you - please treatment that those who are more actively cerebral will get a field day deciphering and debating all the underlying meaning that make up the movie . Much is said about Javier Bardem's Anton Chugurh , and I'm agreeable with the nods to his understated portrayal as a modern day , flesh and bones Terminator , who's armed with a gas powered hammer gun used to send cattle to heaven , and a high powered rifle with silencer attached . His target is 2 million dollars in a suitcase , coming from a deal with Mexican druglords turn awry , which Josh Brolin's Llewelyn Moss happened to steal away when he chanced upon a zero sum game in the middle of an open plain . So it's somewhat cat and mouse chase , with Terminator Chugurh after Moss to seek out those stacks of 100 dollar greenbacks , and sending those unfortunate good natured folks to heaven / hell should they come crossing his path . But I have to admit that the gun battling duels and confrontation between Chugurh and Llewelyn are tension filled enough to leave you at the edge of your seat . If There Will Be Blood talks about money , No Country for Old Men talks about violence , or the random senselessness of it all . Through Chigurh's extremely focused quest , we become bewildered and numbed when he dispatches his victim without batting an eyelid , with little opportune of mercy being shown . As Tommy Lee Jones ' Sheriff Bell , in a supporting role as yet another jaded cop who is world weary , notes in his daily reading of the news , wacky incidents often get reported because of the help of curious onlookers , but those which often involve a crime , somehow never get the all important second look . This is not your usual narrative story with expected conventions . You come to expect something in the way the movie is built up by the Coens , but more often than not , it stops short , deliberately of course . There are some wonderful moments on its own , with scenes that are witty , and filled with a wicked sense of black humour . But ultimately , it's quite open ended for vast interpretation , and leaving you with questions that don't get answered . The ending is one of frustration for me , but come Oscar time , there isn't a doubt why this movie has been the darling of so many critical circles , and is probably expected to bag an Oscar award , or two .
A Nutshell Review : The Jacket	Based on the trailer alone , The Jacket looks like a clone of Ashton Kutcher's The Butterfly Effect , with the protagonist able to transport himself through time in the hope of changing his past / present / future , only that the premise and effect is different - the " jacket " refers to a mental patient's straitjacket . However , Jack Starks ( Adrian Brody ) is not criminally insane . Sure , he may have died once in Desert Storm , and miraculously survived , but circumstances a year later back home in a horrific homicide condemned him into an asylum . The out of body experience in this film is never explained , no whys , no hows - it seems that it's due to the effect of a cocktail of drugs administered , together with the unorthodox and experimental practice of confining the patient in the morgue's dead-body closet ( the claustrophobic effect sort of reminded me of Beatrix's in Kill Bill Vol 2 , where she was buried alive in a coffin ) . So Jack suddenly finds himself 15 years ahead in the year 2007 , where he chances upon Kiera Knightley's Jackie Price , whom he once helped on that faithful day of the homicide ( again , how he came to meet her is never explained - it just happens ) . After gaining her trust as a time-traveller / dead man " resurrected " , she helps him in a journey to discover the events that led to his apparent death in the asylum , and at the same time falling in love with her good Samaritan , while he flits in and out of future time . Also , it seems he can only travel between the two time periods , and nothing beyond either , beyond his control . As with all time-travelling films , there is always the paradox which one should never ever ponder ( it's the huge plot holes exposed if you do ) - what you know in the future , when applied in the present , surely will change the way the future is presented the next time you visit it , no ? I think only the Back To The Future trilogy dealt with this paradox in a convincing manner , and shown on screen as well . The 2 leads give convincing performances , as do the supporting cast of familiar faces like Jennifer Jason Leigh and Kris Kristofferson as doctors in the asylum . My only gripe in the local screening was the unwelcome abrupt interruption ( read : poor censor workmanship ) of the love scene between Brody and Knightley . The ending , like The Butterfly Effect , is your typical Hollywood cop-out ending , but something which I feel the audience would expect as they secretly root for the protagonist to emerge victorious . But again , given the many unexplained plot devices and an ending which still leaves you with ONE major question ( probably up to your discretion ) , this is a film that could have been a time-travel classic , but turned into one of mediocrity .
A Nutshell Review : Disengagement	For an Amos Gitai film , I thought this had the most impactive prologue amongst those that I've watched to date , which succinctly sums up the political themes that his films often explore . While it might have thrusted you right into the thick of ( in ) action , you'll soon realize that he has a tremendous ability to gift wrap his points amongst the most mundane and ordinary . A Dutch-Palestinian lady gets chatted up by a French Israeli man on a train . They share a cigarette moment , and soon realize that they have a lot more in common than they initially realized . The two strangers's chance meeting soon turn into lust / love at first sight , probably a nod in the direction that even amongst what would be perceived as the most irreconcilable groups of people , can find common ground and understanding , and kiss and make up . Only that there are those in the world like the authorities wielding some power , could make unreasonable demands to try and derail peace efforts , like that train soldier who might have stepped out of his boundary in asserting and demanding that he be listened to and complied with . Alas the movie failed to keep the pace with its wonderful opening , and for the most parts the build up to the finale sagged heavily under very dire straits stemming from an uninteresting plot which failed to capitalize on the Israeli man Uli ( Liron Levo ) whom we got introduced , but shifted its attention to the more illustrious Juliette Binoche's Ana , Uli's half sister whom he is meeting in France because of their father's demise , and to discover just what his will entailed . The story found it necessary to go through an entire backstory for nothing , only for us to know little red herring nuggets of information such as Ana's estranged relationship with her separated husband whom we do not see on screen , and that slightly incestuous ( well , not exactly ) temptations that both Uli and Ana go through , with the latter being the temptress . It tried to address issues like staying with someone who you don't love , only out of convenience , which Ana confessed to be doing , because she's a lazy soul . But in fact her character flits into mood swings one end to the other , that it's not tough to understand how unappealing she can get , good looker or not . Things start to pick up slightly midway through the film when the actual seed of the story was sown , with the reading of the deceased's will , having to instruct Ana to travel to Gaza to pass on her dad's inheritance to her abandoned daughter Dana ( Dana Ivgy ) in person . So begins a road trip for the siblings , which is convenient anyway because Uli was beginning to fade away like a side show , and his return to Israel gives him a chock load of things to do , since he's a police officer , and have been given orders , together with the army , to clear Gaza of its Israeli settlers since Israel has pulled out of the Gaza Strip . Ordering your fellow men off their plot of land and homes are never easy , and this story arc provides that " action packed " moment in Disengagement . The other thread would be of course Ana's quest in locating her daughter , like finding a needle in the perennial haystack , made more difficult because she doesn't speak the language of her countrymen . The story arcs tangent off at this point , but you know there'll definitely be moments for a collision course later in the film . Through Uli's eyes we see how their evacuation operation gets carried out , having to be compassionate , yet stern in a thankless job that involves ejecting by any means possible the settlers who are protesting their rights . One involves grabbing the people and forcing them onto chartered buses to take them back to the mainland , and on the other having heavy machinery either bulldoze everything insight , or the utilization of cranes to literally lift homes off the soil . One can imagine if one is forced away from your home at the snap of a finger , and that is definitely something difficult to swallow . Disengagement unfortunately is like a self-fulling prophecy , having the middle portion starkly dragging against the powerful prologue and finale . If only it could find a better gel to stick both ends together in a more engaging fashion .
A Nutshell Review : 49 Days	It's crazy to be doing a movie marathon of 4 movies in a row , and having 3 of which are from the horror genre . However , having completed those 3 first ( the last being Spielberg's Munich ) , they again prove that the horror genre is diverse , and all 3 are different - the mystery-thriller , the ghouls-spirits , and the slasher flick . Onwards , shall we ? This Hong Kong horror movie has 2 titles , one the Chinese one which means the rhino's horn , while the other in English refers to the seven by seven equals forty-nine days of the initial afterlife , in which the body's spirit will roam the earth before proceeding to the nether-land . And this movie actually talks about both in a rather interesting manner . It's my second Stephen Fung - Gillian Chung pairing in a movie , the first being their take on martial arts in last year's House of Fury . This time , they take on the supernatural , with Fung playing a Chinese physician who had to leave his village , wife and daughter to try and make a comeback in his medical hall business . It took him four years to build a brand , but jealous opposition got him framed and imprisoned . Gillian Chung plays his lawyer who investigates and tries to prove his innocence , yet getting entangled romantically to the leading man . Thankfully the romance bit is tossed aside midway to focus more on the mystery of the story . It's no M Night Shyamalan , but the influence from the writer-director is nonetheless heavy . The movie relies and references the mystical powers of the rhino's horn - the many uses that it has for Chinese medicine like acupuncture , and its ability when lit to see spirits . To those unfamiliar with Chinese afterlife , this movie too explains to certain depth what those forty-nine days are . To brand this film as an outright horror movie is incorrect , while it has certain standard aspects like the building of atmosphere , this movie plays more like a thriller-mystery , and its theme of Fate and Retribution . Which somehow , plays a bit like one of my favourite movies , Frequency ( Jim Caviezel-Dennis Quaid ) . While the production looks like a straight-to-television movie , the story is surprisingly above average . The spatial jumps that happen every now and then could be there for narrative sophistication , which could catch you offguard , but please hold your horses about potential plot loopholes when you notice them . I was finding fault with them , and they irritated me ( thought it was slip-shoddy work ) , but as the movie progresses , you'd come to appreciate when the loopholes are addressed . Not all though , but most , and that's good enough by me . The acting however , was below par . It's clearly a Stephen Fung vehicle considering the amount of screen time he has , but he didn't manage to flesh out his character thoroughly . Gillian Chung's role was also one-dimensional , considering that hers was a lead role too . There are plenty of smaller characters in the movie , but their roles were either to lend comic effect , or are the villains . Being a PG rated film , it's a pity this movie has its gory scenes censored . But if you're looking for a mystery-thriller with a touch of the supernatural thrown in , then this movie would be my recommendation this period .
A Nutshell Review : Kikujiro	The last Kitano Takeshi movie for the day , Kikujiro is very much unlike the previous two movies . If anyone would think that Takeshi is only famous for , and can make only violent movies , then this one would make you do an about turn . Even the narrative style is quite different from the limited few of his movies I've been exposed to . Being PG rated ( Hana-Bi was NC16 ) , the queue of those expected to watch this film was again snaking , even though most of the ( free ) tickets were already snapped up . The story centers on the deep friendship which develops between a quirky , mean and uncouth middle-aged man , and a young boy . It doesn't start off rosy , as Kikujiro ( played by Takeshi himself ) gets assigned , against his wishes , chaperon duties to assist and ensure that the young boy Masao ( Yusuke Sekiguchi ) gets to find his mother . So begins a road trip of sorts , with the duo encountering a host of situations and characters ( aren't road trips all like that ? ) The movie can be seen as two distinct halves , with the first half in my opinion the more superior portion of the film . It centers upon the journey , on the quest to seek out Masao's mother in another county . We get to follow our mismatched duo through various escapades through their hitchhiking adventures , with one involving racing amongst cyclists ( in a betting game ) , which is one of my favourite moments in the story . Everything else afterwards in this half is built up from that one incident , adding much to the comedic aspects that actually , although predictably , bring on some genuine laughs . The second half is perhaps what disappoints , with its introduction of over the top characters in 2 biker gang type guys , and a farmer . Here , the sequence of events sticks out unconvincingly , even though it's possibly trying to tug at your heartstrings and bring back memories of the days of childhood , where you have adults engaging in children's games , just to keep the children entertained . The play acting with strangers take its toil as it wore on , and became a bit of a drag with repetitive childish scenes of play acting . Takeshi isn't adorable , try as he might , and some may cringe at his " act cute " moments . Somehow Yusuke Sekiguchi , who plays Masao , doesn't seem to act cute at all , and I thought it was kind of mirroring real life - imagine between a baby and an adult , who's the one playing the fool most of the time in their interactions with each other ? Nonetheless , Kikujiro is still an admirable story on friendship , amongst the unlikeliest of couples , with Kikujiro cutting a father like figure to Masao's little child . Come to think of it , it's like a road trip movie between father and son , and the braving of odds to cement some credible ties by the time the end credits come rolling .
A Nutshell Review : Amazing Grace	Summer season means the latest blockbuster in town will take up 90 % of the screens in any multiplex , leaving little room for movies other than the highlight of the week , or be scheduled for screening in a dinghy theatre with bad screens and sound systems . Nonetheless some movies might have that one hall screening , and Michael Apted's Amazing Grace managed to squeeze past the Pirates of the Caribbean off a small hall . I was curious about the film as it offered a look behind a familiar song , which has now become a hymn naturally because of the message contained in the lyrics , written by John Newton ( Albert Finney ) . But the movie doesn't tell you that story about the writing of the song per se , much as I thought it would , but instead told of a certain William Wilberforce ( Ioan Gruffudd ) , who embarks on a political journey in 19th Century England to abolish the slave trade in Britain and her territories . As such , much time is spent in Parliament , and the wheelings and shady dealings in Pirates ' are familiar themes again in a similar timeline . William is an idealist , who's at the crossroads of his life contemplating whether to become a man of the church , or to dabble in politics , and it didn't take too long before good friend Pitt ( Benedict Cumberbatch ) , who aspires to be Prime Minister , to convince him that his quick witted brain and charismatic speeches are much needed arsenal in his campaign . And to do so , he provides William a cause to fight against , and that's slavery . For William , he's a man torn between paying lip service to God , or doing God's work to aid mankind in general . We see for the most parts in his banter with his chum Pitt , that politics and friendship do mix , on the sly of course , as they navigate through the murky waters of the House of Commons , which is somewhat an experience of sorts watching the politicians argue their points , and either supporting or bringing down bills they are opposed to . The film centers around William , his motivations , energies , illness , love life , almost the whole works , while John Newton as a character managed just a few interactive scenes . The song does get featured a few times in the movie , but I thought the better rendition was when Gruffudd sings it solo and with great gusto ( he has an amazing singing voice ) . You can understand it better as to how it's used in the context of slavery abolishment , and the narrative's told rather as a matter of fact . The introductory act does get a little confusing , especially with its shifting timelines which are spliced together quite haphazardly , with only Gruffudd's hairstyle as a guide when the titles disappear . Used to tell the backstory of his romance with future wife Barbara ( Romola Garai ) , don't expect a great love story weaved into the movie , as it actually acted as a subplot instead in its vanilla plain account . Given it's inspired by true incidents ( of course with certain liberties taken ) , Amazing Grace does seem to indulge in itself in its last act toward the inevitable end . But as a choice of sorts to break away from too much summer blockbuster hype , this movie does provide some valuable lessons to take away , especially that of never giving up when the tough gets going . Oh , and Youssou N'Dour has a bit role here , see if you can spot him !
A Nutshell Review : Fracture	If you were salivating at the prospect of Ryan Gosling and Rosamund Pike getting hot and heavy under the sheets as suggested by the trailer , well , just so you know , all those uber sexy scenes got snipped off . Not that it's the work of the local film censors , as it's passed clean without cuts here , and watching the film transition between the scenes , it's gone without a hint of a bad edit . Somehow it's good to rid of the distractions to focus on the much touted cat and mouse game between Sir Anthony Hopkins ' character and Gosling's , vis-a-vis a face off between a multi-award winning actor , and a young up and coming rising star . Anthony Hopkins ' Ted Crawford seemed very much like Hannibal Lecter , no matter how anyone , even Hopkins , tries to disprove the notion . Perhaps it's after the recent dismal and disappointing Hannibal Rising , that audiences would do just anything to suspend disbelief and imagine it to be Lecter's return to the big screen done right , with that glint in the eye and the wry smile . I won't be surprised that someone in the crowd would have half expected Crawford to eat his wife after shooting her in the head . And Hopkins would have to showcase his acting chops once again , having done so with his Hannibal going up against the likes of luminaries like Judie Foster , Julianne Moore , Edward Norton , and now , Ryan Gosling . Gosling too had his fair share of playing a character obsessed with committing the perfect murder . In 2002's Murder by Numbers , he and peer Ben Chaplin did just that , and had to contend with Sandra Bullock's detective . Here , Gosling crosses over to the DA's office , his Willy Beachum a high flying scheming legal eagle who can't wait to spread his wings and soar over to the private sector for the fatter paycheck . Given his successes and reputation for wins , he takes on the State versus Ted Crawford case , in what is believed to be a simple open-and-shut legal suit , with signed confessions and what not , only to have his arrogance serve his downfall , and his redemption at eating the humble pie . As the old Chinese proverb says , " the older ginger is hotter " . Courtroom dramas are nothing new to director Gregory Hoblit , having helmed films like Primal Fear and Hart's War . However , those who are expecting sparks to fly between defendant and prosecutor in the courtroom will be a tad disappointed . Hopkins and Gosling spend too little time together sharing the same scene and playing off each other's energies , and perhaps rightly so , otherwise everyone will be thinking it's yet another Hannibal tale . The spotlight is firmly set on Gosling , as we see him struggle against being soundly beaten by his adversary , and the fight against succumbing to temptation ( OK , so he gave in and did it with his boss , but that we don't really see . So . . . ) . His Beachum is all about the seeking of redemption , in doing what's right , to try and put things right , nevermind if the result doesn't turn out the way it should be . There are a number of themes put forth in Fracture , some of which are topical , even to our own city state . Things like the lure of the private sector and that distinct smell of money , the imminent departure of the civil servant etc . What I thought was intriguing enough is the entire perversion of justice , laws , and the exploitation of loopholes which Crawford milks to perfection , that technically one can really walk away from a crime if you do your sums right . Those who are alert might find the revelation a bit wanting , and it's a full circle kinda lesson learnt about being overconfident leaning towards arrogance . It sets up the fall perfectly , but becomes anti-climatic given the dogged need for closure and doing so in too quick a time and coincidence . Then again , you might also consider that perhaps this is the most politically correct , face saving way to settle a stand off between a veteran , and a promising star .
A Nutshell Review : Flightplan	It's Panic Room in the skies ! This is the second inflight entertainment ( pardon the jab ) movie from Hollywood this year , the other being Wes Craven's recent Red Eye . Jodie Foster again plays a vulnerable yet tough as nails mum , who is on a flight with her six year old daughter from Berlin to New York , taking with them the body of their recently deceased husband / father in a coffin ( in the cargo hold of course ) . However , before you can taste the airline food , her daughter is missing , and Mommy goes frantic in trying to look for her . But it seems that nobody on the airplane has seen the little girl , and it's all up to Mom to discover just what the heck is happening 30000 feet in the air , Of course things are made more difficult in a post 911 world of aviation , with bulletproof vault like cockpit doors , US Marshalls , and edgy passengers . The first 5 minutes of the film is kinda confusing , as time is juxtaposed and not really explained much , besides trying to show the relationship between husband and wife , and suggesting that the tragedy might have led to Foster's deteriorated mindset . But if compared to Red Eye , certainly this film takes the honour of being in the air a lot more , and on a state-of-the-art ( read : fictitious airplane and airline ) jumbo plan with many nooks and crannies . Rather than settle for an obvious villain upfront , this movie opted for more subtlety , which leaves you guessing who , and definitely want to know the why , though I must warn you by the time you're told the why , you might roll your eyes at probable absurdity ( i . e . why go through all that trouble ? ) Big names are attached to this project , and we all know that Foster is aptly able to carry a movie on her own . Joining her are Peter Sarsgaard ( last seen in Skeleton Key ) , and Sean " Boromir " Bean as the Captain of the flight . Erika Christensen stars as one of the flight attendants without many lines and much to do ( pity ) , and Kate Beahan came across as a Jennifer Lopez-Sarah Jessica Parker clone as one of the leading attendants . POTENTIAL SPOILERS Watch this film and you'll know why many flight attendants were so upset with the roles - they would all be out of a job if they behaved like their screen counterparts . Also , stereotypes are abound with the Arab passengers being accused of being part of the kidnap - hands up those of you who thought they had something to do with the dirty deed . And as if to rub salt into the wound , there was one American character who was all ready to pounce onto them . SPOILERS END The first half of the film built up the entire premise successfully , only to be brought back to normalcy by the usual Hollywood wham-bang action in a claustrophobic airplane . But nonetheless a thriller which satisfies up until the creative closing credits .
A Nutshell Review : Zameen	Zameen doesn't restraint itself in its exploration of transnational terrorism , and doesn't mince its words in the inclusion of Pakistan in state sponsored terrorism by radical army elements , in their support of the mujahedeens battling in Pakistan Owned Kashmir . Being a fictional piece of work , the movie works on two fronts , that by the army in its fight to capture a wanted terrorist Baba Zaheer ( Mukesh Tiwari ) , and on the home front , where 4 operatives enter India to do their dastardly deed . Ajay Devgan stars as Colonel Ranvir Singh Ranawat , a soldier of vast experience in counter - terrorism operations , and his latest capture is of Baba of the Al Tahir terrorist group . The movie begins with a ra-ra patriotic song , before launching into full scale war . But the plot thickens when Baba's men plot to rescue Baba , and in the process bring disgrace to India . Not if supercop ACP Jai ( Abhishek Bachchan ) can help it , in his no-nonsense style of high octane action . Adding to the mix is Bipasha Basu's Nandini , wife of Jai , serving as an air stewardess , and as the complimentary love token who provides the cause for some songs , you'll more or less figure out what the terrorist plot will involve . The action might look a little cartoony and staged , but it still brings about some element of fun for action fans . Having the two male leads from different uniformed groups also serve to highlight the difference in tactics employed , and eyebrows will surely be raised if you're an advocate of human rights . Torturing during interrogation is nothing new , and to see the way they do it , you'll be pretty surprised , though my personal opinion is that sometimes these tactics would have to work - no point fighting with one hand tied behind your back , and these guys are hiding behind civilians and going after innocent soft targets anyway . And besides pointing fingers at Pakistan on state sponsored terrorism , the movie also points its fingers and pokes fun at the inept Indian politicians who have a total lack of integrity , and are the worst kind of humans around - selfish , full of hot airs and empty promises , and dumb . Also , it points out on the terrorists ' hijacking of religion to further their cause in the name of " jihad " , and such scenes are usually dramatic for effect , and at times infused with an action scene , like the fist battle between Ranvir and Baba , representing a country and the subversive elements it faces . All in all , it plays for entertainment , while pounding its fist in the air with patriotism swelling . And hey , Abhishek Bachchan did attempt to sing a few lines from that Krabhi Krabhi song I last heard in Yasmin Ahmad's Gubra . Code 9 DVD by Rainbow Films comes in anamorphic widescreen , but the visual transfer is mediocre , seemed to have been done from an old VHS-quality like source . The audio though is clear , presented in Dolby Digital 5 . 1 . There are only English subtitles available , and scene selection comes in 19 chapters . There are no other extras except for a section where you can zoom into each of the 4 songs in the movie - Title Song , Tere Sang , O Mitwa and Pyar Tera Dilli Ki .
A Nutshell Review : The Number 23	Joel Schumacher re-teams with Jim Carrey in the latter's latest attempt to tangent away from the comedic genre , trying to seal himself as being capable of pulling off a dramatic role time and again . I thought he had decent outings with The Majestic and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ( my favourite 2004 movie ) , though I must admit his brooding , obsessive character in The Number 23 totally wiped out traces of that trademarked smirk off his face . You don't see him smile in this movie . Carrey plays Walter Sparrow , an Animal Control Department employee with a beautiful functional family , who on his birthday , was given an independently published book by his wife ( Virginia Madsen ) called " The Number 23 " . He reads too much into it , and suddenly , everything else in his life adds up to this magic number , fueling an obsession of trying to get down to the bottom of the mystery , and to locate the book's writer , who seemed to have understood and written about Sparrow's own life . Running parallel to the main narrative , like a story within a story , is that from the book itself , where a man known as Fingerling ( also played by Carrey , with mean body tattoos ) , pens down his thoughts like a diary , as a detective undergoing some strange series of investigations pertaining to the number . You can argue that the characters in the book look like their " real life counterparts " , because that's probably an angle you adopt when you read a novel - trying to picture the character in real life , and in this case , Sparrow sees very much of himself in Fingerling , and plucks the others in his life , into the other characters . Naturally there is a reason to all the madness , as the story on the number works its way to the finale . In fact , you'll probably guess the outcome midway in the movie , though you'll wonder about the exact ending , dwelling on morality , a what-if you can cover up your mistakes , or to choose to own up kind of situation . It's quite refreshing an idea , with the story centered on the plausibility of conspiracy theories involving the number 23 . In fact , there are interesting associations with the number , however , this becomes tired during the times when it is contrived - you know how when dates and times involving the fictional characters suddenly all add up . It's too much of a coincidence . But no doubt you'll have fun in trying to discover the easter eggs of the number 23 , when it appears in the frame of the movie . There are so many , you'll begin to lose count . The special effects and editing also play an important part in the movie , transitioning between current and events with scenes from the book . The opening credits were reminiscent of Se7en's , and the entire mood of the film was dark and mysterious enough . It's a reasonable mystery thriller , so long as you don't poke your nose too far deep into the number 23 . Remember , it's all fiction , and for all intents and purposes to make the movie work , just take it as it is , superficially at face value . The only pitiable gripe about the screening here is , in the name of profits and a general PG rating , much of the crucial scenes , some involving important snippets of dialogue , were left on the editing room floor - for reasons of nudity , violence and bloody gore . So if you're a stickler for such things , and mind you the censoring was badly done , you might want to opt for the DVD instead . Be sure your sin will find you out - Numbers 32 : 23
A Nutshell Review : Tekkonkinkreet	Tekkonkinkreet opens this year's Animation Nation festival , running from today until 1 Dec 07 , showcasing a selection of animated feature films , shorts and documentaries from around the world . Last year , the festival scored a coup in having Paprika screened just after its Japan premiere I believe , and had the noir styled Renaissance screened too . This year , both Tekkonkinkreet and the highly acclaimed 5 Centimeters Per Second were sold out in days when tickets when on sale , and it's a pity I may not be able to catch the latter due to conflict in schedules . Nonetheless , Tekkonkinkreet lived up to its hype , although I found the story to be a little too perplexing for my liking . I guess with Japanese anime , some come with a huge dose of the fantastical , and you might not catch all in one screening , leading to longevity as you discover something new each time you view the movie . The story centers on 2 orphans , Black and White , who are essentially the Cat clan , guarding their city Treasure Town from perceived external threats . But they soon find that the big boys such as the Yakuza are slowly muscling their way in to establish money spinning business in the form of theme parks ( heh ) , and inevitably discover they are within the crosshairs of a major turf war . The attention paid to detail is simply amazing , as it seems like not a pixel on the canvas was wasted . Treasure Town itself is a sight to behold , with its dizzying levels that don't seem to end , and the camera playfully whizzing through buildings , bridges , nooks and crannies giving sense to claustrophobia . It's like Gotham City , only brighter , messier , and of course , without the Dark Knight , now instead , having Black and White play vigilante , Batman and Robin style . Being just boys , they possess ( and here's where its fantastical ) superhuman skills , putting martial arts swordsman to shame with their ability to scale buildings with the ease of a simple leap . Yes , our boys have skills like the Yamakasi , only that it's magnified ten thousand times . The set action pieces are excitingly crafted with excellent sound effects and design going into overdrive . The action pieces are spaced out quite well , starting with the satisfying chase sequence with Dusk and Dawn , with the flight-for-your-life battles with robotic assassins , and topped off with the urban legend Minotaur justifying his status . In between the fights are the quieter moments of course , with subplots that put the spotlight on the myriad of Yakuza characters , and the brotherly love shared between Black and White , who share a dream of an idyllic life at the beach house , where they can live in peace from the unnecessary bustle of the city , and from the trouble that comes looking for them . Based on the manga by Taiyo Matsumoto , I suspect there being a need to read up and do some research in order to appreciate this movie more . Akin to a cyberpunk movie where you can read its multiple layers , Tekkonkinkreet is first and foremost a visual spectacle , hands down , and doesn't fail in providing a Wow factor with its presentation .
A Nutshell Review : Cry _ Wolf	And so the shepherd boy cried " Wolf ! " , but alas , because he had given one too many false alarms , this time round , there wasn't any help rendered at all . It's a familiar fable that Cry _ Wolf has based itself on loosely . A lone girl is found murdered in a woods , and a group of students take it upon themselves to spread some rumours about that incident over the internet through chain mail , and fictionally create a serial killer called The Wolf , and his modus operandi , linking that incident to a series of killings replicated from the past . Why do they do that ? They're a bunch of bored frat kids , who's late night game of lies needed an innovative boost to prevent stagnation , hence the expansion set to include the entire student population's involvement . But little do they know that the real killer had chanced upon their stories , and adapts them for his own sick pleasure , by executing what was told to the T . Although most of the characters may seem fairly one dimensional , like the Scream Trilogy's , it's actually quite an interesting take into the facades one puts up in one's life , of masks and hidden intentions , of betrayals and telling of lies in order to survive , or convince . But what happens if your truth still gets misconstrued as an elaborate lie ? The truth will set you free , but if it doesn't , then what ? The cast is varied with loads of unknowns , the familiar face being rocker Jon Bon Jovi who plays a teacher . But the leads in Owen ( Julian MOrris ) and Dodger ( Lindy Booth ) did relatively OK in their roles as the English boy with a dark past , and Ms Beautiful-Popular ( oh yeah she is ) with a touch of mystery . And probably with unknowns casted , your attention would be focused more on the events that transpire , along with the rocking soundtrack to boot . This is no bloody gory slasher flick and it doesn't rely heavily on cheap thrills to excite . The camps will be divided into halves - those who love it for the cunning plot twists , or those who hate it for trying too hard and for being too contrived , with implausible situations played out . Me ? I thought it was satisfying , a compact 80 odd minutes , without the sacrificing of pace .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Grand Prix	In recent times , our shore was abuzz with concrete rumours of a Formula 1 street circuit being held in Singapore , and a night one at that . I was a Formula 1 spectator fan ( from the television set of course ) for some time , until Schumi came along , won almost everything with the Prancing Horse , and actually made it predictable , and boring for the most parts of each race circuit . Pole position , race day , 50 odd laps and podium finish . While advancement in technology has made driving a car at 300kmph seem like an hour long arcade game , and safety standards have ensured that dangerous stunts and outcomes are reduced to a rare minimum , the sport somehow lacked that danger and edgy randomness in having things go wrong , and to see how drivers use their skill to react to them . Finding that balance between safety and spectacle , without unnecessary endangering the lives of the drivers , is a tough one . For many , watching the cars go through their paces round and round a circuit , may seem to be boring spectator sport , and just how a movie like this can engage , remains a challenge . Clocking in close to 3 hours , it tells the story of 4 grand prix drivers , naturally of different nationalities - American Pete Aron ( James Garner ) , French Jean-Pierre Sarti ( Yves Montand ) , Brit Scott Stoddard ( Brian Bedford ) and Italian Nino Barlini ( Antonio Sabato ) , with their allegiance sworn to the different manufacturers they drive for , which includes Ferrari . They come together on race day to outperform one another , and more often , the movie focuses on their love lives , with Sarti in a budding relationship with writer Louise ( Eva Marie Saint ) , Scott having to deal with an accident caused by Pete , and facing the prospect of losing his model wife Pat ( Jessica Walter ) to that same man , and Nino just being the playboy he is with his latest squeeze Lisa ( played by French singer Francoise Hardy ) . Rounding up the international cast is Toshiro Mifune , who plays the Japanese businessman whom Pete Aron drives for . When their love lives take a break from the screen , the story tries to explore why they do what they do , and what makes them tick during races , knowing well that it is a dangerous job . But the length of the movie also is contributed by the extent in which the races are featured in the movie , from the various grand prix circuits . The thrill in watching this is not for the race scenes per se , but for a trip down memory lane on how F1 was done in the past . There are no paddle gears for shift changes , only those that comes with the stick , and plenty of mechanical parts compared to the computer on board for that " fly by wire " drive in today's cars . Engineering has come a long way , and this movie makes you appreciate that advancement . The tracks featured too are a sight to behold , with a mixture of existing and retired circuits seen . And the strong technical aspect of the film is what makes it entertaining , with features like split screens ( up to 6 at times ) , montages , and plenty of nifty camera angles that make you wonder how they did it back in the old days . The camera shifts perspective often enough , and my favourite would be the one that follows the road , like the Daytona game , sans dashboard . Grand Prix might look dated in its treatment of the narrative , but it probably formed the basis and benchmark on how to film a racing spectator sport , for other race movies like Days of Thunder , Driven and even Pixar's Cars .
A Nutshell Review : Run Papa Run	As far back as I can remember , Sylvia Chang was playing the tomboyish female inspector character opposite Karl Maka and Sam Hui in the Aces Go Places franchise , and it's been quite a transition for her from actress to acclaimed director . I haven't been watching a lot of her films lately , the last being Princess D and saw her in person during the local gala of the film . So in all honesty , I had decided to watch Run Papa Run based on her directing pedigree . Run Papa Run reunites Louis Koo and Rene Liu again for the big screen , after their initial leading pairing in Happy Birthday . Here , they too play a couple that are polar opposites , Koo being in familiar territory as triad chief Lee Tin-Yun , and Liu as Mabel , an aspiring lawyer who decided to junk her high flying career to start a family with Tin-Yun , given after all , a shotgun wedding to begin with . As most would say , fatherhood will begin to change a man , and for Tin-Yun , the arrival of daughter Hai-Yi begins an uphill battle within himself to change for the better . Gone are the recklessness of youth where fights and getting injured are part and parcel of territorial disputes , and begins to rebrand his illegal business to more legitimate ones , albeit some being a front for the same seedy business , but drugs is something he would not touch . Sylvia Chang managed to present quite a sympathetic tale weaved primarily for the Tin-Yun character , and with deft touch provides multiple layers to his triad character , with ample comedic moments to lighten up the mood . Being essentially a superstitious character who has prophetic dreams ( which we will see in an animated opening credits sequence ) , I thought Tin-Yun had provided some very interesting insights on his take of religion , having to convert to Catholicism , while yet maintaining his ties to Guan Gong , the deity of choice of many triad members out there . But more importantly , it tells of the growing up of the Tin-Yun character over a period of many years , chronicling his ups and downs , rise and fall within the triads , though with good buddies Big Mouth ( Lam Suet , check out his incredible hairstyle in the beginning ) , and Big Eyes , starring Max Mok in a welcome return to the big screen , even though both of them really didn't have a lot to do . As such , this movie is primarily a Louis Koo vehicle , and provided him a platform to showcase his acting range , while at the same time , crafting a very likable character . Rene Liu on the other hand , whilst given the meatier role in their previous collaboration Happy Birthday , clearly takes the backseat in this movie , as the long suffering wife whose pride and joy slowly drifts to become more like the father , who has spend a lot of time getting into and out of police stations , and finding it difficult to keep what Tun-Yun is doing , from their daughter . However , the movie does take its time to tell its story , and toward the last act you do feel a little hard pressed for things to move a notch faster , as it creates a lot of subplots that you'd see coming from a mile away , which while nice to have , doesn't really contribute a lot to the story's depth . For Louis Koo fans , I know that this is one movie that you shouldn't miss !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Maid ( 2005 )	It's not that difficult to understand why The Maid was successful during its run at the local theatres , and have garnered international attention . I did not catch the movie when it premiered in the theatres ( that's another story for another day ) , but one of the many reasons / excuses I had was that the horror genre of late from Asia were usually laughable efforts , with mediocre story lines , sometimes bordering on the ludicrous . Not that The Maid didn't have its fair share , but somehow it was tolerable , and actually tried to tell a decent story , which I enjoyed . While some might say it's influences have come from movies like The Sixth Sense and Ju-on , I thought it was a decent effort for our current generation of directors to have spun a yarn from the horror genre , currently monopolized by the Japanese and the Koreans . Curiosity about the effort locally had me borrowing this DVD , and I shall unabashedly say I'd enjoy every moment of it , though not without some gripes of course . The premise is set entirely during the Lunar Seventh Month , which is the month where the Chinese believe the denizens from Hell are released for their holiday on Earth , where they can roam around , and spook folks who do not observe the rules . Rules like not returning home late , not stepping on offerings , not turning back when someone calls you out , and so on . The Maid , seen through the eyes of domestic worker Rosa Dimano ( the very beautiful Alessandra de Rossi from The Philippines ) , introduces audiences and refreshes those familiar with the strange customs , about the do's and the don'ts . New to Singapore , her employment comes from an elderly couple , the Teos ( television veterans Chen Shu Cheng and Hong Hui Fang ) , who head a Teochew opera troupe . While the Hokkien dialect has made its fair exposure in local cinema thanks to Jack Neo movies , it's refreshing to hear the Teochew language being the lingua franca of choice in the movie . It doesn't take long for Rosa to violate some of the unwritten laws , and therefore , she starts to experience things that go bump in the day and night . Yup , strange things happen in the day as well , which I find peculiar . Anyway , be it in limited lighting , or broad daylight , the cinematography by Lucas Jodoigne was beautiful , and probably added a positive dimension to the overall feel of the movie , as did the art director Daniel Lim . Were there moments of disappointment ? You bet , and the major one is with the spirits themselves . They just stand around doing nothing ! Despite relying on the usual tricks up the sleeves of horror filmmakers , like the passing shadows , musical crescendos , creaking furniture , and close up fast cuts , the technique used never go beyond that , and the spirits just hang around . What gives ? Some editing needed to be tightened as certain scenes were inserted without much thought to narrative flow , and looked a bit out of place as a transitional scene . That said , I'm still of the opinion that Kelvin Tong's The Maid has its niched appeal , and more importantly , cemented his ability to make commercial films that can be enjoyed by the masses . If his Love Story had put me off , The Maid had shown what he is capable of , besides his debut with Eating Air , which I also enjoyed . The visual transfer is decently done , and allows for details to be seen even in scenes with little lighting , rather than becoming all black . The colours were vibrant during the opera scenes , while maintaining the dull atmosphere of the Teo family . English and Mandarin subtitles are available , though for the first 2 minutes of the film where there was a dialect voice-over , somehow the much needed translation explaining some Seventh Month superstition was missed . While subtitling was good , there were some noticeable grammatical errors in the beginning . You're given a choice of either Dolby Digital 2 . 0 or 5 . 1 , so depending on how spooked you want to be when the music by Joe Ng and Alex Oh comes on , you might want to tweak it for that surround sound capability . The Code 3 DVD by Scorpio East comes with the standard offerings like scene selections , and contain special features like the 1min 55s theatrical trailer , as well as the Making Of , with both English and Mandarin subtitles . containing interviews with the principle cast , Kelvin Tong the writer-director , and Daniel Yun , executive producer . Running 22 minutes , there's a decent amount of information revealed on the art direction , and some behind the scenes look during shooting , where I thought a scene showing the cast having a heck of a time dancing during their break , was hilarious .
A Nutshell Review : Renaissance	Daniel Craig is making another impact on our screens , though a limited one , besides the latest grittier installment of the Bond Franchise . In this year's Animation Nation Festival opening film , Renaissance , he lends his voice as a lead detective character in perhaps THE animated movie of 2006 . Created using motion capture technology and done entirely in black and white , some reckon it to be similar to reading a Sin City comic book that moves . While Sin City itself was filmed by Rodriguez in live action mode , Renaissance is done in animation , and what beautiful animation it is . Without colour , the entire look and feel is hinged on the clever eye for lighting and shadows , to create the dark futuristic looking atmosphere of Paris 2054 . Hardcore fans of science fiction will probably find the story a yawn , as it rehashes tired plots of mighty futuristic conglomerates and the power that they exert on the commonfolk . Formula dictates that these successful companies are successful because they hide deep dark secrets , if once revealed , could bring about their downfall , and along with it , their grip on the future . Here in future Paris , the largest company Avalon makes its business in youth and beauty , where huge billboards with beautiful models tout the latest in Avalon products . However , a promising young Avalon scientist gets kidnapped , and its up to maverick suprecop Karas ( voiced by Craig ) to recover her . In the future , all cops have awesome tools to assist in their detective work , and Craig , like his Bond character , brings about a angst lone ranger character to his Karas , as tables are turned , the roles between hunter and prey get blurred , and with the usual expected twist at the end to add some flavour to a tired tale . But hey , while the plot might be uninteresting , we're all here for the animation no less . And it's simply amazing to see how , with just splashes of black and white , and superb control in shadow play , what may look easy to produce actually passes off in a sophisticated manner . What's amazing is the creation of the look of Paris of the future , and the characters when they interact , seem like blotches of black ink merging into and separating from one another . It is easy to mash everything up in an incoherent manner , but here , there is clear distinction within the barrage of blur . A joint French-UK-Luxembourg production , Renaissance boasts some excellent voice talents in " recognizable " names like Craig , Jonathan Pryce ( also a Bond alumni ) , and Catherine McCormack in the English soundtrack . There's also a French soundtrack , but that's not the version put on screen today , though I am curious to see how it actually sounds like . Given the sold out sessions of this movie in Animation Nation , it wouldn't be a surprise if it gets picked up for general release here . And what will be the icing on the cake , is Richard Linklater's A Scanner Darkly also hitting our shores . That'll be sweet !
A Nutshell Review : Stranger Than Fiction	Director Marc Forster has a really diverse filmography , with Monster's Ball , the touching Finding Neverland , and the science fiction thriller Stay , all under his belt . The trend continues with Stranger Than Fiction , a film which is quite difficult to categorize , as it's really a mixed bag , bringing memories of Adaptation ( 2002 ) , along similar lines where fiction crosses into reality . Will Farrell is Harold Crick , an IRS auditor who lives live by the clock . Everything is precise , and he has this fixation with order . Some might term it obsessive compulsive , but that's the way this closet mathematician lives , doing seemingly mundane things like counting the number of brushstrokes when he brushes his teeth . His ordered life goes awry when he happens to start hearing a female voice narrating his life as it happens , and that is bizarre enough to freak out anyone since an ultimatum was issued . I appreciate the parts where fiction and ( screen ) reality collide in some weird twists of fate , and contemplate moments where reminders about living life to the fullest , the way you want it to be , get drummed up in the narrative . Taking it to the extreme , it's about the power some of us wields over others , be it employer-employee , or master-slave , or relationships of such . Given that you have the ability to cause hurt , will you continue to go with the decision on the basis of the greater good , or will you seek out a win-win situation , or in less selfish cases , allowing yourself to back down on the negotiations ? The closest I can think of when watching Stranger Than Fiction , in the event of the course of work we remove someone from a position , will you be emotionally detached and end your concern at that , or ponder what will happen to people around the victim ? Those expecting a comedy by virtue of it being a Will Farrell movie , will be severely disappointed . Similar to Ben Stiller's Night at the Museum , Stranger Than Fiction does contain funny moments , but these are not intentionally funny . It's filled with dark humour along the veins of fellow comedian Jim Carrey's Truman Show , with another being having supreme control over the life of the protagonist . But Will Farrell doesn't disappoint in his dramatic ability to carry the film through as the bewildered , desperate man , and that is essentially what made this movie , which plodded along at times , bearable . Assisted by a strong supporting cast , it's perhaps one of the strongest this year end . It's been sometime since we last saw most of them . The script allowed Dustin Hoffman to make some references to The Graduate , and it's indeed since Meet The Fockers was he seen on the silver screen . Emma Thompson too , given the last outing she had was under heavy disguise and makeup in Nanny McPhee . Here , she's sans makeup most of the time , as the writer Kay Eiffel , suffering from a bad mental block . Queen Latifah didn't have much to do , while you'll probably be distracted by Maggie Gyllenhaal's huge arm tattoo , as she's the token eye candy in the movie . Stranger Than Fiction contains nifty special effects but it's something already seen before . The soundtrack is nice , but nothing memorable . That pretty sums up my sentiments of the movie . It's something , but yet something else at the same time , never being bold enough to stick to what would probably work better , allowing itself to surrender its potentially brilliant strength for a typical finale .
A Nutshell Review : Love Exposure	I think I had absolutely no clue as to how high the " chick " factor of this chick flick would be , as it primarily centered upon two women who share different philosophies and attitudes toward love . Think Sex and the city , but instead of a quartet , we have a duo of best friends forever ( sheesh ) who are buddies because their conflicting attitudes means they are unlikely to fall for the same type of persons , avoiding situations where both would want to go after the same guy . Jeong-wan ( Lee Mi-Yeon ) is a rising star photographer who just couldn't keep her hands off the married Young-hoo ( Kim Jun-Seong ) , husband of a rich wife who owns the building Jeong-wan works in . They meet in secret in hotel rooms for their frequent trysts , and to Jeong-wan , one who doesn't believe in long term relationships and commitment , this is something of a perfect arrangement to have someone at your beck and call to talk to during lonely nights , or for no strings attached pleasure . Hee-su ( Lee Tae-Ran ) on the other hand , is married to an average Joe , because she thinks that being average , he would be faithful to her since she's attractive , and that he would not be willing to risk their marriage by flirting with other women who made a pass at him . She prides herself at being someone who is non-jealous even if her husband were to have an affair , but we see how this nonchalance gets put to the test when the husband does incessantly pursue a pretty young thing . We'll observe some peeling of the onion to reveal , not surprisingly , some lack of self-confidence given her need to feel wanted . In some ways , the movie highlights the modern woman's insecurities toward love and relationships , and at some points , the somewhat hypocritical nature of how friends would practice double standard in dispensing " good " advice , so long as it doesn't mirror or become parallel to their own personal predicament . Hee-su encourages and wistfully dreams of the carefree life that Jeong-wan has in her non-committal relationship with a married man , but when she learns of her husbands infidelity , turns on Jeong-wan and riles her as a typical home-wrecker . The first half of the movie was the more engaging section , before it coasts through for the usual satisfying finale that dumbed it down a notch or two . Although rated M18 , this movie steers clear of any blatant parade of flesh . Perhaps it is the message from within the movie that got it slapped with a higher rating for mature audiences , given after all it isn't really conventional relationships that the movie deals with . In actual fact , it plays out almost like two separate films , each following a particular lead character through their respective trials and tribulations , occasionally having the characters interact to exchange notes . Nothing fancy in its presentation , so for those who can't get enough of watching some alpha-females strut their stuff and assert their individuality in relationships , or for those who enjoy chick flicks , then Love Exposure would probably be your choice when you hit the cinemas .
A Nutshell Review : The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift	The Fast and the Furious franchise relies on the simpleness of 2 factors to attract an audience from boys to men - sexy cars and fast babelicious chicks , topped up with plenty of testosterone and adrenaline in overdrive . Racing cars of all makes , be they the European , American or Asian models , one thing's for sure , the stunt driving team deserves all the credit . The first movie made a huge star out of Vin Diesel , while the rest had relatively smaller shots at glory , from Paul Walker , who returned for the second , to babes like Eva Mendes , Michelle Rodriguez and Devon Aoki . The third installment decided to insert refreshing elements , and set itself in the land of the rising sun . Presumably influenced by the driving technique called drifting , which made it to mainstream consciousness via the Japanese manga Initial D , it's just too bad that the Hong Kong movie by Andrew Lau and Alan Mak , adapted from the manga , got to it first , like almost a year ago . Perhaps if the latest shenanigans of racers from both sides of the Causeway were widely publicized , this film could even be made closer to home ! ( In case you're wondering , the Malaysian police had recently conducted a dragnet rounding up illegal racers on its North South Highway . Flashy cars with raunchy stakes - the winner gets to take home the loser's chick for a night's worth of lurve ) There will be no doubts , comparisons between the East's Initial D , and this one from the West . In my opinion , this one edged out Initial D . There are many aspects in which Tokyo Drift is superior , and naturally having a bigger budget means that the filmmakers can afford to put more cars on showcase , more cars involved in races , and more races in varied locations like a tight car park , on the streets of Tokyo , and as a homage too to the source , they couldn't miss the mountain range . Scenes were for both day and night , unlike Initial D's predominantly night scenes . It's never about the acting , though Tokyo Drift will lose out in terms of having relative rookies helm the show throughout , unlike Initial D's stellar supporting cast of Chapman To , Anthony Wong , to established popular teeny-boppers like Edison Chen and Shawn Yue . But Tokyo Drift did have veterans like Sonny Chiba lend a hand , and the coup was the casting of Keiichi Tsuchiya , the original inspiration for the manga , in a cameo . Taking over the lead role from Paul Walker and Vin Diesel is relative newcomer Lucas Black as Sean Boswell , a good for nothing troublemaker with the inborn need to speed . He comes from a broken home , and is the root cause of his and his mom's moving from city to city , because he cannot get out of trouble from the law . When the final straw broke the camel's back , he gets sent reluctantly to live with his father in Tokyo . Thinking that the Asian city has nothing to offer , before you can say " drift " , he finds himself drawn into the world of underground racing , with plenty of flashy cars , hot chicks and mean Yakuza-linked punks itching to challenge anyone to a race . As clichés rule over this movie , Sean falls for the Drift King's ( Brian Tee ) main squeeze Neela ( Nathalie Kelly , thought she looked like a cross between Paula Abdul and Rosario Dawson ) , while unwittingly got brought under the wings of Han ( Sung Kang ) , business partner of Drift King , who teaches him the true meaning and purpose of drifting ( which is a no-brainer purpose of snagging hot chicks ) . Anyway , to a gaijin , Sean is ignorance personified , from culture to racing , he takes these challenges head on , stupidly . And surprise ! A movie like this offered some one-dimensional character development of troublemaker turned good , who learns the meaning of brotherhood , although fame did get into the way of course . But herein lies another strength against Initial D , the lead did not turn out to be " all powerful " - here he has to learn the basics of drifting in an incredible short period of time , and turn out well of course , at the expense of expensive tyres , and cars ( always a pain to see them being wrecked ) . Any racer worth his salt must pimp his ride or zhng his car , and this one offered no less . The star attraction in the franchise are the vehicles . From the Nissans to the Mustangs , it seemed that the Mitsubishi Evo will be a mainstay , and the hero always drives one . It's almost a no - brainer to film movies like these , having stunt drivers to do the actual stunt driving , then cut to actors looking as if they're driving , and insert multiple cuts of hands on steering , foot on pedal , looking mean , etc . Instead of just incessantly focusing on drifting , there are the standard zig-zagging car chases , and some usage of Nitro for that quick boost of horsepower , which the first two movies frequently used . Given its ending by an uncredited cameo which will send fanboys of this franchise into highs , this movie still has potential to be relatively popular and the franchise can indeed continue . It wouldn't be far out if there's an announcement of The Fast and the Furious : North-South Highway , and yes , you heard it here first ! So race away , and unabashedly indulge in this movie that makes no apologies for being fast and furious to the loud sounds of its contemporary soundtrack !
A Nutshell Review : What On Earth Have I Done Wrong	What on Earth has Doze Niu done wrong ? Well , if this mockumentary is anything to do by , then there are a series of missteps that were aptly documented , ranging from relationship woes to professional difficulties all stemming from a lack of funding . Doze stars as himself , or at least the satirized version of himself , one who seemed a little overconfident in thinking that his latest mockumentary production about politics and the media circus , could take off without a hitch , given his track record and pioneering the " star idol " dramas on television . As with all productions , the reality of it is to secure funding , and for the most parts , this film tracks this difficult task , where the filmmakers have to pander to rich folks through entertainment , wining , dining , women of course and basically groveling at their feet . Funding trickles , and even government grants too come in installments . All these take a toil on Doze himself , where existing issues with his live-in girlfriend Ning Ning ( Chang Chun-Ning ) gets amplified , and the other bulk of this film traces this systematic disintegration of this relationship where counselling is in progress to hold it together , but without the fundamental issues being resolved unfortunately . Which is of course his not-too - subtle transformation into an egoistical , selfish man unable to keep his libido in his pants . But the film's a little deceptive in its message , and it doesn't seem to come out clear until of course the well-intended break away from the main narrative to pseudo-interviews with a bevy of stars and politicians , and the man on the street when they talk about what happiness meant . And that is the goal which everyone is trying to achieve constantly throughout a lifetime , to seek out a meaningful and happy life , which of course Doze at this stage is unable to grasp because of the negativeness . Not when you have a whiny secretary who comes to you every day with nothing but a continuation of woes that you have absolutely no certain solution to . It's not all doom and gloom in the film however , and much of the comedy comes from the straight and trash talking characters peppering their dialogue with foul language , cursing at almost everything whether in their sober or drunken state . The Taiwanese Hokkien used here is strong , much stronger than that heard in Cape No . 7 , and if I learnt anything new today , that will be GY is the English language equivalent of well , you know what when you read it out loud . It's an honest look into the Taiwan film industry , and to me that's interesting just as I come at it straight off the heels of the Hindi one in Luck By Chance .
A Nutshell Review : Linda Linda Linda	The closing film of this year's Japanese Film Festival , I was half expecting it to end with a rousing and wild finale , given its similarities to last year's commercial release Swing Girls , which also set its story with characters involved in putting up a musical performance . However , it didn't quite live up to expectation , but nonetheless the journey was still pleasing to the eyes ( ahem ) . Unlike Swing Girls where the characters had no idea how to play with the jazz band instruments , the group in Linda Linda Linda have been jamming in their own rock band , so they have some prior experience . Save for their lead singer , who was hastily recruited , and turned out to be a Korean ( you'd recognize her from The Host ) , from the school's Korea - Japan foreign student exchange programme . So begins the frantic pace of finalizing the composition of the group - lead vocalist Son ( Bae Du-Na ) , drummer Kyoko ( Aki Maeda ) , guitarist Kei ( Yu Kashii , last seen in Death Note ) , and bassist Nozomi ( Shiori Sekine ) , and the independent as well as combined practice and training sessions . The songs were as catchy as the lyrics were inane ( well , if the English subtitles were to be trusted ) , taken from Japanese pink rock band The Blue Hearts . Naturally you'll need the element of adversity , and it comes in the form of a lack of venues to practice before their big day performance during the school's rock festival . As per formula , you'll always have the misfits put together and then bonding just in time for their show . It's no different for Linda Linda Linda , as ultimately it's still a feel good movie . It follows the same technique in teasing the audience on the group's performing ability as they improve day by day , in not showing you their performing of the songs in full , and builds up anticipation for that bring-the-house-down finale . However , it lacked certain deftness in resolving the multiple minor subplots ( like romance ) it opened , preferring to leave them unresolved or open ended . And when the final performance did come on , it's too little too late , with its lack of oomph in delivery , cutting short on the promised 3 song medley . It's a pity though , as the journey to the destination really hinted on a big-bang adrenaline filled ending .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Stay ( 2005 )	If you've enjoyed movies like The Machinist , then you'll probably enjoy a movie like Stay . It's one of those well-designed mystery suspense thrillers that leave you guessing for the most parts until its revelation , where things begin to fall nicely into place after bewildering your mind as the movie progressed and strange , unexplainable things start to happen . Ewan McGregor plays psychiatrist Dr . Sam Foster , who takes over a case from fellow psychiatrist friend Beth . He inherited a patient named Henry Letham ( Ryan Gosling ) who's on the road to self destruction and to end his life by committing suicide to ape his favourite artist , and telling Sam when he's going to do it . Exactly what his motivation is , becomes Sam's obsession and a race against time to prevent it from happening . What strikes you in its presentation from the onset is the ultra-slick editing used for transitional scenes . It's extremely fluid and blends together disparate scenes so perfectly . But despite looking good , the film got bogged down by its narrative in wanting to dwell unnecessarily on the romantic aspect between Sam and his girlfriend Lila , played by Naomi Watts , who seemed a bit too pedestrian in her role as a pained-supportive flower vase type character . Upping the ante on the creepiness , the soundtrack is an eclectic mix of dark sounding tunes , and again I do agree with the use of Massive Attack's Angel to highlight the general mood of strangely calming state of confusion . Director Marc Forster ( Monster's Ball , Finding Neverland ) and writer David Benioff ( who wrote the screenplay for 25th Hour ) managed to throw some red herrings and caught me offguard a couple of times as I was made comfortably smug at what I thought were plenty of deja vu moments , but not quite . I was waiting for the end-all-explain-all finale , but it didn't treat its audience as silly folks and didn't resort to spelling out everything in verbatim . Every strange thing that you spotted had a reason behind it , and they all come together in a satisfying resolution . Even the title has a meaning when you reached this point .
A Nutshell Review : London to Brighton	There were some in the audience who couldn't believe that a film like Amos Gitai's Promised Land could be made , given its almost documentary like feel to an aged old problem of human trafficking for prostitution . I suppose those who feel that way would probably not take to London to Brighton , which like films such as Lilya-4-eva take an angle of child prostitution , and spun a different narrative out of it . Here , it's actually out of desperation - in fact almost all the characters here reek of it , in exploiting children on the streets and enticing them with significant sums of money in order to satisfy the whims of some rich clients . The film takes on a non-linear narrative in having its tale told , which leaves you pretty much engaged in wanting to find out just why two women are on the flight as per its title , leaving behind the city of London in double quick time , where we are introduced at 3 : 07am to Joanne ( Georgia Groome ) in thick makeup , being hidden in a stank toilet cubicle by an older lady of the streets , Kelly ( Lorraine Stanley ) , suffering from one badly bruised eye . I suppose a modest production budget made this film look like a typical gritty English crime thriller , with the hand held camera bringing the audience into the thick of the action , either slowly drawing some sympathies from the lead female characters because of the lack of options made available to them , including being on the run , or presenting a sense of clear and present danger up close , especially when pimps Derek ( Johnny Harris ) and Chum ( Nathan Constance ) become inevitably close in catching up with the duo for an event they committed , kept closely under wraps . The relationship between Kelly and Joanne remain one of the highlights of the film , two women who have nobody else to turn to , trying to determine what their next course of action might be at every turn . We see how Kelly takes it upon herself as the surrogate guardian of Joanne , but I suppose only because of the immense guilt that she brought to the table , for having again out of desperation , introduce a young girl into her dark underworld . Those who have watched Angus , Thongs and Perfect Snogging would see how Georgia Groome makes an about turn from privileged child , to one roaming the streets . The other highlight which I had enjoyed was how thugs have the capability of systematically breaking down one's defenses , in balancing threats and carrots so as to gain some level of trust and obedience . Johnny Harris plays his role well as the pimp who constantly looks out for himself , of bowing to authority and pressure , while Nathan Constance as his chum actually had a lot more characterization going on for him instead . A pity though that it wasn't explored further , and had to be ended as it did in the film . London to Brighton has a sense of danger permeating throughout , in a sort of hunter versus prey kind of film , that will leave you on the edge of your seat as it builds up to its last act , in a story succinctly told in under 80 minutes .
A Nutshell Review : 200 Pounds Beauty	I am not trying to sound like a pretentious fool , but seriously , I am curious how do fat people take towards the onslaught of movies taking the mickey out of the weight issue ? From movies like Shallow Hal , to Eddie Murphy's Nutty Professor , The Klumps and the recent Norbit , and now , this Korean romantic-comedy 200 Pounds Beauty . You'll left to ponder , how many fat jokes are there left to tell ? 200 Pounds Beauty surprisingly was entertaining . No , I wasn't referring to the quality of the fatty jokes , but rather in its premise it sets for the heroine Hanna ( Kim A-jung ) , the titular character in question , a plus sized woman with an extremely marketable voice , who's actually employed in a ploy to be the cover singer for a talentless lass Ammy , who looks good , shakes that booty well , but just cannot sing . At night , Hanna moonlights as a chat line employee - you know , those sexy ads with pretty lasses tempting you to call them through some exorbitant pay-per-call telephone line for phone sex . In love with Ammy's record producer Sang-joong ( Joo Jin-mo ) , but self-conscious about her size and without the dare to admit her feelings , Hanna decides to transform herself after a turmoil of emotional upheavals , albeit with some help from plastic surgery , a full body one no less , and calls the new her Jenny . You might think that the movie is ripe for some criticism into Korea's # 1 obsession amongst their womanfolk , you might want to think again . While there are moments where the characters seemingly lambast both male and female attitudes towards plastic surgery , such as low self esteem and lack of innate confidence , this is very soon forgotten when the movie stepped up a gear towards its fairy tale finale of sorts , which in an incredibly overstretched sequence , tried to elicit soppy tears from the soft hearted ones in the audience . There are some nice , perhaps contrived even , touches built into the narrative , especially on the psychological effects on the changes that extreme plastic surgery - imagine waking up one day to find yourself a completely different person . However in general , it plays out like a fluffy romance comedy with jokes on secret identities , beauties who turn heads ( heh , pun intended ) and get their way in society , well balanced with dramatic moments of honouring the ties with family and friends . Kim A-jung naturally is the star of the show , putting on the fat suit ala what Sammi Cheng did in Love on a Diet . She's naturally beautiful , with those innocent bambi-looking eyes , so it's hard for any hot blooded male out there not to fall for her charms . Also , the music added another dimension to the movie . Filled with pop tunes from the 80s and Korean tunes created for the movie ( I read that the song Maria actually hit the K-pop charts ) , the staged musical concerts are a force to be reckoned with , especially since Kim A-jung really delved deep into the performances , and was credibly lending her own vocals to the songs . I thought at times these scenes played out similar to those in Nana , and similarly to the recent Dreamgirls , prepare for some lung bursting , loudspeaker busting singing . Based on the Japanese manga by Suzuki Yumiko , 200 Pounds Beauty is an example of a perfect date movie , since the girls can ogle at the charmingly handsome Joo Jin-mo . With enough ups and downs and a feel good ending to boot , perhaps the messages in the movie , if there are any to be seriously taken to begin with , become diluted with the relatively long runtime of 120 minutes . The strongest message that comes out of it could probably be that reminder that you can't make everyone love you , no matter how hard you try .
A Nutshell Review : The History Boys	The History Boys is a highly successful and multi-award winning play from London's West End , and it's probably a no brainer in adapting it for the silver screen to reach out to even more people out there . But instead of being just another adaptation , what probably is rare is that the original cast of the production gets recruited for this effort , together with Alan Bennett as scribe for the screenplay , ensuring legitimacy and authenticity . We follow a group of 8 male students immediately after their A-Level results release , as they get selected to undergo one more special semester of tutoring for their entrance exams to the prestigious universities of Oxford and Cambridge . The charm here lies in the very diverse nature of all the boys , though a common attribute they all have is they're extremely intelligent , with a wicked sense of bawdy humour and wit to boot . In short , your unexpected rascals who know their stuff . But not all 8 get equal screen time though , with more dedicated to alpha-male Dakin ( Dominic Cooper ) , the effeminate Posner ( Samuel Barnett ) and thuggish Rudge ( Russell Tovey ) . They share a special affinity for their General Studies teacher Hector ( Richard Griffiths ) , whose laissez-faire style is thoroughly enjoyed by the boys , and is the kind of teaching class you'll probably come to enjoy too if you're in it . And in a warped way , their cemented ties is one dark secret which if revealed , would enforce certain changes in the class . Enter Irwin ( Stephen Campbell Moore ) , a history graduate whose maverick techniques the boys have to get used to , in order to ace the exams . I find it quite peculiar the way his advice turns out , a stark reminder that hard facts that everyone else knows is never enough . You got to spice it up , be controversial even , if the need calls for it . In short , be something like a spin doctor , spice up reports , essays , interviews , the works . Packaging is key , and that I thought was quite true in how we deal in real life at times . And the styles and techniques of the two teachers come to a clash of sorts , but never too confrontational . It's something like Dead Poet's Society without the carpe diem moments , but presents the kind of admiration and respect that the students have for their teachers , and vice versa , coupled with plenty of witty dialogue and as the story develops , moments of heartfelt situations as well . Peppered with an eclectic soundtrack , the story at times felt loaded with lead . And for one who have never seen the play or read much about it , the last act came as a surprise , and with brilliant editing in transition , it struck me as something quite different , and wrapped up the movie quite perfectly , albeit the unexpected happening . The closing credits too were well done , and I thought I actually surprised myself by remembering these technical details rather than the story . Inspirational ? Perhaps . Witty ? Sure . But somehow it lacked the oomph to propel it to greatness in my books .
A Nutshell Review : The Skeleton Key	Hell-oh Nurse ! Kate Hudson was the draw for me actually , and it would be interesting to see if she could pull off carrying The Skeleton Key on her shoulders . I would say if you're Kate's fan , then this movie's for you , since she's in almost every scene as the protagonist , in various states of ( un ) dress . She plays Caroline , a nurse ( did I just mention that ? ) who decides to call it a day when her moral consciousness calls out to her that being in a hospital , just isn't her cup of tea . She cares for her patients , but since hospital beds are always in demand , the recently deceased gets whisked away and forgotten pretty quickly . So she opts for hospice care , and chances upon the Devereaux couple , where Ben Devereaux has suffered a stroke , and wife Violet needed help in caring for the old man . Perhaps she sees it as a chance for redemption , in not being there to provide that same level of care when her estranged dad was sick and thereafter dead even before she knew it . She takes it upon herself to do her utmost even when the patient is fully paralyzed , and the wife isn't too happy with her presence . And what's a horror show , without the usual antics to spice things up ? You have a house with 30 rooms ( which you only see less than 10 ? ) , one of them rooms being the " mysterious - oh - you - cannot - enter " room , a skeleton key which opens every door ( why don't they call it the Master Key ? Probably not sexy-sounding enough ) , a creepy old lady and an even creepier old man , doors slamming , wind howling , always raining , a house with a mysterious past in the middle of a dark , skanky swamp , and hoodoo-magic ( not voodoo , like the movie explains ) . But perhaps these techniques are clichéd already , and no longer working with audiences who have adapted to the Japanese / Korean / Thai style of horror techniques . It does get stale after 20 minutes into the show , with its crescendos and startles , and the filmmakers seemed to be aware of that , and stopped short of them . It did , however , generate some scares amongst the chicken-hearted - you can see them jump at their seats . There's a twist towards the end , which I thought was neatly executed , answering the whos , the wheres , the hows , but leaving the whys until the very last moment . And when you ponder back into what had transpired , it makes some sense , and even adds a tinge of sadness to the entire madness . I am tempted to draw in a comparison with another movie , but if I do so , it'll probably spoil the surprise . It's not an outright horror film , though the trailers seem to market it as such . What this film essentially is , is a nicely done thriller with some hoodoo elements thrown in . If you don't believe , it's not gonna affect you . And it's quite right . But even as Kate Hudson's a looker , I find it hard to recommend this film on a weekend . Strictly for weekday viewing only .
A Nutshell Review : Sansho the Bailiff	Sansho The Bailiff , Japanese film director Kenji Mizoguchi's movie that won the Silver Lion at the Venice Film Festival , opens this season's Japanese Film Festival , and while the titular character happens to be one of the villains in the story , and not even that of a lead character , it's no surprise why this movie was chosen as the opener as it fit the theme of this year's festival to a tee , that of the power of women and femininity . Also , since Kinuyo Tanaka is the actress / director-in-focus as well , this is but one of the movies in her illustrious career that she had worked with all the masters of Japanese Cinema . But to me , it served as an introduction to both the work of director Kenji Mizoguchi , as well as actress Kinuyo Tanaka , and watching the movie as is without in depth knowledge of the socio-political background that this movie is based , I found it rather hard to appreciate the grandeur of this highly acclaimed epic , but nonetheless it served as a good start to want me to revisit the filmography of Mizoguchi , and perhaps learn from scratch and see his evolving into a cinematic master . Telling the story of a family ruined and separated by river pirates when the head of a household , a governor no less , gets sent into exile , the movie follows two threads , one with the wife Tamaki ( Kinuyo Tanaka ) being sold to prostitution , while the children , Zushio ( first played by Masahiko Kato , and then by Yoshiaki Hanayagi ) and Anju ( Keiko Enami , and Kyoko Kagawa ) get sent off to live as slaves in a household run by the titular character ( Eitaro Shindo ) . We get first hand glimpse of the hardship of the lives of the children , where escapees from their confinement get branded permanently with a mark to their foreheads . Although clinging onto their father's wise teachings on humanity , the children , growing up in such a harsh environment , slowly get jaded , and before you know it , Zushio doesn't bat an eyelid when he gets to met punishment amongst fellow slaves . This is a tale about one man's redemption , turnaround and exacting sweet vengeance , but not before learning the mistakes of his ways , and suffering terrible loss along the way serving as a wake up call . It's akin to the likes of other classics such as Ben-Hur , and I thought Zushio's tale can be split into 4 parts - as a kid from a good family stature being stripped of everything leaving a very thin sliver of humanity from which to cling from , followed by his awakening from his tragic loss of kin - which was the much talked about haunting scene in the movie - and then his rise to power through a series of positive coincidences , before ending again with his personal sacrifice to look for his long lost mother , whose song in the town she resided in served as clues as to her whereabouts . While I have no qualms that this movie is indeed assuredly shot , I think long-time readers would likely guess by now that I'm not really a fan of long shots and extended takes . It took its time to tell its story and there are a few moments which looked really comical , even when it's not supposed to , like the behaviour of the mob which fit the intended mentality . That said , I might give Sansho the Bailiff another go , since it has been given the Criterion treatment , and hopefully on a DVD I would have cultivated enough patience to appreciate the movie a lot more than this first viewing on the big screen .
A Nutshell Review : Bangkok Dangerous	I picked up this DVD because I've been to Bangkok couple of times , and wanted to see how the filmmakers Oxide and Danny Pang manage to capture the more sleazy side of the city , and combine it with gangster noir to come up with Bangkok Dangerous . I've heard about the movie , and was surprised that our National Library actually had this DVD in its collection . Bangkok Dangerous tells the story of a deaf mute assassin Kong ( Pawalit Mongkolpisit ) . His is a life of mission after mission , a cold and professional , though small time , killer . Growing up being bullied because of his disability , he finds work at a gun range as a cleaner , until he chances upon Joe ( Pisek Intrakanchit ) and his girlfriend Aom ( Patharawarin Timkul ) . Kong learns his skills from Joe ( in an excellent montage ) , and together , form a tag-team partnership . During the course of work , Kong chances upon the beautiful Fon ( Premsinee Ratanasopha ) who works at a drugstore , and in between missions , he romances Fon , who doesn't shun him in spite of being a deaf mute . The killer has finally known what it is to develop feelings and to love . However , if you live by the gun , chances are there will be those who are after you . Things change for the worse when Aom offends one of the gang's ranked member , and gets raped . Joe goes for revenge , but ultimately gets literally betrayed by the hand that feeds . Kong has to decide - to finish what had started and avenge his friends , or to try and begin life anew with the woman he loves , even after she has started to avoid him , knowing what he does for a living . In a cosmopolitan city like Bangkok , this film manages to capture a kaleidoscope of colours , mood , and use various camera angles to its advantage . It contrasts the shady underworld and strip bars , and its pulsating music , with the silent , kind world of love that Kong for the first time experiences when he's with Fon . It's a story of finding one's own morality when living in the midst of violence and sleaze , and the seeking of redemption from a life of sin . Code 3 DVD extras : Filmography of filmmakers and inspiration for the film .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Brick ( 2005 )	Winning the Special Jury Prize in the 2005 Sundance Film Festival , Brick is a detective movie that is in a unique league of its own . It's terribly unconventional , yet comes with a familiar sense of having seen it somewhere before . Set in a high school , the premise is anything but , with a murder mystery done noir style but in modern settings with teenagers , throwing multiple curveballs in terms of narrative style that writer-director Rian Johnson adopted . The first aspect of difference that hits you is that the language is totally out of this world . It takes a while to get used to it , as there's a peculiar slang that everyone uses , and it's not the usual hip words that get spewed now and then . It's done so all the time , before you finally realize that this is something of a surreal setting - the characters inhabit a world of their own that may seem like our own , but totally not so . But once you get the hang of it , you discover some consolatory joy in trying to figure out what sense do they all make , and sometimes this is revealed as part of the process our teen detective , Brendan Frye ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) goes through . Investigating the death of his ex-girlfriend Emily Kostich ( Emilie de Ravin ) , it all started when she started to SOS him for help , before casting him away all over again . When he discovers his body , he takes it upon himself to find out the truth about the seedy world of high school crime , involving characters like Tugger ( Noah Fleiss ) , femme fatale Laura ( Nora Zehetner ) and Kara ( Meagan Good ) , The Pin ( Lukas Haas ) and Dode ( Noah Segan ) , who turns out to be his ex's current squeeze . In true noir style , we follow Brendan every step along the way as he interacts with all the characters , trying to make sense of things , while dealing with various red herrings , manipulation , violence when the time calls for it , and the dropping of little clues before a very tense and climatic ending . We slowly discover the Whos , Whats , Whys of the Whodunnit , and although limited screen time is given for Brendan's interaction with Emily , you can't help but connect to personal situations where someone who is close to your heart start to sound you out , and you try to reestablish contact , only to be brushed aside harshly . And what is a detective without an able assistance working behind the scenes to feed you information ? The Brain ( Matt O'Leary , gotta love all those quirky character names by now eh ? ) serves as Brendan's , and their chemistry as partners not by choice , turns out to be quite entertaining . It's very difficult to imagine Brick was shot on a shoestring budget , given the high quality in production values , the unique storyline , and nice acting . It's a little movie that became a winner , so I'm recommending it , and for that ethereal haunting song that can easily become a earworm .
A Nutshell Review : The Producers	Before I start the review proper , since there might be some who just like a peek at what the movie offered and missed out on my all important tip , so I shall mention it first . Stay until the end of the credits roll . Not only will you be entertained by the song sung by Will Ferrell during the roll , and some ad-lib at the end about buying ' Mein Kampf ' from Borders , Barnes and Noble , and Amazon , you'll be treated to one last short song-dance sequence sung by almost all the cast in turn , telling you to get lost , get out because the movie's over . Anyway I enjoyed The Producers more than I enjoyed Rent . Perhaps I'm not as deep and prefer my musicals to be fluffy entertainment , at least for those which made the transition from stage to screen . This Tony AWard winning musical by Mel Brooks tells the story of down-on-his-luck Broadway musical producer Max Bialystock ( Nathan Lane ) , and his accountant Leo Bloom ( Matthew Broderick ) . Max is an unscrupulous , unethical producer who obtains financing by making the wishes of horny rich old ladies come true , by being their elderly boy toy , while Leo is an aspiring producer wannabe suffering from a case of severe insecurity , who hatches a plan for both of them to strike it rich to the tune of a million dollars each by making a dud musical . They go all out to find the worst script - Springtime for Hitler , written by Neo-Nazi Franz Liebkind ( Will Ferrell , in a better outing than the boring Bewitched ) , hire the worst director Roger DeBris ( Gary Beach ) - a gay man with a gay crew ( lead by Roger Bart ) decked in Village People outfits who all unanimously agree to make a gay musical , get the worst actors , and stumble upon one hot Swedish chick - Ulla ( Uma Thurman ) . There are plenty of madcap humor and sexual innuendo incorporated throughout the musical , which doesn't bore and kept things fresh somewhat . The cast obviously seem to be having a riot of the time , with their one-dimensional characters hamming it up . A few scenes stand out given its extended length in song and dance , especially those that involve Max and Leo getting their cast and crew to sign on the dotted line . In particular , I enjoyed the sequence where they had to convince Franz to give them the rights to his Hitler musical , and it's a hoot to see the " well-trained " animatronic pigeons trained in Nazism . And who can forget the scene with Roger DeBris as they had to suffer the eccentricities of a director who swings the same way . Uma's scenes were all crazy and funny , as she had to speak in this accent that provided plenty opportunity for puns . And ooh-lala , can she shake that bootie : P We do get to see a bit of Springtime for Hitler though , but that signaled a decline in pace for the entire musical . It was as if the job has been done , and the plot was forcefully extended for that bit of soul searching and closure by the characters Max and Leo . It's pretty enjoyable , with some nice songs , and some very nicely choreographed scenes ( I dig the one where Leo had gone back to the drudgery of his accounting firm , with robotic co-workers singing about being unhappy ) . If you're barred from Rent because you're under-aged , then probably The Producers could make it up to you with its brand of song and dance .
A Nutshell Review : The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning	It takes a lot to make me wince , given the numerous gore movies that hit our shores like Hostel , Severance and the likes , and surprisingly , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning , surpassed the rest in actually making my hair stand on ends . Perhaps it's because I wasn't immersed into the mythos of the chainsaw wielding psychopath and his family of cannibals . Supposedly based on one of the most notorious criminal families in Texan history , these folks operate like the characters from Tsui Hark's New Dragon Gate Inn , exploiting the innocent who happen to cross their paths , being in the wrong place at the wrong time . Already this cliché has been used to death ( pardon the pun ) in movies of the same genre , but this was one of the first ( The original was released in 1974 ) , , with a number of sequels ( one even starring Viggo Mortensen ) , and remakes ( one starring Jessical Biel recently , produced by Michael Bay ) . So what is it that makes Thomas Leatherface Hewitt a hit ? It's the weapon baby . The chainsaw is music to the ears , and it is raw power . In the right hands , it's a lumberjack's weapon of choice in sawing down some trees . In the hands of a psycho , plunging it into someone brings about a sickening squishy sound of metal grinding against flesh and bone . And that , is the sick pleasure one gets when watching the movie . There is nothing too brainy about the storyline , given that it's a prequel trying to explain how things came about , and because it's something that chronologically had happened before , there's no prize in guessing who survives , or not , which makes the finale a bit of a bore . I think I am , and the audience too , are sick in wanting to watch our eye candy cast , whom we don't really give a damn about , become target practice for one of the cult killers of cinema . There are supporting characters who join in the fray , but ultimately , it's still focused on one of the first two couples who have their opportunity to make or break with our killers on the loose . It's a mixture of capability - some utterly useless and cowardly , while others , like Chrissie ( Jordana Brewster , she's hawt ! ) had more to do than just looking good , or scared , or shitting in their pants . To watch this uncut , uncensored in R21 glory , and anticipating those moments when Leatherface discovers the joy and pleasure of using the chainsaw , makes this movie the largest guilt trip I have undertaken this week . And to think I watched this before my week long hiatus too : PWelcome to the slaughterhouse .
A Nutshell Review : Grace is Gone	John Cusack is one of the character actors I admire . And in Grace is Gone , it centers upon his ability to bring you into his character's world . He really transformed himself into the role of Stanley Philipps with his thick glasses , walking with an instep , and that little hunch and a paunch , and delivers probably one of his finer touches in disappearing into a character that's so everyday average joe . He's a salaryman earning his keep while watching over his two girls while Mrs Grace Philipps ( Dana Lynne Gilhooley ) is a career soldier who gets her tour of duty in Iraq . The crux of the entire story laid on the premise of Stanley trying to find the appropriate moment to tell his children about the unfortunate demise of their mother , while at the same time fighting hard to accept the bitter truth that the woman he loves is gone . More so of course when it is revealed later some things that can no longer be reversed in time , which makes it all the more sad , and regrettable . But we also learn more about Stanley through the eyes of his children , when they throw the occasional tantrum , or have issues to deal with . Shelan O'Keefe as Heidi the older daughter , is a remarkable actress , lending some gravitas to her role when it called for it , and holds her own opposite Cusack very well . Gracie Bednarczyk as younger daughter Dawn I guess was just being herself , injecting much needed effervescence to counter the heavy drama that circulates throughout the movie . Besides some expected and really moving scenes in the movie , some from plot devices , while others from the characters themselves , writer-director James C . Strouse also managed to sneak in a comment or two about War and Truth , which is what we make it up to be , most of the time . Alessandro Nivola also turned in a rather short but nice performance behind that heavily bearded appearance as the brother of Stanley and the children's uncle . If I need another plus point to recommend Grace is Gone , then it will be the score by Clint Eastwood ( yes , what a surprise when the end credits rolled ) , punctuating the story neatly when it called for it . All in all , a story without any major plot twists ( since the title already said it all ) , simple yet effective , and hinged very much on excellent acting to bring the characters to life .
A Nutshell Review : Atonement	So now we know why the young must be protected from vulgarities and from sexual scenes , because with vivid imagination , they could probably be quick to jump to conclusions , being unable to grasp and fully understand the situation at hand , nor the gravity of their actions , especially when they're shooting from the hip . Initially , I thought I would be able to watch Atonement if I had managed to make my way to Tokyo for its International Film Festival last October . But I didn't , and I waited , and waited , and when I finally managed to watch it this evening , I felt that it didn't work for me , no matter how much I can identify with the longing to be with someone , and being unable to . It contained themes I very much like , but perhaps I'm beginning to get tired of it , since they are somewhat negative emotions that do take their toil over a period of time . Set in the 30s England just before the outbreak of WWII , we get introduced to the rather aristocratic Tallis family , where we witness the budding start of a romance between Cecilia ( Keira Knightley ) and the housekeeper's son ROBBY ( James McAvoy ) , with the help of flimsy , wet lingerie to bridge the divide separating their swearing of true feelings for each other . However , to sister Briony ( Saoirse Ronan , who clinched an Oscar Nomination ) , she starts to see a different side of it , made worse by a misunderstanding and in actuality , a mistake Robby made when he handed over a letter written with tongue in cheek and brain in the gutter ( yep , you can say men think about sex most of the time ) . And that one single day had everything a loving couple could have wished for - the discovery and declaration of love , the passionate love making , but only for everything to come crashing to a halt when Robby gets accused for a crime he did not commit . And you can feel the disappointment and anger of course , at the accusation because it was somewhat steeped in presumptions of class or the lack thereof , and the hypocrisy , coupled with seething rage as we the audience , with knowledge of hindsight ( and the benefit of just knowing ) , can tell that it's so utterly wrong , with obvious clues of course to who the perpetrator might be . While we love to see the lovebirds coming together , the movie's more about the time they spend apart . And that unfortunately somehow sagged the movie to low depths , as we see them spend their screen time independently , with McAvoy brooding over his life now in disarray as he volunteers for war to escape from the confines of a prison cell , and Knightley unfortunately becoming relegated to a support role , which you can hardly feel her character , her pain , and her love for the man now so far away . It is hardly any wonder why both actors missed out on Oscar nominations ( not that it mattered ) , because their roles hardly challenged what these 2 actors could have delivered . The scene stealer turned out to be child actress Saoirse Ronan , who is the cause of the turn of events , though the mantle of her character get passed to Ramola Garai and Vanessa Redgrave . What made Atonement work though was the technical side of it . The score was excellent and director Joe Wright ( Pride and Prejudice ) made sure it gelled so well with the visuals , that it becomes an extension to what's on screen . You can't deny that art direction and cinematography were superb . Editing was non-conventional , but never confusing , offering you both what is perceived truth , and hindsight knowledge , just as how Briony would have experienced it . But what's missing , for a romance at least , and the danger of having every technical aspect delivered so clinically , was the absence of an emotional resonance , because without it , a romance movie can be pretty empty , and soulless , going through the motions without attempting to allow you to crawl under their skins to empathize with them and their sorry plight . I had looked forward to Atonement with so much anticipation , that I guess when I've finally seen it , my expectation got deflated so bad that it turned out to be anti-climatic for me , even with an ending that should have wowed and kept one thinking and discussing about the unfortunate futility of one's actions , set in stone , setting the wheel in motion , and being unable ever to be turning it back .
A Nutshell Review : I'm a Cyborg , But That's OK	I think one of the easiest ways to make a movie , would be to make one about mad people in a mental institution . Anything and everything can happen , you don't have to explain every minute detail , and the bottomline is , you can interpret it in whatever way you want . I'm a Cyborg , But That's OK runs along similar lines , having its two lead characters patients of a psychiatric ward , but therein lies some structure of a story about love , reaching out , and in making sense of life ( not to mention the movie as well ) . Directed by Park Chan-wook who gave us his famous Vengeance trilogy ( Oldboy , Sympathy for Mr Vengeance and Sympathy for Lady Vengeance ) , it's a very big leap from that trilogy , into something more fantastical , light hearted , bright , and may I say , at times nonsensical as well . But there were some lapses into teasing audiences familiar with his more violent trilogy , incorporating signature scenes which were a blast as I thought they were inserted at appropriate moments when you just want to lash out at everything else happening in the story . The introductory scene reminded me of Wisit Sasanatieng's Citizen Dog ( in fact , the general look and feel of the presentation resembled it , minus the voice over narration ) , where we see Young-goon ( an extremely appropriate subtitled name , played by Im Soo-jung ) degenerate into madness and gets herself warded into an asylum . She starts to think of herself as a cyborg , and develops special affection with florescent lamps and vending machines , while refusing to eat , as it will mess with her internal machinery . And we meet Il-soon ( Rain ) , who develops feelings for her , and embarks on a quest to convince and get her to eat , while sharing with her tender moments as they make sense of their worlds within the confines of an institution . The big draw to the movie for local audiences will no doubt be Rain . In his debut feature film , fans will no doubt be flocking to the cinemas to catch their latest idol in action , with the only snag that those below 16 cannot gain admission ( rated NC-16 ) . Female fans will be thrilled that he sings a little in the movie , and yes , bares that famous chest of his . We're talking about the man who has held a concert here with the highest ticket prices ( the most expensive being S$888 ) , though the preview I was in , was surprisingly , less than 20 persons in attendance . For starters , I do not know of his appeal , nor do I listen to his music , but I thought he performed reasonably as Il Soon , a thieving man who believes he can absorb the abilities of others , and does so to comedic effect . Actually , what turned out appealing to me , was centered onto the background madcap people , the supporting cast playing all sorts of crazy characters . Some with dialogue , others just preoccupied in their own little worlds , doing their own little repetitive actions , most of which just draws out chuckles . It's a love story within plenty of fantastical sequences . Just don't try to make sense of things that don't seem to make sense , and you'll be able to breeze it . And on that note , I'm a Cyborg , but That's OK may not be everyone's cup of tea , in the traditional romantic comedy sense .
A Nutshell Review : The Ex	If I were to look at it , I would say The Ex aka Fast Track forms a loose trilogy of sorts with regards to growing up , and somewhat like a natural progression in the different stages of life that Zach Braff's characters form when stringed together . With Garden State , it's in the 20s where you're having a feel for the ground , exploring your options and not knowing exactly what life will dish out to you . With One Last Kiss , so you think that you're dead sure about your other half , you're getting married and vowing to spend the rest of your lives together , and suddenly an ingenue comes along , and cast doubts about that . Plenty of what-will-you-do moments , with outcome that are different depending on your values , but totally possible , and brought out earnestly through Braff's performance as the everyday man . In The Ex , Zach Braff plays the blue collar salaryman whose hotshot lawyer wife had just given birth and as agreed , she'll be a stay home mum . But he just got fired from his job , thus sending their agreement into red alert zone . Taking up his father in law's offer , he uproots himself , wife and baby and starts work in a new age advertising company , only to meet up with his wife's ex . You'd come to expect the usual jokes about not fitting into a totally different corporate culture with its own idiosyncrasies , conflict with the parents , and the constant threat posed by the wife's ex Chip Sanders played by Jason Bateman , which I bet almost every male would want to kill given his attitude and back stabbing nature . It's classic office politics at work as we root for the survival of Zach's Tom Reilly , though at times you'd expect him to have a little more backbone , and a little bit of smarts to survive the jungle out there . If that sounds a little like Meet The Parents , it does . And it also is styled after Just Friends in the rivalry department , where two guys do battle over a girl , only that this time , it's the third party up against a married couple . Though I'd say it again , nothing beats riling you up when you see how the bastard at work gets away with almost everything , and get incensed with his obvious intentions to bang his ex , i . e . the wife . The flow of the movie did seem a little broken at times , which I suspect that there were a lot more filmed than was put on screen , perhaps saving them for the DVD release . The ideas injected into the movie were numerous , but that made for the narrative feeling a little scattered . For instance , Amanda Peet as the wife Sofia Kowalski didn't really have much to do except nurse the baby , and be in some of the most trying comedic scenes such as the ones involving yoga . Fans of Braff will not want to miss yet another familiar performance , and remember to stay tune during the credits for a coda , as well as various bloopers , some of which are genuinely funnier than the bits that made it to the movie .
A Nutshell Review : ( SIFF ) It's Only Talk	This is a thoroughly depressing film , and I mean it in a good way , though weird that it might sound . Tackling the serious issue on manic depression , It's Only Talk manages to ring home the theme and resonate it within you . On the other hand , I didn't like the movie for its effect it had on me , as I certainly did not like the negativity feeling that permeated . The protagonist is a manic depressive 30-something female named Yuko ( Shinobu Terajima ) , who is an active participant of a manic depression online group , and milked it to come into contact with others suffering from the same illness . Strange people like the cinema sex-pervert and a Yakuza gangster . We also take a look at the relationships she established with her school friend who's suffering from erectile dysfunction , as well as her cousin , who has separated from his wife . And it is her relationship with the cousin Shoichi ( Etushi Toyokawa ) that takes up the bulk of the screen time . As Yuko's condition degenerates into severe mood swings with the lack of drugs to control her condition and suppress her emotions , we see the care that Shoichi takes upon himself , to nurse her back to health . During this period , we witness both characters growing in their love for each other , and the realization of brief happiness together . The film moves from the very lows of depressive feelings , to the ecstasy that their company brings . But what is true happiness ? And with depression comes the issue of the will to live . I appreciate the story for showing a different , subtle side of mental ( ? ) illness . That it doesn't take for it to surface explicitly , to show the world that you're suffering . You can be deeply unhappy inside , but on the surface , demonstrate that you're OK , and can actually be a pillar of strength to someone else . Different people have got different problems and issues to grapple with , but each must find their own solutions , just as we see the guys in Yuko's life having their difficulties , yet trudging on to actually come face to face with those issues , even though at times I felt there were using Yuko for their selfish time-filler reasons . Filmed in the Kamada neighbourhood ( it seemed that the native Japanese folks amongst the audience didn't realize that it existed too ) of Tokyo , it has some of the most interesting visuals like the " green elephant " facade of a home , and a made-of-rubber-tyres Godzilla statue . Yuko , being unemployed , spends time exploring the road less travelled , taking pictures with her Sony DSC-W1 ( I'm speculating on the exact model , but I have the exact same camera , so . . . ) Based on the novel by Akiko Itoyama , It's Only Talk highlights the illness of manic depression , but also suggests ways to care for the sufferer through tender loving care , that they too will be able to lead a normal life . Actually everyone does thrive upon TLC given by loved ones . It's positivity that is required , though the narrative ended quite negatively . I was surprised that the director Ryuichi Hiroki was in attendance , and conducted a brief Q & A session after the movie through a translator . And I shamelessly got an autograph too : - )
A Nutshell Review : Invisible Target	There's nothing invisible about the target in Benny Chan's latest movie Invisible Target . And in actuality , it seems that the constant target for everyone in the movie here , be they the bad guys or the good cops , are the plenty of glass lying around , getting smashed into smithereens by hurled projectiles , or more frequently , human bodies . See that nice looking glass window ? It'll be smashed soon . Or that double panel glass facade ? Yup , as soon as you notice it , the next scene will show it in a million bits on the floor with a writhing body . It could be aptly titled Glass Target . But don't get me wrong . Invisible Target is still enjoyable , in that it brings to you the flavour of a typical Hong Kong action movie , with Benny Chan at the helm . As we slowly get nauseated by the frequent mole versus mole plots that Hong Kong crime thrillers formula usually adopted ( no thanks to the success of you know what ) , I thought Invisible Target was reminiscent about an old John Woo movie Hard Boiled , except that it's minus the guns , and instead you get plenty of fisticuffs . A similarly long drawn out ending was a little too tedious to sit through , though it had its fair share of big bangs and segmented action sequences which tried hard to hold your attention . Teahouses remain perfect locales for fights to break out ( as in Hard Boiled ) , and here , it serves as a male bonding moment for our three heroic cops Chan Chun ( Nicholas Tse ) , Fong Yik-wei ( Shawn Yue ) and Jaycee Chan's Wai King-ho . But in between the action , are the woefully painful monologues that the villain Tien Yeng - seng ( Wu Jing ) and his merry gang of 7 ( which includes Andy On as brother Yeng-yee ) dish out , trying to philosophize their actions as " I'm a villain so I kill " , and about justice-injustice in the world . Wu Jing again never failed to disappoint , as he has this charismatic aura around him which doesn't dissipate when he whups everyone's rear , hard ! We've seen what he can do in SPL , now watch him do that with double the speed and intensity , and on thrice the number of victims . If anything , Invisible Target is a Wu Jing movie , and one in which I'm not surprised if many actually throw their weight of support behind him . It's a movie that the villain outshines the heroes easily . With three distinct cops , Invisible Target actually spends a considerable amount of time introducing them one by one . Nicholas ' Chan is always brooding , and a reckless one in that he's mourning the loss of his fiancée . He's out to get Tien because she happened to be collateral damage . Shawn's Fong is arrogant , until he's made to eat lead ( in a scene you have to see to believe ) by Tien , and his bruised ego says he must take the villain down . And Jacycee's Wai is probably the wimpiest of the lot , being a by-the-books street cop who's investigating the disappearance of his brother ( do a double take on that cameo ! ) , who might have fallen into Tien's hands . It's no doubt too that all of them are skilled in martial arts , and at any time would prefer to holster their weapons . Nicholas and Shawn are no newcomers to action , having starred together in recent movies like Dragon Tiger Gate , and thank goodness they've ditched their long locks in that movie for contemporary shorter crop here . And while the two of them are relatively old hands in the industry , I can't help but wince each time Jaycee is on screen . For starters , he's the son of the legendary Jackie Chan , and in Invisible Target , I can't help picture it's a younger Jackie being beaten , battered and bruised . It didn't help that his character , the most naive and innocent of the lot , is in total contrast to the classic cop characters his father portrayed , and I surely think it was deliberate that he remains the least buff of the lot , with many goody-two-shoes scenes occasionally played out for comedy , or to reinforce that he's basically a cut above the rest of the good cops in terms of having a good natured character . Characters like his are hard to come by in an age where grittier cinematic cops roam the street . So while big brothers Nicholas and Shawn get some fantastical set action pieces to show off their mettle , Jaycee got the shorter end of the stick by being quite a deadweight at times . Oh , and what of Elanne Kwong's role ? Sadly there isn't too much for a pretty lass to do since her character Leung works in the Police Intelligence department , and doesn't get directly involved when the going gets tough . A typical flower vase role unfortunately , for a combined screen time of less than 5 minutes . Despite its reliance on hard hitting action dished out by the actors themselves , and in all purpose are as realistic as they look with the obvious wire work seen in the trailers drastically reduced , a few noticeable continuity errors marred the enjoyment of the movie at times . Invisible Target had all the ingredients for a classic action movie , but the run time of more than 2 hours was due to an overindulgence with the slower moments which were fused with a couple of " I'm a cop " moments , and feel good messages rammed down your throat . And what do you know , Invisible Target still can't shake off the mole versus mole type plot line , unfortunately . If it could have been a little more compact , and gotten to the point faster than it did , it would have been a tad more enjoyable , given the wealth of cameo / supporting talent at its disposal , like Sam Lee ( Dog Bite Dog ) and the evergreen Lam Suet , rather than feel the need to tie up all the loose subplots it introduced , and exposing some technical loopholes in some action sequences .
A Nutshell Review : Silk	Two reasons why I watched this . First , I've been recommended this film by a friend . Secondly , it starred Barbie Hsu - with a name like that , why shouldn't I want to watch this ? OK , so I know she starred in the Taiwanese pop-drama television series Meteor Garden , and am just curious to see her in yet another horror movie . And since I'm in post-birthday celebrations , I also learnt she's a day older than me . OK , so I'm digressing . Silk is a horror movie , and quite a decent one at that . Although it uses the all too familiar ghostly boy character , this boy , unlike recent predecessor seen in Dorm , is very much creepier and deadlier . He's the star ghoul , and exhibits a strange behavioural pattern of staying in a particular room and speaking to himself , or so it is thought . A team of modern day paranormal investigators cum scientists , led by Japanese Hashimoto ( Yosuke Eguchi ) , recruits a police hotshot with special powers of lip reading , sharp shooting , and that peculiar sixth sense , Ye Qi-Dong ( Chang Chen ) , to unravel the mystery of the boy . However , Hashimoto has an ulterior motive into his research , which has spawned an anti - gravity device called the Menger Sponge , that can be used to entrap spirits , and in liquid spray form , allows the user to see the paranormal . The movie relies on some hokey physics theories to bring across some ideas and its premise . It tries to explain the phenomenon of spirits and ghosts and how they come about , using some scientific explanation that they are forms of energy . Watch this movie to see if you agree to the conditions presented to turn someone into a spirit that roams the earth , rather than to dissipate into nothingness upon death . But don't get me wrong , it does make for some interesting story development ( hey it's fiction / science fiction anyway ) . At its core , this movie dwells on themes of existence , family , and again the human emotions of love and hate . I thought Chang Chen did well in the role of the officer who , despite his super abilities , still find it difficult to grapple with new inexplicable experiences , and at the same time , the critical illness of his beloved mother , and trying to maintain a relationship of sorts . The rest of the cast did OK , but in my opinion , noted more for their eye candy presence . There are truly genuine scary moments in this movie , which was seriously lacking in recent horror releases . Although most are much ado about nothing , or relied on the usual tricks up the horror sleeve with smart manipulation of editing and music , it did provide what I thought was an explanation on how offerings to spirits are possibly handled , through the use of well placed and polished special effects . In summary , what works for Silk is its semblance of a decent story , and the ending which was satisfactory , given its at times hilarious build up during the tense final ( what's up with all these Ringu homages , made plain ridiculous and full of cheese ) and unexpected twist of a logical flaw . It's also touching and sad at times , and for those who are of softer hearts , it might bring about some tears . Do take note though , with its PG rating locally , much of the gore were censored out , in really ugly means . Very jarring to the entire flow of the movie .
A Nutshell Review : 15	15 gained its film notoriety locally for its content , about the lives and angst of teenage delinquents in Singapore . However , after watching this film , one might think a little deeper about the trials and tribulations that these teenagers face , from the angle that director Royston Tan presents . The opening credits was stylishly done , and this is very surprising actually , for a local film . The feel of the movie was like a series of short snippets of set pieces , be it gang fights , body piercing , the etching of a tattoo on one's body , body mutilations , the swallowing of condom filled Ecstasy pills , etc . And stringing it all together were manga inspired transitions done Japanese documentary style of huge words smacked across the screen . While these stylistic techniques drew attention to themselves , the main leads were also infamously rumoured to be in similar dire straits as the characters . The street wise teenagers actually looked sincere in their acting ( or were they ? ) and it's a wonder how Royston managed to coax them into starring in his movie . The plot , as mentioned , consists of short stories which fell into 3 acts . The first , being the brotherhood between 2 friends who ponder the meaning of their aimless lives . They know that they are condemned in the eyes of society , and find solace in the company of themselves . The second act was a bit comical , as 2 friends helped an ex-enemy to look for a building to commit suicide in . And the last act continued with examining the lives and friendship between the same 2 friends . Sure , peppered throughout the dialogue are constant swearing , smoking , drug-taking , porn watching , lip piercing ( which irked the audience ) , hokkien song singing , but there's a limit to how much these novelties can disguise a lack of focus in certain parts of the story , especially towards the end . I felt the strength of this film was in the first act , where you could actually feel the desperation and crying out for direction in life , and eventually the succumbing to the belief of what Fate has dealt them . Nonetheless , for its stark and pointed commentary , this is certainly a departure from the usual stories that one might associate teenagers with . It's gritty , dark , melancholic to the point of despair , this is a glimpse into the troubled lives of the local misguided youth .
A Nutshell Review : Breathless	Unfortunately some technical issues marred the supposedly powerful introduction where violence get unleashed by all characters on screen both physically and verbally . Clearly played from a DVD screener with the " Showbox " watermark , the audio was left silent for the good part of some verbal barrage , which to the prudish might seem like music to their ears . If there's one thing I learnt / have reinforced after the movie , is how ubiquitous the Korean swear word which sounds phonetically like " shee-bal " can actually be . It's more versatile than the English language's F-word , and the Korean one can be used to describe a whole host of bodily parts both male and female , with colourful adjectives strung together as well . Either that , or the person subtitling the show has some really colourful imagination to tag some appropriate swear words of his / her own liking , in order to spice up the dialogue for non-Korean speaking audiences . Breathless is almost like a one-man effort , with Yang Ik-June wearing a number of hats in producing , writing , directing and starring in the lead role of Song-hoon , a violent gangster who doesn't have to think twice when deciding to lay hands on his victims , and insulting them concurrently with his foul mouth . He's a debt collector in a small outfit which he co-founded , but finds more pleasure in being a field agent , bringing along underlings whom he can abuse as well , and show the ropes to , in teaching the essence of collecting money , and to show no mercy to those who cannot pay up . Most of the violence happen off screen , though the aftermath is seldom shielded in order to elicit a response from the audience . It actually makes for a great 3D movie with objects flying all around and at the screen , from furniture , to fists , and even spit , and I enjoyed the many unintentionally comedic moments that Ik-June effortlessly paints into his narrative despite the very negative elements of violence and language that pepper throughout , and almost every character was left tainted by dishing out , or be at the receiving end of bad signs or an uncouth mouth . I suppose the question here is , and the issue that Ik-June could have wanted to address , is that of violence , and domestic violence even , if a circumstances of a tragedy would lead to impressionistic youths turning to violence as a means of release and addressing their emotions . Or more directly , if being brought up in a violent environment would lead to the nurturing of violent tempers , given the lack of proper role models , and being unable to break out from the vicious circle as that painted in the film . Breathless may seem a little too long as it had attempted to give each character equal opportunity to shine , from the schoolgirl that Song-hoon befriends , to his boss , a young boy whom he takes as his own , and his mother , coupled with a protégé in the making . It's quite the complete story serving as a cautionary tale and a statement of the never-ending cycle , but would have benefited from tightening up the pace a little and could have gone under 2 hours . That said however , it did result in enough apathy given toward the characters here , given the anti-heroic stance they're all under , and you'll buy into its story of redemption toward the last act , and the fortification of the positive relationships that Song-hoon had , through his own violent ways , brought together .
A Nutshell Review : Detroit Metal City	And I felt the filmmakers nailed it squarely on the head with the casting of Ken'ichi Matsuyama , more famously known these days as the teen detective L from the Death Note series . In that film he had disappeared behind a stoic and serious demeanour behind a lithe frame , being quite fleet-footed while snacking on sweet food . Here , Ken'ichi again disappears and in more challenging terms , being on opposite sides of the spectrum from the meek to the flamboyant , and if you're not impressed by his L , his turns here would impress as being a consummate character actor capable of fleshing out characters very convincingly . If it's a chameleon actor you're looking for , look no further than Matsuyama . As Negishi , his mushroom cut hairstyle sported fits the character to a tee . A mild mannered sissy nerd , he shuffles his feet from his hometown village to the bright city of Tokyo in the hope of fulfilling his dream of being a trendy pop singer . You know , the one who belts out bubblegum pop tunes about first love and sweet kisses . He lives by the mantra of " No Music No Dream " , and inspires his fellow peers to do the same and seize the day . Just so to tell you he's still a straight character despite his effeminate ways , he's attracted to Aikawa ( Rosa Kato , who resembles a little like Aoi Miyazaki , who's starring in yet another similar music - based movie in Shonen Merikensack which I am looking forward to ) . Who wouldn't ? But an unexpected opportunity to join a band , he soon finds himself manipulated by his female boss ( Yasuko Matsuyuki ) into becoming the frontman for the heavy metal band Detroit Metal City ( DMC ) as Johannes Krauser , the long haired , pale skinned singer from the depths of hell who sings raged filled songs and preaches satanism , hate , anger , murder and rape . He garners a country-wide following filled with rabid groupies , and is more wildly successful as part of the engineered metal band , than trying to strike out on his own as a frivolous pop singer that's a dime a dozen . It's an excellent contrast of characters , but more so , an examination of self and the personas we adopt in different situations . It might even be a classic case of Schizophrenia for Negishi , because as Krauser , he's really good at what he does , and almost comes second nature as that sissy man who had found an avenue to unleash his pent up frustration and hit back at the whole world , and get adored for that as well . Cursing and swearing comes second nature , and he can get really confused at times if his interests got mixed ? romancing his lady love who abhors metal music , and satisfying his legion of fans with a public appearance . Unlike the Incredible Hulk within whom Bruce Banner disappears , it's interesting here because Negishi has full conscious control over Krauser , but allows himself to cut loose and live up to that masked persona even if it means having to embarrass the woman he loves . It's about striking a balance between living your dream , and being practical about it . As Krauser , he inspires others into living theirs , even though he doesn't exactly get to do the same . But only because he does what he does best , even though he doesn't exactly subscribe to it . He commands his unwavering fans for whom he inspires , though in some negative ways , but what better than to express one's rage through music and at the concert venues only rather than to hit back in society - we don't see any of the metal fans causing trouble , and the amount of clout one has in influencing his followers to live for the better . It's this realization and awakening that Negishi understands his calling in life , that he cannot live a life that's for selfish personal interest ( in throwing away Krauser just so he can pursue his love ) over that of the benefit for the masses and those who adore him . It's like a superhero story of sorts as well , where the hero disappears into his sanctuary by having an alter-ego within which he can operate normally without the pressures of expectations . We become somebody else very easily when we have ourselves hidden behind a costume incognito , and can carry out feats which we normally wouldn't do for fear of identity , repercussions and of course shame if something goes wrong . The white face makeup is Negishi's secret formula in transformation from geek to devil , without fear of his family discovering his secret ( he tells them he works at a floral shop ) and disappointed his parents that he's a preacher for hate , in direct contradiction to the gentlemanly ways he's brought up in . But of course like any other movie , this one is not perfect . There were a number of scenes that were played out purely for laughs , but sometimes fell flat on its face for its repetitive nature . Such as having his boss from hell come trash Negishi's pastel coloured apartment just so that she could awaken the devil in him permanently , and provide for some misunderstanding between Negishi and Aikawa . Or that inexplicable scene of running with his legion of fans for miles before reaching a concert venue . One could actually tell Ken'ichi Matsuyama was panting under that thick makeup and heavy costume . To no surprise , DMC attracted more female fans than the male ones in the screening I attended , despite having metal music blaring that degrades the female of the species , so that can only attest to the magnetism that Ken'ichi has over his fans . It isn't exactly about metal music , nor is it about the comedy here , but it's about self and the masks we all wear . For that , this comes definitely recommended in the dilemmas that we lead our lives under from time to time .
A Nutshell Review : Four Brothers	A kind old lady is murdered in cold blood one snowy night in a convenience store . It seemed like the usual stick up by racist hoodlums on the hard streets of Detriot , and that the lady was collateral damage . Four orphaned brothers of the hood are brought back together to mourn the loss of their foster mother . We see the Mercer brothers Bobby , Angel , Jeremiah and Jack , bond together as they try not to openly weep . But deep down inside , they know the police can't do much to help a covered-up investigation , and swear sweet revenge upon those involved in the killing . I was expecting loads of gun battles and intense action , but this movie surprised me with its witty moments instead . There weren't much wham-bang action , but the one which stood out was the ambush on the Mercer house , and the car chase sequence along frozen streets . The script was mildly intelligent with its weaving of the brothers ' dalliances with the hoodlums , contract killers , government officers , and with crooked cops , bringing them all together for an interesting finale . The last Mark Wahlberg movie I saw was The Italian Job remake , and here , Wahlberg reigns as he personifies the cocky hotheaded Bobby Mercer . Andre Benjamin seemed somewhat muted too , after his recent screen stint as a flamboyant and trigger-happy gangster in Be Cool . Perhaps it is his role as the family man which adds that extra dimension and difference between him and the rest of the brothers - he can't be as carefree or act with total disregard as he has people who depend on him . This film also makes no apologies in adding that bit of realism to its dialogue , with street language and cursing aplenty , with plenty of stereotypical characters . But all in all , it's an enjoyable flick , as we observe in silent glee , the four brothers exacting revenge with R & B music humming along in the background .
A Nutshell Review : Happy Birthday ( Sun Yat Fai Lok )	It's difficult to sit through this movie , at least for me . Identifying with certain elements brought back some memories that I try to keep at the back of my mind , and going into this movie with slight expectations of the storyline reminded me of what a friends once said , that I'm a sucker for punishment . And yes , this movie dragged a bit , and moves along in cruise control , until the final act where it sledgehammers emotions all the way to an expected cliché ending . But it is the emotions and thoughts of modern day relationships that makes this movie quite depressing . Based on a short story written by actress Rene Liu herself , and adapted for the big screen by renowned actress / director Sylvia Chang , Happy Birthday , stripped bear of its emotions , is actually a vanilla plain love story which is done ad nauseam . It is the little nuances of the things people do , or do not , that rings the story home . Rene plays Mi , a girl who wears a smile on her face , but deep inside hides this grave insecurity . Louis Koo , more famous last year for his Johnny To triad outings and possibly treading the same path in the upcoming Derek Yee movie Protégé , stars as Rene's lover Nam , a boy who seems to be commitment phobic , the stud to whom the chicks flock to . Put them both together , and with their obvious personality differences , you'll come to expect a very rocky road ahead . But isn't love all about taking that initial leap of faith ? Watching the two get together , then not , and then some , makes it frustrating . But I felt herein lies probably some realism , at least for me in my limited experiences , of two people trying to get together , yet prevented from doing do because of self doubt , or the lack of courage to admit your feelings . Walls get built up , and both decided to be better than best friends , because then , nobody will get heartbroken if things do not work out . What gives ? It's back to the games people play . I find it easy to identify surprisingly with both characters . The fear I can feel , and the folly of deciding to wait I've done , or perhaps still doing ? And in my defenses I've set out to tell myself never to experience the type of heart sinking moments Mi felt when she learnt of good tidings from Nam . There will always remain a sense of curiosity , of wanting to maintain contact with your ex , or wanting to find out a bit more , but it's my take ( some may disagree ) to cut off ties completely ( ok , so sometimes I waver ) , lest we hurt or become hurt . It's tempting to dispense with the advice of telling someone you love them in case it becomes too late , especially after watching the movie and agreeing that holding back is one of the worst ways of handling relationships , but it's always easier to say than to do . You might be tempted to go forth and say it , however it's real life , and reality doesn't last just 1 hour and 45 minutes . I'm probably two minds about it though , with the counter argument being if you don't , you might spend equal time reminiscing on regret . Rene Liu and Louis Koo look like the model couple , and it's pretty hard to know that the former , with her pixie looking facial features , is actually already 37 years old . And both leads actually belt out some tunes for the movie , albeit some deliberately off key . The look of the film takes on an incredible soft focus feel from start to end , and that , while romantic and dreamy during certain scenes , will take a bit of time to get used to . Veteran Richard Ng also stars in the movie , as Mi's dad , and the supporting cast of Bowie Tsang , Lawrence Chou , and a host of others helped to lift the movie from its gloom . Happy Birthday might not be everyone's cup of tea given the style of delivery of its standard - story-with-clichéd-ending , but I guess if you open up your heart to it , you might find it a tad more enjoyable , and somehow , if you're that sentimental fool who's been there and done that , you'll feel that tinge of regret inside you .
A Nutshell Review : Poltergay	I'll have to admit that Poltergay is a lot of fun , for straight folks and gay folks alike . It's probably something that Kelvin Tong's Men in White could have been - smart , witty and with that level of cheekiness , without almost always falling flat on its jokes . If it could have been at least what Poltergay was , then it won't have to suffer the misery of a relatively poor box office , or DVDs that I think most people would stand around the shops to watch for free , rather than to purchase a copy for personal consumption . The plot for Poltergay is a no brainer . Married couple Marc ( Clovis Cornillac ) and Emma ( Julie Depardieu ) move into an old dilapidated house at a bargain price . While slowly converting it to livable conditions , it turns out that Marc begins to hear things ( extremely loud music at 0155hrs each time ) , before suddenly realizing there're 5 queer men living in his cellar . However , it seems that he's the only one who can see these fellas , and before you know it , he's branded mad , and runs into martial troubles because , well , it's a gay themed movie , so naturally , everyone around thinks that Marc is a closet gay , secretly fantasizing about men , and 5 of them no less ! What I liked about the movie is how it incorporated the gay moments into the story and the jokes quite seamlessly , and introduced perhaps in an extremely novel way , the rationale behind ghost-spotting . It certainly took the mickey out of a lot of things , and brought out some laughter in subtle , razor sharp manner . However it is not without its flaws , as the introduction was a tad too draggy , and I thought took about an hour before the pace and the comedy picks up , and suddenly , there was a big squeeze of plenty of smaller subplots into the last 30 minutes , including the resolution and finale . Essentially it boiled down to screwing up , wrecking havoc , before the ghouls decided to help Marc get back to this normal life again . And the ghouls were pretty hilarious in themselves , with their penchant for tight clothing , and their disco dancing ways to Boney M's Rasputin for instance , injecting a certain amount of retro disco energy when they get down to boogeying the night away . Their individual characters could not be any different from one another , with for instance , a closet heterosexual ( oh ! ) , a gay couple , one nursing a broken heart , and one who likes to replicate his male manhood at almost every conceivable object he can get his hands on . It didn't have to rely on crude toilet humour , nor plenty of slapstick moments to bring on the laughs . What it had was a refreshing take on the horror-comedy genre , with a twist of the queer for good measure . Like I mentioned , it's enjoyable fluff , good enough for those stressed out workdays where you need some light hearted relief to keep your sanity .
A Nutshell Review : Sandakan No . 8	Sandakan No . 8 is set in Borneo , East Malaysia in the 1970s , where a writer arrives in the hopes of doing research on the karayuki-san ( juvenile prostitute ) who thrive in the Japanese colonies in Southeast Asia in the early twentieth century . She finds her mark in aged Osaki , and like most documentarians , spend significant time trying to gain and win over trust using sincerity , and the audience have to bear with about a quarter of the movie dwelling on that building of the trust factor , before we can get transported back to the 1900s , following the life of Osaki as it gets recounted in a series of flashbacks . I suppose the nature of the subject of the Karayuki-san makes it both controversial and sensitive , and not something to be proud of . In fact , human trafficking to fuel the sex trade is nothing new ( and being made into movies such as My Name is Justine , or Lilya 4ever are nothing new too ) , but perhaps a shameful blip on the Japanese history to have done that to their own . Based on a non-fiction book by author Yamazaki Tomoko and an interview with a former Karayuki-san , you cannot help but see some parallels between some aspects of the story here , and that in Memoirs of a Geisha , though of course this movie came first since it was done in the 70s , and that one happened overseas , while the latter chronicles the life of a fictional geisha in Japan itself . A common thread would be that they all stemmed from a very pathetic family decision for survival , to have the young daughters sold away first as child labourers , before the passage of time makes them suitable to be pimped in order to repay quickly a lifetime of debt in which their families only get a fraction of . You can't help but be moved by Osaki's inability to better her lot , and you'll find yourself hard pressed not to be sympathetic towards her when she has to resign to her fate , being caught faraway from home , and doing things which are against her wishes . Then of course comes the cursory romance of her " true love " which naturally comes to naught , especially after performing some national service to visiting compatriots of the military . You'll feel for Osaki especially when she disregards good advice , and heads home to Japan only to be faced with discrimination from her own kin , the same ones whom she was sold away to help . The title referred to the brothel where Osaki was based in , with Sandakan being one of the towns in Borneo at the time , and the Japanese brothels were easily labelled from One to Ten . The film captures a snapshot of history of Borneo in the 70s , where the earlier Sandakan days seemed to have been recreated from man made sets . The movie might seem dated in its presentation and style , with little going on in the present day it is set with attempts to verify the facts that Osaki recounted , but the flashback scenes are nothing short of riveting even though the story might have already been told a couple of times in other forms . But in truth , the payload comes toward the end where the two lead characters finally connect at an emotional level , and at the very last scene , which was extremely poignant in its revelation .
A Nutshell Review : Blowup	Unfolding itself in about 24 hours , we follow Thomas ( Hemmings ) around in his Rolls Royce convertible , as he flits from frame to frame and scene to scene , playing up a prima-donna like attitude that we would like to generalize the skillfully famous into , jaded , and with attitude to boot . Young nubile girls throw themselves at him just to get favours and be photographed , and he couldn't care less about the perks of the job . We watch him in action , but for today's audience , I suppose I can't help but see some shades of Austin Powers in him as he directs waif like models to move according to his every wish . As he explains , he's jaded with photographing beautiful creatures , and dabbles in projects that bring out the not so flattering side of humankind . But nothing would have prepared him later in the day for what would seemingly be two lovers enjoying some quiet time in Greenwich park , where his voyeuristic tendency broke their tranquil quality time , and more . We do not know who the 2 lovers are , or if they are lovers to begin with . We do not know what happened immediately after , but we do know that the lady , played by Vanessa Redgrave , was extremely concerned over the photographs that Thomas took , and demands the negatives . And I though it was ironic that she mentioned about peace and privacy , concepts that in today's modern age would have gone out of the window , at least in London , which is widely recognized as the most photographed city with its unprecedented numbers of CCTV cameras in every nook and corner . And watching it in today's context , there was one scene I thought was like a reminder to oneself about stuff we call memorabilia . To those in the know , or share common interests , memorabilia have value that equates monetarily , to the amount that someone would think worthwhile to fork out in order to possess . People claw at one another to get their hands on stuff , and go absolutely crazy sometimes in order to possess . But outside of that occasional fanatical base , people don't really give two hoots about memorabilia , and it's as worthless as junk . Kind of put things in certain perspective , as I stare at my own memorabilia collection . There are plenty of such moments , of seemingly disparate scenes spliced together in a linear timeline as we follow Thomas in his not so typical day spiced up with a sense of mystery . It's like a snapshot of his life , or anyone's life , with the little things that stuff those 24 hours , like his dalliances with a married woman , his shopping at an antique shop , buying a propeller and later we learn of an ulterior motive of being there , his toying with bimbos , and the list goes on . I think for those interested in trying to decipher and dig to get more out of such scenes , Blowup beckons repeated viewings to try and further appreciate . But I suspect it would be doing what Thomas was doing . Staring hard at a spot , and thinking that something is worthwhile exploring a little further , blows it up / zooms into the details , and stare even more , while at the same time , taking a step backward , trying to reconnect the dots and put everything into perspective . I think some of the magic of the movie will be lost , if the story was told in today's age of digital technology . We won't experience the fascination of slow discovery , of skill and patience to get down into the details . Truth be told if remake today in today's world , it'll take no more than a minute with computer wizardry to zoom X-times to the details , and send it off to forums with experts who will analyze that photograph for you , before dispatching investigative teams to the said location armed with even more cameras and technology to put everything up online within the same period of time the movie unfolds . Obviously the charm which made the film work , will be lost . While the movie is set in the swinging 60s era , we don't really see much of it except for a few scenes where it goes full swing ( pardon the bad pun ) . One such scene was involving Peter Bowles as Ron , Thomas ' agent . I was reading an article by Bowles which was published by Guardian Film on 24 June 2005 , and reprinted in the Retrospective programme booklet ( which you must get your hands on for its sheer quality ! ) , was that a pivotal speech given by the Ron character , was left out and not filmed . It included what Bowles thought was a speech essential to the entire film and would have explained everything , which made perfect sense to Antonioni to not want to do it , therefore giving us what we have experienced today , something perplexing , and open to various interpretations . And yes , what about the famed and widely talked about mimed tennis game ? Played in silence and with plenty of imagination , I thought it was an introspective look at the film on the whole . For the most parts in the middle section , the dialogue stops , and that's when things start to get interesting , though providing absolutely no solution to the various thoughts and incidents played out , in a matter of fact manner . You'll probably have thoughts tangenting off one another about what the film would have meant , and sometimes too , these thoughts would have bounced off the boundaries of the game , and into the realms of questioning whether certain events actually happened or is a figment of imagination of an idle mind , looking for excitement to break monotony . He's more than operating alone in his discovery , and try as he may to share them with his agent , gets brushed aside , and nobody else sees what he saw anyway .
A Nutshell Review : The X = Files : I Want to Believe	It's not hard to imagine how time flies , when you realize that one of your best loved television series of all time had already ended its run , and you reminisce the times back when one of your weekend nights revolved around sitting in a bunk with your army mates , all glued to what Chris Carter had conjured as adventures for the two best known goggle box FBI agents , Fox Mulder ( David Duchovny ) and Dana Scully ( Gillian Anderson ) . While we always needed to crank up the volume to try and make sense of the murmurs involving shadow governments and secret conspiracies , our favourite episodes almost unanimously were those one-off ones , so called the " monster " episodes . And it's been 6 years since The End , and 10 years since the first X-Files movie hit the screen . While that movie was intricately linked to the major conspiracy thread , this movie , as the trailer led us to believe , was a one-off monster episode , or so I thought . While it's indeed a one-off episode , it's no monster of an episode in the mould of those in the television series , though it really felt like an extended , stand alone episode which gave us a slightly more in depth look at the dynamics of our beloved duo , especially what happened to them in the last few years they went off the FBI radar . But as the saying goes , you can't put a good man , and a lady , down for too long . This is a story about obsession . As we all know , Mulder's obsessed with everything X - classifiable , and in the years of absence , here comes an opportunity for a breath of fresh air when Agent Dakota Whitney ( Amanda Peet ) comes knocking to seek his expertise , as the FBI now has a case on their hands and a psychic , convicted pedophile of a Catholic Father Joseph Crissman ( Billy Connolly ) who volunteers key information to help in that case . The FBI isn't sure if Father Crissman is a liar , or worse , connected to the crime , and hence Mulder's help is to be their lie-detector . Naturally with religion and her usual cynicism in the mix , Scully is disgusted by the sheer presence of the religious felon , and thus set the stage for some conflict with her beau . Like an old , quarreling couple who can't seem to give way to each other , their philosophies clash as their interests - Scully battling the hospital system to save her young chronically ill patient - differ , and threaten to pull the couple apart . He thinks that she's not being supportive of his venturing into an X-case even though they're now civilians , while she thinks he's latching onto Father Crissman to use his prowess , if proved true , to find Samantha Fox . Which I thought would probably make an excellent sub plot , but alas the potential was dangled like a carrot in front of us , and then went totally off tangent . Don't expect any big sets or intricate subplots here , as it really looked like it's done on a shoestring budget , with the look and feel of a typical classic television episode , a two-parter in fact . There are strange aberrations of course , but all these go unexplained , and you know they're just going to be glossed over since everything will be wrapped up by the time the end credits roll . However , there are adequate moments to keep you at the edge of your seat , and some developments do enough to leave your mouth gaping wide open , especially those involving extreme medicine . David Duchovny does look more comfortable reprising his role as Mulder , but Gillian Anderson , as interviews have revealed , required a lot more time trying to get back into character , and this uneasiness unfortunately shows on screen . The chemistry's still not lacking , but given that their respective characters have aged and grown more comfortable with one another , gone are the tensions between them , though the problems that surface here did try to rekindle some of the opposition they felt during the course of their long running series . Chris Carter and X-Files regular scribe Frank Spotnitz did incorporate a nice surprise in the movie , so do keep your eyes peeled as you will silently cheer when it happens . But I thought what was a ghastly way to bid farewell , was the little coda toward the end of the credit roll , which somewhat signals the finale of everything , though in a very out of place manner . Anyhow , this X-Files movie episode isn't going to win any new fans over , but for X-philes , I'd bet we're probably just satisfied already with our heroes appearing in celluloid one more time , that no matter how wafer thin the plot is , it's not going to dampen our collective fan spirit . And to thank our lucky stars that Mark Snow's iconic theme song , didn't get played in the movie under the horrific techno rendition .
A Nutshell Review : Eden Lake	When outnumbered , move away . Split . Run . That's the golden rule when confronted by a gang of hooligans , or in the first place , not to kick start any interaction for that matter . Not that one's a coward , but the consequences and the hassle thereafter are never worth it . Swallow that pride and move away , because there's absolutely no shame in doing so . But I guess should one decide to take some action , to never take them on as a group , because crazed peer pressure to belong gives some intense mental strength that clouts morals . Unity is strength , and taking them on individually presents a much better chance at survival . Eden Lake refers to an idyllic scenic though unused quarry area that Steve ( Michael Fassbender ) brings his girlfriend Jenny ( Kelly Reilly ) to , in the hope that during their undisturbed stay away from the hustle and bustle , he can pop the question on bended knee and diamond ring . Things don't go according to plan because of a group of local ruffians who disturb their serene environment , and blame should go to the couple as well for unnecessarily stirring up the hornet's nest . Like The Strangers , the couple is ( deliberately by their own choosing ) alone and kept isolated from the outside world by their perpetrators . For something that should be a romantic outing , it degenerated quickly into petty tit-for-tat action-reaction , before going down the slippery slope into the chasm of what nightmares are made of . The couple is left to fend for themselves , and this is where it goes into some squeamish territory that's not for the faint - hearted . However , it's not like the usual Hollywood run of the mill horror flick , where the gorier it is the better . It's a nice departure thanks to writer-director James Watkins in not going over the top and pile on the gratuitous moments of blood and gore , but to build it up slowly for best results and impact . Sure there's plenty of violence , but the true horror here actually lies in the fact that these heinous crimes are conducted by teens who cannot comprehend the severity of their actions , and worse , the power of peer pressure in compromising any human decency left in them . It takes a sick mind too to be able to order the filming of their act as a form of collateral to keep everyone's mouths shut . It also points to the lack of quality parental upbringing , though it generally made a sweeping statement that rubbish parents give rise to rubbish offspring , given it's in their genes . But alas most of us are for the horror elements and not moral lessons , and like most horror flicks , the characters here do make the wrong moves so much so that you'd like to ask if they too are aware of the obvious common sense pitfalls - Watkins story does lapse into the occasional cliché moment and some none too subtle development dealing with trust . Unfortunately this film was censored at one point , though I believe it wasn't anything substantial to the entire plot . It's a cautionary tale and a perfect reminder to hot headed folks out there that one should never take on odds against your favour , especially when outnumbered , to avoid secluded places , and to know when to cut your losses and make a run for it !
A Nutshell Review : Goal II : Living the Dream	Living the Dream ? More like Living the Nightmare ! The first Goal movie brought plenty of cheers to football fans , who celebrated the coming of a decent movie about the beloved Beautiful Game . And it didn't disappoint , with a likable hero in Santiago Munez ( Kuno Becker ) in a rags to riches story , nifty footwork and camera-work , locales familiar to English Premier League fans , the seamless combination of real world match footage with fictional shots taken on match days , and access to seldom seen areas in and around the stadiums . The story of Santiago continues in this UK-Spain-Germany production , with the stage moving from England to Spain ( and to Germany of course for the World Cup ) . With the first movie centered on the domestic football league following Newcastle's season , the sequel brings us to the Spanish La Liga , and firmly the spotlight of matches put on Europe's Champions League games . It's a no-brainer that German involvement will be of course the World Cup which just ended last year , and given that this sequel is delayed , you'd still get to see Real Madrid's ex-galacticos like Roberto Carlos , Zinedine Zidane , David Beckham and Ronaldo , besides mainstayers like Iker Caillas and Raul Gonzalez , amongst others ( see if you can spot McManaman ! ) In a player swap deal with Michael Owen , we see Munez head to Real Madrid , in probably almost every footballer's dream to play for one of the biggest clubs in the world . And of course with hard nosed coach Rudi Van Der Merwe ( Rutger Hauer ) at the helm , our new recruit has to prove his worth before being handed some first team duties . But good friend and ex-Newcastle player Gavin Harris ( Alessandro Nivola ) is on hand at the club ( reference the first movie shall we ) to provide Munez some action , especially when Harris is running afoul with Rudi for his lost form . The football sequences here are rather straightforward , and more of the same we saw in the first movie , save for some spectacular , probably CG-ed movies like the volleys , overhead kicks and diving headers . The number of matches being featured too is much less , as the story wanted to focus on our player's life outside of football . You know , by putting all the press reports that you read day in day out of boozing , incessant partying , easy models who don't bat an eyelid looking to get between the sheets with the players , flashy sports cars , designer togs , mansions with numerous rooms , and the likes . Munez lives the dream in material wealth , although this starts to get into his head and takes a toil with his relationships , especially with girlfriend Roz ( Anna Friel ) . There are numerous subplots put into Goal 2 , but most times they are superficially touched upon for the sole purpose of covering the ground , and then forgotten conveniently , like the paparazzi photo - journalist , and various incidents on and off the pitch . What I thought slowed the movie down further , was the injection of Munez's typical stepbrother brat from hell , and mother , who were conspicuously absent in the first movie , then reintroduced here just to amplify the moments that try to touch the heart ( like in the first movie with the dad and grandmother ) , but one without which I feel would not make much of a difference . Couple this family reunion-reconciliation of sorts , together with his struggles with injury and attempts to shake off the " super-sub " tag , Munez has his hands full . While the other real life players do not have much speaking lines ( or none at all ) , you can't help but to feel both Kuno Becker and Alessandro Nivola being fish out of water in the Real Madrid dressing room , where either the charismatic players will undoubtedly get the audience attention with their antics or camaraderie which shines through , or clever editing and cinematography tells you that shots have been made with the clear exclusion of those players in some movie magic moments . The movie too seemed to like David Beckham , given plenty of scenes , befitting probably of his real last hurrah at the club before leaving them this summer . And for Arsenal fans like myself , while it's a blast to see the team featured in this movie , and the likes of Jose Antonio Reyes ( who incidentally played for Real Madrid few weeks ago and created then scored 2 crucial goals in their final league game to hand them the La Liga title ) , Robert Pires and a fictional TJ featured alongside our Captain Thierry Henry ( don't leave ! ) , the result is blasphemous as the last time we went head-on with Real , it was in the first knockout round 2 seasons ago where we triumphed 1-0 . So the scoreline at the end , well , it's actually living in the dream . Given that the ending is one of the technical worst that can happen , leading straight to the third installment , let's hope that the concluding chapter really does see the light of day . Not as polished as the first one with the novelty factor wearing off , but let's judge the series as a whole once the sequel screens . Excellent soundtrack once again , coupled with the usual product placement shots for Adidas .
A Nutshell Review : The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford	The long title of 10 words strike you initially , and besides having a mouthful of a title , the duration too is at a whopping 160 minutes , of which I can humbly suggest to trim it down to a more manageable 120 minutes . Based on the novel by Ron Hansen , the narrated parts which provided much of the needed background on Jesse Jame coupled with key timelines , were somehow more enjoyable than the rest of the movie itself . For some reason , the voice-over , repetitive ( like a one-trick pony , though beautifully haunting ) score and soft visual focus provided it with some form of documentary styled legitimacy , only to be hampered by the more clunky delivery on some of the more dramatic aspects . This is not to say that the actors were below par in their fleshing of the characters , but you can sense a deep attempt in trying to emulate styles like Terence Mallick's , in crafting a movie which lingered with still visuals , silence , with unquestionably wonderful cinematography . Our notion of Jesse James is probably one of an outlaw of the wild west who's quick on the draw as well as being a notorious robber / killer molded into the Robin Hood reputation . There are plenty of different interpretations of Jesse James , but none comes so interesting or as intense as Brad Pitt's . Through his confident swagger and suspicious demeanour , here's a man who precedes his reputation , who is clear as crystal in knowing what's he doing , and what the risks are , but nonetheless human prone to err after all . However , the film's focus was presumably put more on Robert Ford ( Casey Affleck ) , the wide eyed recruit who joins Jesse's gang , and that became a dream come true as it presents an opportunity to work with his idol . And his idolization becomes a strange obsession , as he draws physical parallels between Jesse and himself , that makes even Jesse himself edgy and uncomfortable , even questioning at one point if Robert just wants to be like him , or be him . Hence sparks the crazed suspicion and like the adage says , it's better to keep friends close , and your enemies closer . I thought Sam Rockwell stole the show from both Casey Affleck and Brad Pitt in his portrayal of Charley Ford , which reminds me of a Chinese adage of pretending to be a pig to eat the tiger . His Charley is clearly no simpleton , but his depiction of being one probably led to his being able to survive for a long while , when Jesse slowly dispatches the others . But what took the cake , was his spot on impersonation of not only Brad Pitt , but of Pitt's portrayal of Jesse James as well , in a scene so short , but nonetheless quite pivotal leading to the final moments of the movie . There are a few points you must note about the movie . I felt that the full house audience didn't really know what to expect , thinking that it's Pitt on screen , and his presence actually drew in the crowds . And while everyone's waiting for the title incident to happen , they discovered that they're waiting too long . Bear in mind the film runs more than 2 . 5 hours , and you have to be incredibly patient to get there . I felt a little sorry for the masses who walked out , especially those who did so just before the turn of events , and thereon the pace actually quickened , though covering nothing more than what you can read from encyclopedias under 5 minutes . Those expecting big shoot-em-outs and action sequences like 3 : 10 to Yuma will also be disappointed , as the action here is never stylized , just presented as a matter of fact for cowboys in that era . Gun fights , if you can call them that , are so extremely ordinary , you'll find yourself more amazed by the intricate weapon design , and the plenty of gunpowder used which explains the plumes of smoke , coupled with the primitive , unsophisticated basic revolver that affects accuracy . Instead , what this movie is , is a well crafted and very measured piece of drama that tells the tale of a legendary outlaw , and his heinous betrayal .
A Nutshell Review : Look for a Star	You know Valentine's Day is just around the corner when the screens begin to fill with movies designed specifically to commemorate the day . You got to salute the filmmakers of Look For A Star for keeping faith with a formula that doesn't seem to tire , and I guess it has legs to travel especially when you have the charismatic and still youthful looking Andy Lau ( he doesn't look like he's pushing 50 ) romancing Shu Qi in a rather fantasy like premise , and still keep it rather appealing because love is in the air . The obscenely rich man falling for the poor girl isn't anything new to begin with , just one of the many combinations to have your lead protagonists background set for an opposites attract . Like what Hollywood had with Pretty Woman , and what Bollywood recently had in Ghajini starring Aamir Khan . In fact , the love story here does have parallels with the latter , since the rich man , through a series of assumptions , managed to hide his identity from his lady love , one of the reasons being it makes perfect sense to test if that somebody falls for you because of who you are , and not the size of your bank account . So Andy Lau plays Sam Ching , a billionaire developer with his sights firmly set with projects in Macau , one of which happens to be the MGM Grand . While wondering the casino tables , he chances upon Shu Qi's Milan , a sassy ( what else ? ) cabaret dancer cum part-time dealer at the baccarat table , who catches his eye because she seems to dispense good advice to gamblers to avoid borrowing or even gambling , which means lesser profits for the company of course . For her , it's the assumption that he's one of the many poor souls who chain themselves to the gambling table , and helps out the complete stranger by sending him to the pier in order to leave Macau . Directed by Andew Lau , better know for many a crime thriller flick and who last helmed a romance flick Sausalito some 9 years ago , this story would have sagged a bit if not for its intelligent fusing of 2 more sets of lovers . Cindy Tang and James Yuen's story had attempted to be an ensemble off love stories of sorts , and having 3 here is more than a handful to handle , which was pulled off quite effortlessly by Andrew Lau . It's a romantic movie with the central one being that of Sam and Milan , and the other two stemmed from Sam's trusted assistants , company secretary Jo ( Denise Ho ) and personal chauffeur Tim ( Lam Ka Wah ) . While Sam Ching the character may pass off as rather hard to read initially , when together with Tim and Jo the trio share the same problem in their love life , which generalizes that the busy and the well to do , have some vastly different concerns when thinking of getting hitched . In fact , this would have alienated the average joe folks in the audience I felt , if not for all their heartfelt performances . Denise Ho brought out some vivid alpha-female tendencies while being pursued by a lowly maintenance guy Lin Jiu ( Zhang Hanyu ) , in an arc which I thought was the most touching of the lot , while Tim's dalliances with a divorced woman ( Shannon Fok ) whom he met on a blind date set up by Sam , happened to be the most clichéd and given the shortest screen time . It's an examination into how love can transcend status only if you allow it to , without giving two hoots about what others want to think and read into things , and the set romantic pieces being smartly engineered to well the heart and the eyes with tears at the appropriate moments . Such opportunities get exploited when Sam's status gets revealed , which turns the movie into a more interesting direction . However , the only jarring bit , which you can experience from the audience's very audible quizzing , was why the need to introduce the dominating mom and ex-wives complication , which doesn't exactly get addressed properly , throwing up more questions about the character of Sam , and at certain moments do confirm his rather chauvinistic ways . Macau itself is a beautiful backdrop for a romantic film , and having been there , I'd dare say this film captured the nice looking side of it , especially with the plenty of postcard perfect pictures of having the brightly lit casinos like the MGM Grand , Venetian , Wynn's and the unmistakably prominent Lisboa peppering the landscape . The Macau Tourism Board should be pleased with his effort . And also pleasing to Hong Kong cinephiles would be the long - time-no-see appearances of Maria Cordero , David Chiang , Rebecca Pan and George Lam taking on supporting roles here . It's one of those feel good romantic movie that doesn't do no wrong , and clocking in at almost two hours , I felt that the last act involving the game show , was something that came out of fantasy , which on one hand would seem rather implausible , but on the other necessary in order to swiftly wrap up all the loose threads in one fell swoop . As it turned out it's rather enjoyable , and should make for a perfect date movie with that special someone of yours . Just remember to bring along some tissues too .
A Nutshell Review : The Flock	Hong Kong directors crossing over to Hollywood to make movies is nothing new , with the temporary exodus of the likes of Tsui Hark , John Woo , Ringo Lam in the 90s . From their collective output , only a few movies ( or may I say just one ? ) made an impact at the box office . The Andrew Lau and Alan Mak partnership has been a tour de force in recent HK cinematic history , especially with their now famous Infernal Affairs trilogy which was remade into Martin Scorsese's The Departed , so it's no surprise when Hollywood comes knocking on the door . But without fellow collaborator Mak , who usually has script / story duties , how did Lau fare with writers Hans Bauer and Craig Mitchell ? It's like the X-Files without the X , in the way the story is crafted , the characters and the parallels drawn with the Chris Carter series . Richard Gere and Claire Danes pair up ala David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson , only that they don't belong to any federal investigative agency who bear arms , but are employees of Protective Services , who's chief role is to ensure that sexual predators who belong to their jurisdiction , are kept safe from society when they are released from having served time . Hence they are the shepherds tending to their flock , only that their flock suffer from sick sexual perversion with the propensity for violence . The parallels in characterization are so blatantly obvious , that it's just a cosmetic touch up on the outside . Like Fox Mulder , Gere's Erroll Babbage is a strange , lonely man , consumed by his obsession in his quest to doggedly harass his flock to tote the line . Pained by a failed attempt to rescue a missing child , just like how Mulder pines for his missing sister , Babbage is shunned by colleagues and given the marching orders disguised as a retirement plan . He has deep disgust for the people he's monitoring , sick of their crimes and what they stand for , that he has no qualms in using unorthodox methods , short of flying off the handle while dishing out illegal , preemptive punishment . At the same time , he too has strong urges that he has to fight against , in order not to cross the line into becoming like those he loathes . As part of routine , he also scans newspapers and tabloids for clues and leads toward his objective , that of seeking closure , salvation for himself , and possessing a strong belief that the truth is still out there , and he wants to believe . Danes ' Allison Lowry on the other hand , is the ingénue brought in to replace Babbage . But in the meantime while learning the ropes on the job for the next 18 days , she is required to spy on him , and to report his shenanigans , pretty much like what Dana Scully was tasked to do with Fox Mulder . As the disbeliever of pre-emptiveness and holding onto the notion that those discharged back to society have been cured of their temptations , she slowly starts to see what Babbage sees , and understands that it takes a whole lot more than being just a desk and administrative job if she truly wants to help people . And it is this discovery of the world of fetishes and deviant sexual practices , that we open all our eyes to , much like how 8mm starring Nicolas Cage brought snuff films into the spotlight . It's a decent investigative drama with the usual red herrings , and my , are they really good ones as it made you wonder quite often if your guesses are correct , and you soon find yourself firing from the hip as you get proved incorrect at alarming frequency , though I don't credit this to a tight narrative , but more from the sprawling number of characters ( watch out for Avril Lavigne's cameo ) and sub plots . The scene in the darkened ware / shophouse was akin to Se7en's David Mills and William Somerset when they raided John Doe's apartment and find plenty of bizarreness inside , though here , given the subject nature , it wasn't lingered upon much . Apparently , The Flock somehow decided that Enrique Chediak's cinematography was good enough , despite its very strange style of having no style , utilizing almost every trick in the book to try and recreate feelings of watching another Se7en , only that this was deeply steeped in tinges of brown , rather than the doom and gloom of black . It does take a little while to get used to this , and I put this effect as one which actually distracts from what is happening in the story . Not a really good move though , with somewhat frequent repetition of scenes involving flashbacks . But The Flock still makes decent entertainment , though X-philes out there would probably find it hard not to picture their favourite actors in the lead roles , given so much similarities in character . Gere and Danes do put forth some chemistry as the old fogey ( heh ) and his protégé , and while it's not exactly great , Andrew Lau did manage to pull off something enjoyable .
A Nutshell Review : Crossing Over	Like Crash , Fast Food Nation and Babel before it , Crossing Over consists of multiple story lines bound together by a common theme examined , sometimes with just a few characters straddling across the narrative threads to link them up explicitly . Writer-director Wayne Kramer examines the issues behind the illegal immigrant problem in USA who are either trying to lay low in avoiding the law , or trying their best to gain legal residency with each experiencing different challenges that lie ahead in their quest . And it's quite ambitious for Kramer to try and pull off no less than seven parallel threads in the film , which to a certain extent I felt was largely successful , despite some being almost peripheral if not for the presence of a recognized star . Anchored by Harrison Ford as Max Brogan , an Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) agent , the film weaves in and out of the different threads without feeling too forced , or the need for some compulsory and carefully designed moments to link the stories up intricately . Sometimes like the six degrees of separation , the film captures the fact that we don't have full details of that web of links , and it will feel very artificial if everyone knew everyone else , or if one event would impact severely on another . In any case , each of the story lines were engaging enough , some employing deep emotions to argue their case , while others even had to build to a crescendo of all out action , such as a supermarket shootout ( one of the nicely executed ones I've seen ) . There's an illegal Mexican woman ( a very short role by Alice Braga ) who begs Ford's Max to look after her young son in the care of unfriendly relatives , a Jewish musician ( Jim Sturgess ) who's waiting to qualify for residency and willing to do just anything to get there , his Australian girlfriend ( Alice Eve ) and Hollywood actress wannabe who had granted 2 months worth of on-demand sexual favours to an Immigration official ( Ray Liotta ) in exchange for a green card , whose wife ( Ashley Judd ) wants to adopt a child placed in a detention centre , who meets an Iranian girl ( Summer Bishil whose essay failed to condemn the terrorists of and gotten her and her family into hot soup . Then there's a Korean family who is waiting to be naturalized whose eldest son got involved with thugs ( ala Gran Torino rites of passage style ) , and another ICE agent ( Cliff Curtis ) whose family cannot stand their estranged sister whom they feel is a disgrace of their values , tradition and custom by adopting the lifestyle of Americans , yet strangely ironic as they too pursue to be American citizens . Phew , and all this with a little murder mystery thrown into the mix as well . It's about how one aspires to live in a country , yet uncompromising in one's position to adopt and adapt to the new environment . Which brings about some xenophobia , especially if one's too different from the rest , and things are made worst with the citizens unwilling to understand and lend assistance in assimilation to a new country and its idiosyncrasies . But what seemed to be a common theme here , is how power can be either used to do what's probably morally right , versus abusing it for personal gain . Given three of the lead characters here are law enforcement or in responsible positions in government agencies , it's easy to abuse privilege , and it's nothing new too , even in local context , where sexual favours get traded for leniency or the closing of an eye pertaining to illegal workers , or those here without the proper papers . And since the law is fixed ( and sometimes perverse by those who interpret it ) , and justice blind , I suppose there are times we may be compelled to lend a hand to a stranger out of nothing but on humanitarian grounds , in doing what's right and decent for a fellow human being . Crossing Over presents many of such situations and while it may be a mixed bag in its narrative , it certainly pushes the right buttons with its star-studded ensemble cast in making the audience think about , empathize with , and examine if the issues presented could have existed in the local context , with similar challenges in the treatment of those who are illegal immigrants .
A Nutshell Review : Star Wars : The Clone Wars	I guess in all fairness , the reviewer for a Star Wars movie should declare which side of the fence he's on , whether he thinks the Original Trilogy was the best thing since buttered toast and the Prequels were utter trash , or ambivalent to the fact that George Lucas is an expert at massaging the fat udders of cash cows , what with his special editions , tweaks and re-releases that continue to confound even his most loyal of fans . I belong to the latter , and for one am willing to give this movie a shot , even though the general crowd decide to give this a miss and wait for the DVD , since after all , this has its origins in being a pilot episode for an upcoming animated series . In a theatre of less than 10 persons on a Friday evening , the response to this film does not bode well , even though it had inputs from the Lucasfilm Animation Singapore studio , and a whole host of Asian creative talent in its credit roll . I thought as a movie it still entertained , but somehow something was missing , that elusive X-Factor of the Force that makes this a Star Wars movie . Perhaps it is the missing 20th Century Fox fanfare , given the change in distributor . One never misses the full regalia of the Fox logo unveiling itself , before the ubiquitous " A long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away " , and the Title coming up close on screen to John William's majestic opening score , and the unique scrolling text summarizing the prologue . What we got instead was to start things off with Starship Troopers styled ra-ra , and a narrator ( horrors ! ) taking over prologue duties . Those were some of my initial petty gripe , as I slowly came to terms with the notion that while this is a different direction the animated film is ( or films are ) taking , it still had George Lucas executive producing it , and under his watchful eyes , it is still canon . Yes , it finds itself a rightful place within the established mythos , and I guess with a title like Clone Wars , there can be revenue generating episodes and installments that can continue like , forever . Not to mention the numerous ideas for characters and objects to get thrown about , linking to the ka-chings of cash registers from Legos to collectible figurines . Story wise , it sits snugly in between Episodes 2 and 3 , though I'm not sure where the initial Clone War animated episodes will fall into , though likely before this movie . In efforts to save cost in getting the numerous stars back to voice their roles , we only get 3 characters in Mace Windu , C-3PO and Count Dooku voiced by the original actors in Samuel L . Jackson , Anthony Daniels and Christopher Lee . The rest got new voices playing them as best as they can , and frankly if you were to close your eyes , some of them came close , except perhaps for Matt Lanter who doesn't really sound as convincing as Hayden Christensen . The Clone Wars continue deep in the galaxy , and both Count Dooku and Lord Sidious continue the expansion of their plot to take over the universe . This time it involves the Hutt family , and the object of tussle happens to be Hutt's infant son , as both the Jedis and the Sith / Trade Federation engage in a chess battle to scheme and counter-scheme for Jabba's trust ( and deep stupidity and folly I might add ) in order to gain control of supply chain type of advantage in the Wars . While the plot is kept simple to follow , it still managed to weave some genuine tension into the scheme of things , even though we know that certain characters have god-like invulnerability ( due to their presence in Episode 3 ) , but we aren't too sure of the fate of new characters , such as Ahsoka Tano ( voiced by Ashley Eckstein ) , Anakin's new padawan learner . This time round it continues the focus on Anakin's development as Jedi Knight and now a master with a fledgling under his tutelage , so we see how one complements the other , even though both are equally as impetuous and reckless . Obi-wan Kenobi ( James Arnold Taylor ) takes a back seat , although the opening action sequence continue the good rapport between teacher and student , before things go downhill as we all know in Episode 3 . Some might complain about the lack of sophistication in the quality of animation , but I guess this is something that the character designers had decided upon . There's a permeating and general sense of doom and gloom in how the picture always has this dark shade overcast on it , as if to continue to forbade the bad fortune the Jedis are getting themselves into , oblivious to obvious traitors in their midst , and even though with each small victory , continue to play to the sinister ploys of the Sith . Those who hate the Prequels will continue to hate this piece of work just for the fact that it's based on the same timeline , but for me , I thought it managed to pull it off and came through convincingly despite the immense juggernaut of work that came before it , and firmly positions itself amongst them , just like how Ashoka relentlessly aims to prove her worth amongst the established Jedi generals in the Wars . I for one , am looking forward to any next installments on the big or small screens , even though I have a bad feeling about Ahsoka given her lack of presence in Episode 3 . I hope I'm wrong .
A Nutshell Review : Prime	Perhaps this was touted as a romantic comedy with a psycho-analytical character thrown in , kind of like Analyse This and Analyse That . Put the characters in a crazy premise , and see how their relationship work out . Meryl Streep stars as Lisa , a psychologist to Uma Thurman's Rafi , who , unknowingly to both , is dating her son David . Rafi's just been freshly divorced , and has only Lisa to talk to about her problems , and new life found when she met a new man in her life . She lies about David's age ( increased it from 23 to 27 ) , and wonders if a younger man would be suitable for her . You know it's situational comedy time when Lisa finds out about the truth , and discovers that she's caught between maternally protecting her son from a non-Jewish girl and frowning upon their relationship , and the conflict of interest between herself as a professional , and her client . While the trailers seemed to suggest that most of the film will dwell on this aspect , and provide many laughable moments , this film is actually more serious that it looks in examining two major issues - that of religion , and the age gap between lovers . David is an aspiring artist who's bumming around in life , until he met Rafi and moves in with her . While initially a novelty - Rafi enjoys and exhilarates about the sex and his manhood to Lisa ( uh oh ) , though through cohabitation she starts to discover that David is still immature in his manners , and this gets personified in a hilarious scene where he prefers to spend more time on his Nintendo . Being 37 , she feels her biological clock ticking , and wonders if she would be selfish to impose on David and have him grow up quickly . Given the age gap , it's also about sacrifices that one would make to bridge the difference , especially in expectations from the relationship ( though in the beginning , it's all about the sex ) . Like most romances , boy meets girl , boy woos girl , boy falls out of favour with girl . David has issues with telling his estranged mother about his relationship with Rafi , first because of their 14 year age gap , but more importantly , he knows that religion will play a major part in having her accepted as part of the family . Which makes you wonder about real life romances as well , the role of religion in a relationship , if it has the power to make , or break . Uma Thurman is already 35 , but still looks ravishing on screen , despite a few visible wrinkles . Newcomer ( well , TV veteran ) Bryan Greenberg holds his own as the young adult David Bloomberg , especially against veteran Meryl Streep . Prime is a bittersweet tale , and I find it set in realism . Gone are the overplayed lovey-dovey moments , and I welcome the fact that with every relationship there are issues , and the major ones are the obstacles which determine if the relationship can survive , or not .
A Nutshell Review : Feast	Feast is your typical monster movie , and in watching this , you'll appreciate the richness of The Host , which itself also belongs to the genre , but smashes all stereotype of how a monster movie should be . But that doesn't mean Feast is not fun - it is , even though it's the usual formula , because it doesn't try to be anything more sophisticated than that . The story and action starts immediately , and I mean immediately , at least after a no-frills super summarized introduction to all the players involved with the use of character titles . What will set the tone here , is that the introduction is highly comical , and gets the job done in a no-frills manner , so much so that most of the characters don't have names , but rather are named after caricatures , like Hero for obviously the Hero , and Honey Pot for a busty blonde chick ( a staple in slasher-horror-thrillers ) . It's reminiscent of movies like Dog Soldiers ( the beasts ) , From Dusk Till Dawn ( the stand off and the fight back ) and Tremors , having a band of men and women finding themselves stranded in a bar in the middle of nowhere , fending off strange creatures who have a thirst for live human meat . And trust us humans to be bickering and infighting for self preservation , survival of the fittest first , with guns ablazing as guarantee . Expect plenty of gore and blood splattering across the screen , and credit must be given , that most of the time the attacks happen when you least expect them to . So if you're trying to guess who survives , the more challenging game will be to guess who ' s next . One gripe I have though , is that the monsters can't be seen in their full glory at any one point in time throughout the movie . The lighting conditions ( it all happened in a single night you see ) don't offer much visibility , and having speed as the creature's attribute also disallows them to be seen much . You will catch glimpses of it though , when they're humping ( yes they have sex ! ) or during the quick finale , but I suppose you're better off with some picture stills out there on the net , if you want to see just how horrible they look . What also peeved me , is for all the advancement in special effects , this movie opted for the low budgeted stop motion creature movement for some of the long shots - which of course looked too cheap . The movie doesn't bother to try and explain how or why the monsters come about , and frankly speaking , who cares ? If you're up for some mindless gory movies with room for you to perform a body count , then Feast might be your banquet of choice . Only playing at GV Vivocity and Plaza . And yes , stay tuned after the initial end credits roll ( less than 10 seconds ) for an additional scene .
A Nutshell Review : 10 , 000 B . C .	I guess not everyone has the audacity like Mel Gibson in taking risks related to the language used in their movies , for artistic integrity reasons . Passion of the Christ and Apocalypto both did not have their characters spout English , and had subtitles for the audience to rely on instead . And for a movie based in the era that its title states - 10 , 000 years before the birth of Christ - I do not suppose for one instance that our ancestral forefathers back in those days speak simple English , if at all . Then again , this is entertainment for the masses we're talking about . The main draw of 10 , 000 BC was of course the interaction of man and humongous , dangerous beasts of the time , and how through ingenuity in our natural ability to milk the Earth to make tools , mankind has ruled the Earth until now . But if like me you're expecting huge action pieces involving mammoths and sabre tooth tigers , what you get in their place are gentle elephants who go on a rampage no different from having computers plaster the correct bodykits over stampeding bulls , and a sabre tooth tiger count of ONE , and a pussy cat at that too . In essence , 10 , 000 BC tells of so simple a story , you'll believe that back then even hunky guys have their work cut out when they're going after the girl of their dreams . It's basically boy chases girl across the vast mountains and plains of the known world , because he had chosen to honour integrity than to win her hand over a mistaken recognition of bravery . And naturally to make our hero D'leh ( Steven Strait ) regret this decision , his lady love Evolet ( Camilla Belle ) and his fellow villages get enslaved and marched to Egypt to build pyramids for the gods ( OK , so I'm stretching that last statement ) . Villains are extremely weak , as they just have to look menacing without actually bringing across the feeling of immense threats that could be fatally carried out . Before you say that it's a carbon copy of the plot in Mel's Apocalypto and many others ranging as far back as Stargate , while Apocalypto had a man trying to save his family , this one's more of a pursuit of individual interests . And through his quest , a hero within D'leh will arise in a sort of coming of age tale of a prophetic savior who will lead everybody to salvation and to the promised land . Yes , tales of The One cliché get plastered at every possible instance that you'll roll your eyes when the plot tries to throw some red herrings along the way in meek attempts to spice things up . And as each prophecy get explained , the more ridiculous it becomes , and when an ancient badly rendered drawing is shown carved against a rock in colour , you know that this is supposed to be one cartoony movie after all . Throw in some pathos about a long lost father , sacred weapons , and even a memorable fight scene in a bamboo forest ( I kid you not this time ) , you'll have enough material here to feel a sense of familiarity throughout the story , surviving on the novelty of having set some thousands of years ago . One thing you'll learn though , is that it pays being a gatherer and hunter with excellent javelin skills , and even Leonidas will have to kowtow to .
A Nutshell Review : Dreamship Surprise	This movie is so insanely gay ! And I mean it in both sense of the word . No wonder this comedy broke the German box office with its madcap , low-brow , at times , crass humour . But it's all in good fun . If you're looking for a plot , be reminded that a spoof-fest only has an outline of what resembles a story . The story's not award winning material to begin with , and it was never the intention of doing so . In the future , Earth has colonized Mars , and some aliens aren't happy with it , so war is declared on the Earthlings . Somehow , Earth's last hope lies in the hands of Dreamship Surprise and its crew of merry men , led by the gayish Captain Kork , and equally feminine-like officers Mr Spuck and Schrotty . Needless to say , the crew of Dreamship Surprise is a complete spoof of Star Trek's Starship Enterprise crew , right down to the uniform , the multi-racial crew , and the technology available on board . Serious Trekkies might not take this too kindly though , to see their beloved franchise taken to " new " heights . To save Earth from the aliens , the team has to travel back in time to prevent the discovery of alien lifeforms in Area 51 . But it's made more difficult when Kork and crew are more interested in their rehearsals for an upcoming Miss Waikiki competition ( don't ask ) . Which is crazy I tell you . If you think that the Chicken Little ad now showing in theatres is cute , you haven't seen nothing yet ! Spoofing obvious movies like Star Wars - pod-racing , battleships hovering in orbit , the Jedi Council , Coruscant , Queen Amidala , Han Solo , Emperor Palpatine , Darth Vader , Stormtroopers , the list goes on , and Star Trek - the main leads , there are also numerous references to movies like Austin Powers ( the phallic-shaped starship ) , Back to the Future ( time travel ) , Minority Report and even A Knight's Tale . Spoofing and combining key characters from Star Wars and Star Trek have been attempted before in Hollywood comedies , but definitely not in the manner that Dreamship Enterprise had . Stay tuned during the credits , where some blooper scenes are shown , and if you stay until the end of the credits , you'll be rewarded with yet another short hilarious scene . Definitely recommended for an evening after a hard day's work .
A Nutshell Review : The Fox and the Child	From the filmmakers who brought us The March of the Penguins , I guess that came with plenty of expectations for The Fox and the Child . From the harsh winters of the South Pole to the lush wilderness in France , the narrative now becomes part documentary and part fairy tale , which tells of the friendship between the two titular characters , Renard the fox and its friendship with the child who christened it , played by Bertille Noel-Beuneau . The story's frankly quite simple , and at times this movie would have looked like the many Japanese movies which children-miscellaneous animals striking a friendship after the development of trust , and how they go about hanging around each other , dealing with respective adversaries and the likes . Here , the child meets the elegant fox near her home up in the mountains , which provide for plenty of beautiful picture-postcard perfect shots that a cinematographer will have to go into overdrive to capture . But while we indulge in wistful scenery , the characters don't get to establish that level of trust from the onset , and we have to wait a few seasons to past , and 45 minutes into the film , before they find a leveler in food . The child persistently attempts at striking a bond with the objective of taming the creature for her own amusement , but the fox , well , as other notions of course . While I thought the narrative was pretty weak , unlike March of the Penguins which has that human narrative interpretation of what's happening on screen , what excelled here were the documentary elements of the movie , tracing the life and times of the fox as both a predator , and a prey . Between the two , more tension and drama was given to the latter , especially when dealing with traditional foes like wolves , and granted , those sequences were fairly intense especially when the child got embroiled in it . Otherwise , it was plain sailing and quite a bore as the two of them go about their playing with each other , in shots that you know have undergone some movie magic editing . There were surprisingly dark moments in the movie that weren't really quite suitable for children , as those in the same hall attested to it by bawling their eyes out suddenly , so parents , you might want to take note and not let your toddler disturb the rest of the movie goers . As a film , I would've preferred this to be a complete documentary ala The March of the Penguins , but I guess the way it was resented , probably had the objective of warning us not to meddle with nature , and that some things are just not meant to be , and should stay as such . Decent movie that leaned on the strength of the chemistry between Bertille Noel - Bruneau , and the multiple foxes that played Renard .
A Nutshell Review : Zoolander	I am five years late . Just as I was so prepared to watch a Ben Stiller caper , with the posters all up at local theaters , the movie disappeared from the radar , and was banned in Singapore . Why ? Because the plot was about a fashion model being brainwashed ala The Manchurian Candidate to assassinate the Malaysian Prime Minister . Why ? Because Malaysia was being used as a sweatshop that hires child labor to manufacture cheap garments created by the western fashion houses , and they are not happy that the PM has outlawed working children . Hence the insane sounding plot right in the beginning . However , someone forgot to tell Ben that the Malaysian footage didn't look like Malaysia , but more like Tiananmen Square . Where got wave banners like that ? Got space meh ? But since we're friendly neighbors of Malaysia , when they banned it , we banned it too , to show solidarity . Anyway , for refusing to watch illegal downloaded copies , I was finally rewarded when GV decided to screen it here ( no more ban ? why now ? ) for a limited period , even though I suspect since it's a Village Roadshow production , why let it collect dust in the archives ? Ben Stiller co-created and plays Derek Zoolander , male model of the year 3 times in a row , with that killer Blue Steel look - an anal retentive look which actually seduces and is popular with the crowd . As most would already know , this comedy parodies almost everything about the fashion industry , like how himbotic male models can be , and amplified that dumbness more than 100 % . Zoolander loses his crown to up and coming male model Hansel ( played by Owen Wilson with long flowing locks , surfer dude style ) , and decides to retire . But since the chief villain and fashion guru Mugatu ( Will Ferrell ) requires a dim-witted model to be his assassin ( they have buff muscular bodies , and listen to instructions ) , his assistant Katinka ( Milla Jovovich , yummy ) brings Zoolander to a secret day spa to be brainwashed , and ready to be a killing machine during the opening of the Derelicte line of clothes . Real life Mrs Stiller Christine Taylor plays Matilda , a nosy journalist who tails Zoolander to try and get to Mugatu , and gets entangled in the assassination plot . But don't worry , the storyline isn't as complex as I've described . It's filled with plenty of insane subplots and scenes , like Zoolander's retirement decision to join his dad and brother ( Jon Voight , and an uncredited Vince Vaughn , who doesn't speak a word ) , an orgy of sorts with dwarfs , and even a walk-off competition between Zoolander and Hansel , with closure that comes straight out of Stephen Chow's campy movies . The real scream actually comes from the dozens of cameo appearances of the who's-who in the fashion and entertainment industry . Just as a flavor , there's Karl Lagerfield , Donald Trump , Tom Ford , Natalie Portman ( who declares her love for Zoolander ) , Winona Ryder ( who tries to seduce Zoolander ) , Gwen Stefani , Heidi Klum , Fabio , Fred Durst , Paris Hilton ( ! ) , Victoria Beckham , and even Billy Zane . You can refer to IMDb to get the entire list of credited and uncredited appearances . But what's the icing on the cake is David Duchovny's role as an X-File-ish character straight from his Fox Mulder days . Simply brought back the memories , in a funny way , including the many 80s and 90s pop music injected into the movie . So for those who have held out to finally experience Zoolander's new Magnum look , this is your chance . The movie might be dated , but it sure doesn't feel that way . Great fun .
A Nutshell Review : The International	The trailer had set up The International as some big-bang espionage thriller , made all the more sexier since it's released in the middle of this financial meltdown we're all experiencing , asking where have all the money gone , with banks collapsing left , right and centre , or on the brink of doing so if tons of public funds are not injected into the rabbit hole of the system that hasn't really bottomed out yet . But then again , watching or theorizing if the premise is remotely possible , since it involves a corrupt bank gone rogue in some misguided vision to make more profits , or to gain control of debt in third world economies , might not sit well with an audience already in doom and gloom , given some moral ambiguity all around , and the half-baked ending too . I have enjoyed a number of Clive Owen films , especially those that he's the smarty-pants , able to whip up roadblocks for his adversary . It's a departure for him here , and for fans I guess as well , with his Louis Salinger , an ex-Scotland Yard and current US Department of Justice agent , being quite the loser and always one step behind the bad guys . He can operate an Uzi , but needs more practice at a target range . Investigations wise , he's as frustrated as anyone caught up in office politics and the drawing of jurisdictions , and has a shady past he's not proud of . Which somehow adds to the credibility of the character . A super-agent would have spotted the assassin based on simple memory recollection , but here , he's flawed , which makes him all the more believable . Naomi Watts too as his tag-team partner Eleanor Whitman seems more at home behind the office desk , though sad enough her character's the proverbial Flower Vase , decorative and nice to look at , but offering nothing much in terms of character and story development , other than to cover the rear of Salinger in the office boardroom . Basically the film offered some thinking points , and makes you wonder if any large corporations , if without proper governance , could be susceptible to a moral rot from within , controlled by the few at the apex of the organization , making dubious decisions to proliferate arms and motivate political takeovers ? with coups and assassinations being but tools of the trade , and all these need money , which banks have loads of in their vaults . And bringing down banks isn't easy because of the multiple stakeholders being involved , from the humble depositors , to states and nations . In terms of production values , this Tom Tykwer film doesn't scrimp , jet-setting the cast throughout Europe ? Italy , Luxembourg , Germany and Turkey ? in living up to its namesake . The musical score is also notable for its perfectly crafted tune to keep you at the edge of your seat , only for the narrative to fizzle out unfortunately . The International had an intriguing premise , but failed to live up to it . The ending too was a letdown , despite the realization that things must happen outside the established system , almost suggesting vigilantism , but alas something more pragmatic was presented , and running out of steam , the film just abruptly aborts itself . Too bad for local audiences as well , because we've traded one intense shootout sequence at the famed Guggenheim Museum for the censored version to cater for a PG audience . Clive Owen movies got no respect these days by distributors here .
A Nutshell Review : No Reservations	No Reservations is a remake of Bella Martha ( Mostly Martha ) , a German movie made way back in 2001 . The premise is entirely the same , and I thought the local distributors were sly enough to hold back the release of this movie to coincide during the time of the local premiere of Ratatouille . I suspect it's to rub off the Pixar animated movie's successful telling of a story set within a kitchen , to orientate moviegoers to the various roles and functions within the restaurant kitchen , so that we're all ready for this when we're in the mood for some love . And the food is absolutely to die for in this movie too . As with Bella Martha and Ratatouille , you'll just drool at the gastronomical delights that are whipped up for the movie , so the warning I give will be , don't watch this on an empty stomach , and you'll probably emerge from the theatre hall wanting to dine in a restaurant than your nearest hawker centre or food court . For those who have watched Bella Martha ( as I had in doing my homework ) , then this movie isn't any different for the most parts . In summary , it's a story about a workaholic chef Kate ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) , who has to juggle to changes to her life when her boss makes her go for therapy to control that anger inside her . The first is to take care of her niece Zoe ( Abigail Breslin from Little Miss Sunshine ) when her sister meets with an accident , and the other is to manage that threat from work , in the form of another chef Nick ( Aaron Eckhart ) , who has the potential to run his own kitchen , but for some reason chose to work under Kate in the same restaurant . As a romantic comedy , this movie works , well , because it adapted almost every romantic scene from the German movie . Key scenes are recreated , and for those who have watched the original , you'll recognize them in a jiffy . But No Reservations still stands on its own , thanks to its wonderful cast . Zeta-Jones is as beautifully luminous as always , and I thought she hadn't aged a bit since the first I saw her back in Mask of Zorro . She brings about a tough as nails , no nonsense attitude to her role as Kate , yet is also the vulnerable soul looking for love . If compared to the original character , no doubt Zeta-Jones is eye-candy . Aaron Eckhart brought about a certain boyish charm to his character as compared to Sergio Castellitto in the original , but Sergio had a much mature air around him . But fans of Abigail Breslin will no doubt be glad that she did exhibit some of those boogie moves ( for just a bit ) , and I'm glad that it's not yet another role that shoos in Dakota Fanning . Watch out Fanning , here comes Breslin ! But if you're to compare Bella Martha and No Reservations , each has their superior points over the other . The Hollywood version is more polished and straight-forward , opting to rely on its good looking casts to deliver the goods , and thankfully they do , even though it had to dumb down certain plot lines , making it pacier , but it couldn't shake away its " Hollywood RomCom " look and feel . It also shrewdly adapted the soundtrack from Bella Martha as well , because the music just works perfectly with the food . The original on the other hand , had more scenes which are done subtly , and doesn't feel a need to explain every little detail in verbatim . So it has more quieter moments and the romantic connotations don't come so obviously , but brews quietly in the background . What I found slightly appalling , is that No Reservations decided to dump a sub plot altogether , one that was important in the original , probably for fear of introducing yet another character . It's mostly the same , until the last third . Those who haven't watched the original shouldn't feel too bothered about that of course , but I felt it was something a little wasted . Nonetheless No Reservations is the romance movie on offering this week , and by itself , it provides some decent entertaining fare . But do yourself that favour , go watch the original too !
A Nutshell Review : A Moment in June	My first film of the 22nd Singapore International Film Festival which started on Tuesday , A Moment in June is deep in themes of longing , missing and that of forbidden love . While once I was a sucker for a film dwelling in deep melancholy , I found this needlessly setting itself up quite mysteriously in the first half , testing the patience of the audience with little hints being dropped now and then , before confirming the suspicion that it's really well connected between the stories and characters . So take note , don't just walk out the door like some others did , because the film really plods toward unleashing its payload . It opens in 1999 , where two men are seen talking on a train departing for Chiang Mai . It's revealed that these 2 lovers are now estranged , with Phon ( Napatkorn Mitr-em ) departing and leaving stage director Pakorn ( Shahkrit Yamnarm ) quite the emotional wreck . This is story thread one . In the next thread which starts off quite abruptly , we see an elderly lady Arunya ( Deuntem Salitul ) looking up her ex-lover Krung ( Suchao Pongwilai ) at an amusement park , though we see their 30-years-in-waiting reunion very much restraint in nature , unlike friends who are delighted to have met up after so long . And the third storyline deals with two couples , one pair married , the other going to . Except that the married man , and the bride-to-be , share secret rendezvous outside a cinema , and very much click , knowing eventually that their love is doomed to fail . The third part is interesting though , because it brought out some very seamless editing between the stage and the real world , dropping the first big hint that this could perhaps be a story that had happened some years back , being set in the 70s . Much credit goes to the art director , and the director of photography , in transporting us back to that nostalgic era lensed so beautifully , that you start to miss and long for more when the film transitions back to Today . However , one can sense that director O . Nathapon may either be a fan of Wong Kar-wai , or wanted to pay homage to In The Mood For Love , treading very close to recreating that moment of forbidden love based on discreet meet ups being developed in the dark back alleys of town , with a Thai oldie song played in the background serving as the unifying element across all story lines . You've got to work through the non-linear narrative as it flips back and forth through events and characters , and personally I had some disregard for the current generation and their relationship problems , preferring instead the issues faced by the elderly couple , and the story which was set on stage , and in the past . It could be because the couple had a lot more going for them , and left you just wanting to find out more , on what could have happened to have led to that 30 year hiatus in contacting each other . And any blast from the past created meticulously , would get my vote as well . One cannot deny that A Moment in June is very beautifully shot given its lush aesthetics , and I would have enjoyed it more if the pacing had been ramped up just a tad bit , and that the narrative didn't try to play coy ( just like its characters ) too much in the beginning . If the themes mentioned are right up your alley , you'll definitely find this film enjoyable , though I suspect that something inside me is screaming in not wanting any more , and to move on to brighter themes already .
A Nutshell Review : The One Man Olympics	I have an affinity for sports bio-pics because they usually celebrate qualities such as hard work , perseverance , and sometimes sheer luck for an athlete to overcome the incredible odds facing them , and to come up on top . Naturally winning is all that matters , because nobody remembers the losers ( unfortunately ) , and it's always inspiring to witness how others overcome their challenges which sometimes surpass that of which an individual could handle . If an equivalent of a sports bio-pic is to be done in the Singapore context in relation to the Olympics , it could perhaps be our pioneering medalist , weightlifter Tang Howe Liang , to relate how he went quite on his own without the current support structure in place for our athletes of today , to win glory for our nation . Similarly , Liu Changchun ( Li Zhaolin ) goes down in China's history books as the first athlete to represent China and a medal winning one at that in the 1930s 10th Olympic Games held in Los Angeles , USA . And naturally the road to glory is not paved in gold , especially when you look at the tumultuous period he belonged to in China's history , where they were on the brink of the Sino-Japanese war , and the country in turmoil with priorities other than to consider expending budget in sending an athlete overseas to compete . It's an incredible pressure and one can only imagine the immense anxiety he has with the burden to shoulder the hopes of millions of people , in epitiomizing all of them with the indomitable spirit to compete at the highest level , and to shake off the " Sick Man of Asia " tag given the Japanese invasion . Representing the hopes of a nation , especially for a pioneer , can be nerve wrecking , but for the support from this father and understanding wife , he begins on the arduous journey to get himself represented , which this movie spent a lot of time focusing on the difficulties from war to crippling bureaucracy . Those moments were told in flashbacks , and we chart his trip to the USA from the start on sea , where he's travelling with only his coach Professor Song ( Shi Liang ) as they try to squeeze in some minimal training . And with inexperience comes the bickering with his coach , with one wanting to train continuously , against the coach's recommendation to cater for some adequate rest time . And as we know , sometimes lessons are learnt the hard way , which requires some eating of the humble pie to root one back to reality after a series of overconfidence . The movie boasted very high production values , with no efforts spared in having nifty special effects recreating countless of moments , from sets to backgrounds used to capture and recreate the era and the Games back then . The narrative also took a leaf out of Forrest Gump in having juxtapose the current actors into those black and white archival footage , and did so very competently and convincingly . Director Hou Yong also filmed the sprints under very exciting terms , with slow motion ( otherwise everything would be over in mere seconds ) and tight angles to frame all the action , which probably required multiple takes given the multiple angles shown , and to imagine the attention to details and accuracy to have the actors all come in at the right moments as cast in historical stone . If there is a gripe , I thought they should have filmed the winning race , rather than to not to so , with the narrative ra-ra about determination and the likes set the expectation that he's on a winning streak . Li Zhaolin was very believable as an Olympic medal winner given his very chiselled features and well toned body befitting an athlete . Notable cameos include David Wu and Hu Jun as a general / headmaster . And yes , Singapore also had a contribution here with Sun Yanzi being part of the singing ensemble for the team song , along with the likes of Jackie Chan and Wang Lee Hom . I had the chance to watch this as inflight entertainment but sleep overrode that opportunity . And I am thankful to have watched this , as it drops automatically into my recommended list of films to watch in relation to the Olympic theme this festival seems to be taking .
A Nutshell Review : The Drummer	Anything with drums , and I am there . The beats of drums in any music always appeal to me ( no prizes for guessing I'm a drum and bass fan ) , because I suppose it's fairly easy to express your mood to beats , and this expression can be done through anything that gives you that satisfying clang , and more so when you need to vent frustrations out in a relatively safe manner by hitting out at something inanimate , without personal injury of course . And I like it too as it doesn't come across in a threatening manner to those who want to pick up the instrument . I mean , there are no complicated chords , complex notes , intimidating keys or confusing hand eye leg coordination that calls for dexterity . What it has essentially is a pulled canvas , a set of drumsticks , and calls for strength , intensity and endurance as you express the beats of any rhythm within you . The Drummer is the latest movie to premiere from Hong Kong , written and directed by Kenneth Bi , starring Jaycee Chan , Tony " The Lover " Leung and Li Sinjie . Jaycee has been particularly busy this latter half of the year , with 3 releases ( including this one ) , from action in Invisible Target , to art-house drama in Where The Sun Rises , and now a movie about Zen Drummers . Somehow I find that he possesses this charming quality that comes across as easy going , a little naive , but yet having no lack of serious acting chops when the time calls for it . With the few films of his that I've seen ( save for the forgettable debut efforts like the Twins Effect ) , I'm quite impressed and would definitely be in the queue for more in future to see how he would mature into the different roles that come along his way . In The Drummer , Jaycee plays Sid in the titular role , and somewhat a departure from his earlier characters , at least initially . A pompous prick who drums for his rock band , he gets into the pants of a mistress of a triad boss ( Kenneth Tsang ) , and without saying gets himself into deep trouble . In trying to shield his son , Dad ( Tony Leung , in yet another typical hot headed gangland leader role we're familiar with from the Election movies ) sends him packing to a rural part of Taiwan to weather the expected storm of triad displeasure , and in this exile , Sid comes across the training grounds of the Zen Drummers . It's a basic story about the coming of age of an impatient youth , as he tries hard to gain acceptance to drum for the Drummers , who are of course , in no need for any impetuous hothead . And you know the drill from here , where there's a clash of cultures and philosophies pertaining to drumming , and in teaching him the ways of their own , we get plenty of " wax on wax off " moments , as virtues like patience , discipline , hard work , perseverance , you - name - it - the - movie's - got - it get imparted and appreciated by the newbie , transforming before your eyes from selfish individual , to a valuable team player . For the most parts , the movie develops at a rather predictable manner with near clichéd sub plots , but the appeal of the characters made it quite enjoyable to sit through , despite its run time of almost 2 hours split between dramatic moments , and those embodying Zen like teachings and quiet , contemplative pieces . I thought that the movie , like the virtue it's imparting , requires patience in order to savor the goods of a delightful performance , as typical stories of such nature you'd come to expect - the big fight , the finale dance , that rewarding end performance . However , to my slight disappointment , The Drummer didn't deliver w hen it really should . Instead the editing interrupted and intruded on proceedings , and what could have been worth a ticket to witness , felt like spare change . The romance bit also fell short , and somehow was junked from developing further as the narrative decide to switch gears and focus on father and son instead . Hence , Lin Sinjie's role as Hong Dou became a little sidetracked midway . Which was a pity , given that the potential for some good old fashioned romance didn't make the grade . But what I found really jarring , was the decision to reintroduce triad moments in the last act . Again typical in wanting to provide closure , but done not too subtly that it sticks out like a sore thumb . All in all , it's still a gorgeous looking film with good acting from the leads , and not to mention the professional performances by U-Theatre , the real Zen Drummers who come alive when they're behind their set of drums . Make sure you watch this in a theatre with a booming sound system . If you haven't had enough of the mesmerizing , hypnotic beats , then head on down to the official website and ensure you got your speakers turned on . And check out the production blog too while you're at it !
A Nutshell Review : Revolutionary Road	It's been some twelve years since James Cameron's Titanic sealed Leonardo DiCaprio's heartthrob status , and everyone's been wondering when DiCaprio and his co-star Kate Winslet would once again grace the screen together with that kind of on screen chemistry and magic that made thousands relive that cross-Atlantic adventure tragedy over and over again , effectively retiring James Cameron ( until this year of course with his 3D film Avatar ) since the film powered past a billion dollars in box office receipts . With tongue in cheek , I thought this Sam Mendes movie offered audiences a peek into how Jack Dawson and Rose's lives would have been , should they live through that night to remember together , and settle down in the USA . The free-spirited Dawson would find his life now quite the bore as compared to his free-wheeling days of a drifter , now rooted to a nine to five job he doesn't believe in , and lives his life like a robot only to pay the bills . As for Rose , she being stuck at home as a housewife also doesn't seem like the life she thought she signed on for , with the realities of matrimony settling in to demolish notions of a once daring romance . Leonardo DiCaprio reunites with Kate Winslet ( and Kathy Bates too ! ) in Revolutionary Road , that on the surface looks at how the familiar has crept into the lives of a married couple , and beneath the veneer and belief of their neighbours , theirs is a union slowly disintegrating , not that they do not try , but probably tried too hard , and where indifference start to rear its ugly head to destroy passion and love . We see how both do things that will ultimately hurt and betray the sliver of trust that's left , and how each manipulates the other in subtle ways in order to get what they think they want . The bulk of the film was centred around their joint decision to uproot their family ( and the children whom we rarely see ) and move to Paris , so that DiCaprio's Frank would be able to live out his dream , of finding out his true calling . This would mean selling all their assets , crossing the steamship the other way round ( which I chuckled at , and wonder if we're really going to see that at all ) , and having his wife support him ( because the Europeans pay secretaries exorbitant salaries ) while he mucks around for inspiration to life . This would also mean bidding Sayonara to his dead end job , until Murphy so decides to throw a spanner in the works with Frank gaining much needed recognition . Kate Winslet's April seemed to be the all-sacrificing wife , until her frequent breakdowns seem to cast doubts on her sanity , having to fight like mad with her husband , only to put on a more cordial front every morning at breakfast . One can only guess that she's doing her best to keep things from breaking down , but there's only a limit to how many holes you can plug with your fingers . In fact , the film develops at a pace with which paint dries , and comes alive only when Frank and April trade verbal blows , with hurting insults flying both directions with the threat of physical violence always close by . It's about the hypocrisy that we are aware of , yet choose to play the social charade and getting a kick out of laughing at the fakeness of it all behind closed doors , behind other people's backs . The games we play with the intention to hurt will sometimes backfire on ourselves too , and it's almost always never a good thing to be doing something to hit back at the other person , one whom you know you love . But rectifying it head on also means that it's time to give it up , but preferably done so in a more civil manner compared to dropping the bombshell and hoping for an expected reaction . Perhaps in the madness of it all , it takes an ex-mental patient character John ( played by Michael Shannon ) to become the voice of reason in an insanely fake world that both Frank and April find themselves in . In being crazy , he's granted the excuse to cut through the nonsense and say things as he sees fit , and has some of the best lines in the movie but also being the most accurate in the reading of the characters ' expressions . If you think both Frank and April have words that hurt , pay attention to the wise sayings of John . Based on a novel by Richard Yates , Sam Mandes managed to bring out the best in the chemistry between his two leading stars . Between them , age has not been kind to Winslet , while the additional lines on DiCaprio's face makes him all the more mature , though retaining his baby-faced looks that even made it to the insults their character trades . Just when everything starts to meander around the themes it set out to explore , and treading in dangerous ground in being too convoluted for its own good , the parting shot was quite verbose in summing everything up quite nicely , in that it pays to switch off at times , or most of the times if you will , in order to keep things as status quo without the opportunity of being misread that you're uncooperative , or unwilling to lend a listening ear . Very poignant , and chillingly real .
A Nutshell Review : The Strange Take of Oyuki	The Strange Tale of Oyuki is probably the raunchiest movie to date in this edition of the Japanese Film Festival . While the earlier Imamura movies shown do have sexual scenes , this one takes the cake in its eroticism , treading so close to being soft-porn like in the style of Hong Kong Category III movies . But hey , I'm not complaining ! Based on a novel by Kafu Nagai , this movie uses a short story of the same name , and at the same time infused it with real diary entries of Kafu's as well , making it seem like an amalgamation of his life and that pre-war story . Some however , have claimed that it's solely based on the novel , and the director Kaneto Shindo had changed the protagonist to the author himself . Whatever the case is , since I can't read Japanese , and until someone who has read the book in its original language and watched the film can advise , we shan't rack our brains about this aspect of it . The story follows the middle aged author , Kafu Nagai ( Masahiko Tsugawa ) , in his gallivanting ways from the 1920s to post war Japan . It actually took the first 30 minutes or so to establish the fact that his literary works , which consist mainly of yellow literature , is not welcomed by fellow peers . Moreover , he has the propensity to wine and dine women , becoming a Don Juan of sorts , with a notorious reputation after establishing a series of conquests in Europe and North America . The beginning actually painted him as a lonely man as well , unable to hold down a regular relationship , opting instead for fleeting ones with geishas and waitresses . Things start to change when Fate brings him to Oyuki , a prostitute , one rainy night , and romance start to blossom between the two despite his concerns about their age gap - he's close to 60 , while she's mid 20s . As they do the horizontal tango in between the sheets on a regular basis , she starts to really fall for him , while he , always on the apprehensive . It also brought to mind about How to Become Myself's issue on persona , as we see how Kafu engineers himself to be a pornographic photographer as a cover for his researching writer role . But it's not just sex and skin all the way . The movie allowed some suggestion of the geisha tradition and their skills in the art , and I was rather surprised at the hard anti-war stance and criticism that the narrative had taken up , with its documentary reel like scenes of the Imperial Army , and how because of the war the common folk are made to suffer with the constant barrage of air strikes nearing the end of the war . Masahiko Tsugawa provided some comedic relief in his acting , though I'm unsure if his wide - eyed eyeball look which seemed to draw more chuckles than anything else , and rubber faced expressions , were deliberate . As a man who decided early how to lead out his elderly life , I thought he had a somewhat stoic presence as an uncompromising man , and one who needed to get his rocks off . Yuki Sumida as the titular Oyuki , had actually won a number of awards for the role , and while her portrayal of the prostitute is sympathetic , I suppose she'll be best remembered for shedding her clothes instead . Unpretentious and straightforward movie which runs almost like a bio-pic , I do not deny The Strange Tale of Oyuki as being entertaining , for the right reasons of course . Definitely an easy movie to sit through after an almost week long program of heavier material .
A Nutshell Review : New In Town	In this economic climate of corporate downsizing , one wonders how the corporate boys in monkey suits on the board run their business with the help of a spreadsheet . It's always easy to see which areas of the business bleed red , and decide then on to send hatchet-men to the ground to execute ( pardon the pun ) and prune various portions of that wound to try and stop the hemorrhage , failing which a complete amputation would be required . It's easy making such decisions from the ivory tower devoid of decent human interaction , but never easy from the folks on the ground to do it , because it leaves just a bad aftertaste , especially when the folks are friends , and people you know . For Lucy Hill ( a visibly aged Renee Zellweger ) , she's a high flying executive of a corporation headquartered in sunny Miami , but what I think was because of a sexist board , she gets sent off to the wintry conditions of a small Minnesota town to effect their wishes , and that is to remove 50 % of the employee population there to keep an unprofitable factory there under some cost control . Being an alpha-female type who never say no to challenges and her career , she makes that journey and has this high-and-mighty air about her , which through the course of her stay in town , their warm hospitality , sense of humour and all round , small town camaraderie , will slowly thaw that cold heart of hers . There were plenty of charming moments in the film , courtesy of a whole host of ensemble characters built for the plot , such as Siobhan Fallon's Blanche Gunderson , who becomes Lucy's personal assistant aka secretary , and in all earnestness , tries to establish a friendship with her would-be boss , as well as trying to hook Lucy up with the town hunk Ted Mitchell ( Harry Connick Jr ) who so happens to also be heading the workers ' union . Complications naturally arise from this conflict of interest , which puts Lucy in two minds as she has her orders to follow , yet find herself inevitably drawn to follow her heart as well . And yes , this is also truly a romantic movie , which I thought had effectively balanced affairs of the heart as well as how modern day corporations run the shop , with pink slips being very easy to dish out . Some portions remind me of a Hong Kong movie about a noodle factory ( whose title eludes me at this moment , but starring Sam Hui and Tsui Hark , yes you read me right ) , where a band of merry men have to put aside their differences from their immediate manager and amongst themselves , to try and salvage their jobs and their livelihood . It's a pretty standard affair that you see both the problems and the solutions coming from a mile away when they're mentioned , and the plot is extremely straightforward as well , with no meandering twists and turns . But hey , it's supposed to be a romantic story , and both Zellweger and Connick Jr did well given their limited screen time together to make it all believable . But the scene stealer here has got to be J . K . Simmons , who disappears effectively behind a fat suit and is quite unrecognizable . He represents the kind of supervisors that managers love to hate and have no qualms giving the marching orders to , but also serves as a reminder that such on-the-ground folks who garner the respect of the troops , are always worth their weight in gold , because once they're on your side , they have motivational techniques par none to get things done . I was OK with the romantic plot here , but the Management 101 issues presented , was way more entertaining and valuable .
A Nutshell Review : Beyond The Clouds	This the the final feature film that Michelangelo Antonioni directed , with the help of Wim Wenders , and adapts from his short story collection " That Bowling Alley on the Tiber " . Beyond the Clouds contain 4 short stories with familiar themes that we've come to be accustomed to from his earlier works , and sums up those themes in vignettes which are weaved together via Wenders ' directed scenes involving John Malkovich's The Director character . However , most of the stories seemed to offer little or no depth that we're used to from an Antonioni movie , while Malkovich's narration of supposed depth rattled on with unclear diction that sounded a tad pretentious and out of place . Nonetheless , all four stories seem to touch on chance encounters , and extremely quick romances that played out more like lust at first sight , perhaps due to the lack of time ( since they're short stories anyway ) to allow for a more layered approach to carefully define and craft the characters as we know from a typical Antonioni movie . And the obsessive approach here is for the characters to disrobe to showcase a lack of deeper connection sacrificed for the immediate satisfaction of the flesh . Maybe this is the point to want to bring across with an observation of the more modern relationship ? The first story , Story of a Love Affair That Never Existed , tells the romance between Silvano ( Kim Rossi Stuart ) and Carmen ( Ines Sastre ) , who meet when one asks the other for directions to a hotel , and later meet at a cafe . It's as if Fate is playing games on them when they meet , but part and meet again much later , but like the games people play , it's almost like a L'Avventura or a La Notte with the lack of communication , and of the expectations from the man . John Malkovich's director character takes central role in the next short , who exhibited some really lecherous looks toward a girl working at a shop , played by Sophie Marceau . She is deeply disturbed and made to feel uncomfortable , but somehow plucked up the courage to approach him , and in what I thought was to scare him off , tells him her background that she murdered her father by stabbing him 12 times . But in a flash these two are off toward bedroom gymnastics . The next short , Don't Look for Me , is the longest of the lot , with Peter Weller playing a cheating husband who has to choose between his mistress ( Chiara Caselli ) or his wife , played by Fanny Ardant . Perhaps the more star studded of the lot , with Jean Reno also stepping in for a coda at the end of it , which sort of expands the little universe in which this short exists . But unfortunately Reno's involvement also got relegated to some stifle of laughter as it goes into the implausible domain with laser quick romantic tanglements . There was a key element adapted from L'Eclisse with a kiss between a couple through a glass panel too , while the introductory tale about the story of souls was quite interesting . If there's a negative theme here this short wants to play upon , it'll be the duplicity of man . In between this short and the next was a small scene which reunited our couple from La Notte , Marcello Mastroianni and Jeanne Moreau , where the former was painting a landscape which was reminiscent of that in Red Desert . Finally , we have the final shot This Body of Dirt , with Vincent Perez as a young man going after a girl ( Irene Jacob ) whom he just met , and falling in love with her , only to realize that it is a love that is too late . It's a relatively talkie piece , just like the first story , with the characters engaging in conversation while walking the streets of the city they're in , which sort of brings to mind Richard Linklater's Before Sunrise . While on the whole the movie may have succeeded as individual pieces , they never quite measure up as a combined effort given the " excuse " to link them up was a film director's exploration of possible stories and a look for inspiration for his next film .
A Nutshell Review : Bimmer	Bimmer's the Russian term for the BMW , and with such a title , the vehicle has to be a plot device in the movie . The film begins with the stealing of a BMW 7-series by a gang of four petty thieves . Given that it's such a wonderful car , they decide to keep it for themselves instead of selling it off . But before the film reaches cruising speed , a confrontation with another gang goes wrong , and our quartet is on the run from both the cops and from the mob . So they're off on a road trip in their ill gotten BMW , and scene after scene , we're treated to set pieces , like encounters with a gang of truckers , corrupt cops and a doctor in a small town . Some of these scenes are hilarious , watching our quartet outsmarting and wriggling their way out of situations , while others are sometimes plain boring . So it's rather uneven . Despite the title being a car model , there is absolutely no car chases in this film , which is a pity , otherwise we could have seen the 7-series being put to good use . However , what's refreshing is the scenery . I haven't seen much of Moscow or Russia , and this film offered an opportunity to do so . It also attempts to explore the relationships between the friends , to see if there is indeed honour amongst thieves at a time when it really would have counted . The ending is kinda unexpected , but all the more makes you wonder about the this theme . With an excellent soundtrack each time the Bimmer is driven , you'll forgive this show for some of its shortfalls .
A Nutshell Review : My Super Ex-Girlfriend	Look ! Up in the Sky ! It's a bird ! No , it's a plane ! No , it's G-Girl ! New York City's newest superhero , with powers and origins adopted from Metropolis ' Man of Steel . She can fly , has super-strength , can hear the frequency of a police radio , able to shoot beams from her eyes , looks like Uma Thurman . . . she's the ultimate hot babe any dude can ask for . Unless of course , given her powers , she's also a tad insecure and can turn out to be any dude's worst nightmare with her clingy , needy nature . If Superman's alter-ego Clark Kent is mild mannered , G-Girl's equivalent in Jenny Johnson is the bespectacled arty type with a touch of neuroticism . It's basically a romance between her and an unlikely , fairly ordinary bloke Matt Saunders ( Luke Wilson ) , who picked her up during a train ride with the encouragement of good friend Vaughn Haige ( Rainn Wilson ) , and with a stroke of luck , managed to snag a date and more . It's a fun movie about relationships , or the desperate lack thereof , and given it's reversal of super-being gender , provides a different perspective altogether . While the comedy's fun at certain points , with its load of sexual innuendos and situations ( somehow it's almost always about sex ) , the movie felt like it went on autopilot , relying pretty much on its strong links to its adapted source material , right down to the parody of her weakness , You have that dastardly evil genius villain Professor Bedlam ( Eddie Izzard ) , and many scenes taking a mickey out of the Superman movies . It plays out similar to the earlier Ivan Reitman movies , like Ghostbusters and Evolution , kinda kinky , kind funny , formulaic and pretty much children friendly ( despite the sexy bits ) . I thought that the cast had a pretty fun time doing the movie , with supporting characters like Anna Farris providing additional eye candy as the love rival . The special effects by Digital Domain were pretty nifty too , and I liked those swirly-bits when G-GIrl takes flight . Don't bother too much about the uber-thin storyline , but just enjoy the ride right up until the quirky , amicable settling of outstanding issues . And if you really wanna try to look hard into it , it's a reminder to us guys that soon enough , women will rule the world , and we probably don't mind sitting back and enjoying that odd beer while they bring home the bacon . Stay tuned after the animated end credits for an easter egg scene involving Vaughn and his apparent secret beneath his cool-cat demeanour .
A Nutshell Review : Hoodwinked	Anne Hathaway is currently disrobing on our local screens , and I suspect by the time Havoc finished its run , then she'll be heard but not seen , only lending her voice in the animated feature Hoodwinked , by Blue Yonder Films and Kanbar Entertainment . By not being a product churned out from the usual Disney-Pixar-Dreamworks-Fox studios , it's a delightful departure from the expected norms we already have formed by offerings from the mentioned studios . It's a very adult animated movie , in having multiple probably plots told in a whodunnit fashion . Gone are the laugh-a-minute spoofs on pop culture , not that Hookwinked is relying on the few it has on offer , and in comes some old fashioned comedy done right . Songs are also limited , given that it's only an 80 minute movie , that doesn't have much time to incorporate a mini-musical . The plot adopts the fairy tale classic of Little Red Riding Hood , where the crimson hooded girl delivers some cakes to her grandmother's house , but found a wolf in her granny's pyjamas , and with her life at stake , she is rescued by a nearby woodsman . Or so we were led to think . In this modern day retelling , we're given a twist to this aged old story , and it's more than meets the eye . Each of the characters - the Wolf ( Patrick Warburton ) , the Woodsman ( James Belushi ) , the Granny ( Glenn Close ) and even Red herself , seem to be hiding an agenda , and each are more than who they claim to be . In detective noir tradition , Nicky Flippers ( David Ogden Stiers ) investigates and probes into each of their account of what brought them to that fateful location , and the events that transpired . And this is the highlight of the movie . With each retelling , the audience gets involved through identifying the timelines where certain events cross one another , and how certain actions become misinterpreted to comedic effect . It's nothing very cerebral about it , as you would have probably guess who's guilty soon enough before the revelation , but what is admired , is how the scriptwriters come up with these zany plot ideas , and interlinking them together is no small feat . Nonetheless , there are areas during the retelling which are simply quite plain , while some have become gems on their own . Given the many characters , most of which are relegated to few lines of dialogue , some of them just gave way to stereotypes , like most of the piggy cops playing it just for laughs . And there's also a hyperactive squirrel in this picture stealing the show , much like the one in Over the Hedge . Is a squirrel becoming the new animated in - thing ? In a plot involving stolen recipes , Hoodwinked's animation will take a while to get used to . Not that it's bad , but I felt that it wasn't as fluid , or meant to be photo-realistic , given its rather blocky 2D artwork . Then again , it's the story that matters , and this one doesn't pretend to be anything more than an average whodunnit . Fun stuff .
A Nutshell Review : Ghajini	The tattoos on the body , the Polaroid snaps , the notes scattered around the house , and the smoking gun evidence ? Short term memory loss , happening every 15 minutes . If this doesn't seem like Christopher Nolan's masterpiece Memento , then I don't know what does . Written and directed by A . R . Murugadoss , I don't see much of a nod of acknowledgement to Nolan's work , and in almost all literature , it only falls back on the fact that this is a Hindi remake of Murugadoss ' own Tamil movie of the same name Ghajini , produced in 2005 ( Nolan's was in 2000 ) , which joins the ranks of films having their titles named after the chief villain . In any case this isn't the first time that we see very obvious similarities in premise and characters being adopted for Bollywood's own productions , and the shot-in-Singapore Krrish comes to mind as well , as they had the entire setting of John Woo's Paycheck incorporated into that film . But of course in any version some merits could be found , but I believe some form of acknowledgement would be in order , other than , in this case , a quick flash of a very wordy disclaimer about Ghajini being gleaned from various short stories and material ( and another paragraph which I missed given the fine print , and short duration on screen , but I'm pretty sure no mention of Memento ) . Well , there are some reasons why I chose to watch this . First up , the music's by A . R . Rahman , and for all the good publicity he's getting for his work on Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire , I just had to experience yet another piece of his musical magic on a film , besides one that I've watched much earlier this year in Jodhaa Akbar . One just cannot imagine how his musical talent will be put to good use in a film which looks and feels like Memento , and this being the next best thing . " Guzarish " is a track used in the trailer , and it is currently my new ear worm . Another reason is of course , Aamir Khan . Yet another prolific actor with a penchant for perfection , it was interesting to see how his take on the protagonist's short term memory loss , would rival that of Guy Pearce's . I'm embarrassed to say I've only seen him in action in Lagaan , so this would be yet another opportunity to witness his ability which can be measured against a benchmark . But don't expect the same though , because Pearce's version was more of a thinking man who questions and second guesses himself , while Khan's version was in two parts to serve the story , one as a raging hulk monster who tears through his opponents with savage violence fueled by anger and hatred , coupled with the hurt he experienced and recalled ( Hulk producers take note , in case Edward Norton decides against any more sequels , look in the direction of Aamir Khan ) , while the other as mild-mannered Sanjay Singhania , CEO of a telecommunications company in Mumbai . Yes , Bollywood's version naturally comes with built-in song and dance , which for once I would have thought looked quite out of place in the movie , if not for A . R . Rahman's score and music . While half of the movie might be seen as a copy of Memento's premise and character , the other half served more to allow the audience to share the pain with Sanjay . Nolan's version had you experience the frustrating condition of the syndrome through its narrative presentation , but this one junks the reverse chronology , and plays it out flat and builds a rich back story for Sanjay , so much so that you'll root for him as he goes on his rampage of revenge . You'll find yourself entrenched in the romance between Sanjay and his lady love Kalpana ( the stunning Asin , who reprises her role from the 2005 version as well ) , who's a model awaiting her big break , and a girl with a genuinely good heart . The plot never fails to give her numerous moments to showcase her good nature , and it's no surprise why anyone would not fall in love with her instantly . Factor in plenty of lovey-dovey moments of comedy and pursuit ( under the guise of a different identity , like Shah Rukh Khan's Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi ) which makes it perfect for a date movie , but with hindsight that you know this love is doomed from the moment it began , which actually makes it quite sad to watch the events unfold since you know what will eventually happen to her . Ghajini doesn't adopt or try to adopt those very cerebral mind-f moments from Memento , but as I mentioned plays it out more like a straight forward action thriller , with a handful of inevitable moments of watching our protagonist get taken advantaged of because of his condition . No other structural styles are used besides flashbacks , where the purpose of two characters in the movie are to read the diary of events so that it could be translated visually onto the screen . However you'll still be kept in the dark for some time as to why the designated thugs of Ghajini ( Pradeep Rawat ) would want to exact their mettle onto Sanjay and Kalpana , and you'll be held in suspense for almost 2 hours before the reasons get shown . I can only imagine the flak that this film might receive because of having to adapt , and not properly acknowledge perhaps that it's not original material , save for the romantic spin on it . But if you would look past those ramifications and treat this like a re-imagining of Memento in more straight-forward terms , that this would still serve as an entertaining thriller done Bollywood style .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Return of the One-Armed Swordsman	After watching the original One-Armed Swordsman , directed by Chang Cheh and starring Wang Yu in the title role , I knew I had to watch this direct sequel , as the others had David Chiang replacing Wang Yu as Fang Gang . Continuing where the first movie left off , we see Fang Gang leading a life of a farmer , without a care of JiangHu politics . But as the saying goes , and in martial arts movie , so long as you're a reputable swordsman , trouble will always be looking for you . The emergence of the evil Eight Demon Swordsmen clan brought about chaos , with their issuing of forced challenges and a grand meeting amongst the swordsman clans . The senior members of various clans get annihilated or captured , and its down to the junior members to try and convince Fang Gang to come out of " retirement " to assist them in their quest of rescue , and getting rid of the Eight Demon Swordsmen . It's also pretty cool to see the main villains being crafted with various deadly weapons and different personalities . Like the one with the deadly chain-attached sickle , or the mean looking knife-shield . How about a weapon which seemed to fire pellets of poison , and a sword with extensible blade ? Perhaps the more interesting villain was the lady assassin , with her demure looks , and deadly hidden knives , giving a new meaning to back-stabbing ! However , being villains , our hero and his gang of merry men , while on the way to the villains ' fortress , get to dispatch them one by one in deadly , bloody fashion . Although by today's standards the blood is pretty fake looking , it's still quite a bloody affair with slashing , stabbings - knives through body , and squirting blood . But I must add that it did give a sense of cheesy nostalgia to how blood was created for the screen in those days . Classic martial arts movie scenes like the bamboo forest also get featured in this movie , though the forest did look a bit sparse , since it was filmed in a sound stage . Added to the fight scenes was a demonstration of superb " qing-gong " ( light-skill , fleet-footedness ) by Fang Gang , though the wire work used was extremely elementary , and came across quite laughably . Back in those days , this sequence would have been da bomb though . The story's nothing to shout about - it has almost every thematic element that you'd expect from a martial arts movie , and classic scene settings like forests and inns . But it sure is one heck of a fun ride - bigger , bolder , badder than the original , with a lot more disposable characters for the body count . Code 3 DVD extras contains a pretty weak lineup of only the trailer ( and trailers for other movies ) , colour stills , the poster , selected cast and crew biography and filmography , and a one screen production notes . The DVD for the original seemed better and more thorough .
A Nutshell Review : Wild Child	I guess Emma Roberts ' more memorable role was taking on the iconic Nancy Drew character , but now she exchanges those sleuthing skills and good manners for spoilt brat antics . Swinging from one end of the spectrum of an ideal kid to a spoilt and bratty one , her Poppy Moore character in Wild Child is a rich kid who has issues with discipline because she thinks she could get her way with her devil may care attitude and wads of cash . With her relationship with her father going to the doldrums , she gets shipped off to an English boarding school in an effort to be schooled in the prim and proper , and thus sets up plenty of room for your typical fish out of water story . Naturally as the loner who stands out because of her rather uncouth behaviour and fashion sense , this was somewhat a throw back to The House Bunny , where the protagonist is clearly out of place , and remains to be seen if it is herself who would be assimilated into the norm , or if she could be the trend-setter and begin a serious case of behavioural osmosis . For starters , this is clearly chick flick territory , with all characters being girls ( it's set in an all girls boarding school ) and the only male supporting characters happened to be her dad ( Aidan Quinn ) , the school principal's son Freddie ( Alex Pettyfer ) for romantic purposes , and Nick Frost who cameos as a small town hairstylist . So you can imagine the amount of bitching that would go around in the film , where Poppy offends the head student on her first day on multiple fronts , thereby starting off some serious personal vendetta issues . Or how Poppy is initially unwelcome by everyone in her dormitory because her stubbornness got them all detention , before they decide to assist her in a win-win situation - getting her expelled so that she could return home . Wild Child is surprisingly entertaining with a good story to tell , even though it's the usual about having friends for life versus the superficial ones that one tend to meet from time to time . I guess for parents this could be one of those child-safe movies to bring their kids to , and hopefully to have some of its positive messages rub off on their kids . Written by Lucy Dahl , daughter of the renowned Roald Dahl , that credit alone provided some interest in this movie , despite the story and plot development being nothing unusual and being very predictable . But I guess predictability could still work if the ensemble cast delivered their roles convincingly , which they do , and with any movie that deals with friendship and one targetted at children , this is as plain sailing a movie as it can get - nobody dies , everyone becomes friends , tense situations get diffused amicably , and there's plenty of BFF-love to go around .
A Nutshell Review : Push	Push is one of those movies that gives you the deja-vu feeling that it's a quick hack job , because from the trailer alone , images of X-men as well as Star Wars come racing through your mind , what with talk about being born with special powers akin to being a mutant wanted by government agents , as well as in execution of those abilities as fluidly like a Jedi Knight would , with mind-tricks , Force Push and a prophecy to fulfil . It takes place in today's world , where some folks get to be born with powers that The Division ( aka the Dark Side ) classifies into broad terms like Pushers , Movers , Watchers , Sniffs , Shadows , Shifters , Wipers and Bleeders . Naturally there are good and bad guys within those classes , and The Division are a select few who have government backing to operate like Nazis and conduct experiments to make them all stronger , for weaponization ( yes , the DNA of the USA is to weaponize everything ) . The good guys though are not organized and are forever on the run from The Division , until a few of them decide to band together and fight for their rights . At least that would be a tad more interesting . Instead , we get a grouping of half-past-six heroes who have idled their potential and not honed it to perfection . Chris Evans ' Nick Gant is a drifter who spends his time trying to hone his powers to win in illegal street gambling . He's a mover , and one day gets found out by Dakota Fanning's Watcher just because she sees him in her hallucinatory state from the impressionistic pictures she constantly draws on a sketch pad . A lotus prophecy ( it's set in Hong Kong you see ) tells this second-generation power couple to band together in their common quest to find Kira Hudson ( Camilla Belle ) , a one time ex-flame of Nick's , and a mysterious briefcase , where by their powers and artifacts combine , they can bring down The Division , kinda like a solo shot in the dark to blow up the Death Star . Only that the promise doesn't actually get delivered because Push decided to dwell a lot on the bickering and planning stage , while leaving the intended finale either forgotten conveniently , or set aside for a straight to DVD sequel . So what makes this interesting ? Apparently I got my kicks out of watching the characters here struggle with their Cantonese . And as an action movie , it sure does have its moments , especially with that street-fighter enhanced fistfight between Nick Gant and what could possibly be The Division's most powerful Mover / Grunt Victor ( Neil Jackson ) . Djimon Hounsou plays the meanest badass in the movie with Push powers , able to command the weakest of minds ( read : supporting characters ) to do his bidding . His Henry Carver came across as a poor man's Samuel L . Jackson , and only SLJ can do what SLJ does best - be a mofo . Camilla Belle got wasted here as a damsel in distress , exhibiting some surprise moves once in a while ( and even that had implanted doubts ) , but generally nothing more than a flower vase . Dakota Fanning isn't new to the action movie genre since she had her firm grounding learning from Tom Cruise on how to run with fear ( thanks to War of the Worlds ) . I admire the now teenager in trying to put into good use her acting chops here , but the filmmakers decided to make her Cassie Holmes suffer a bad hair day throughout . Also , this film had exposed one of her flaws - while she's a good actress and all , she cannot play intoxicated ( teenage drinking to boost powers , hooray ) . Her drunkenness was one of the most unconvincing I've seen put on screen , and she too nearly wanted to break into laughter at her inability . Filmed entirely in Hong Kong , I caught glimpse from the end credits that Johnnie To and Milkyway got credited for the production . I guess if you want to film Hong Kong in a certain style , there's only the current Hot Property to turn to for consultation . Also , DOP Peter Sova had some very obvious use of the fish-eye lens that seem to mimic that of Christopher Doyle's in Fallen Angels . Most of the Chinese characters here are pretty weak , and not to mention unintentionally hilarious as well , with their shout-down powers of Pop Boy 1 ( Chi Kwan Fung ) and 2 ( Jacky Heung ) and a far superior Watcher ( Lu Lu ) trying to gain a one up against The Division through triad-styled turf wars . The plot might seem a little muddled as it tried hard to sound intelligent , and there are some illogical moments with characters popping up and about , coupled with some really tired and uninspiring lines and unclear character motivation . Not that it was an unentertaining film , it actually is . However , it's a movie purely for escapism purposes , this might just be a quick fix to your X-men addiction , if you look too much into it that you see the glaring loopholes that is .
A Nutshell Review : Sweet Rain / Accuracy of Death	The first thing that comes screaming to your mind when you come to know of this movie , is MEET JOE BLACK , yes in caps , and a nagging feeling that it's a rip off / copycat coming some 10 years after that Hollywood movie . Although this is based on the Japanese novel by Kotaro Isaka , you can't help but to ponder upon the similarities between the two movies . And it seems that Death / Grim Reaper , besides having a liking for black suits ( for obvious reasons ) , also have a liking for putting on pretty-boy faces . From Brad Pitt to Takeshi Kaneshiro here , the full house today was likely to be attributed to the many fan girls who were squealing their way through the movie each time Kaneshiro appeared on screen . I suspect if Death really looked like that , these girls would gladly spend 7 days with the good looking stranger , only to have him decide if they should fulfill their destiny and die , or be passed-over because of unfinished business . And there'll be a queue that will scream " Take Me , Please ! " So the Grim Reaper acts like a judge , taking his limited time in between getting to know the mark , with listening to music in record stores , one of his , and the pastime too of many peer Reapers . Kaneshiro calls himself Mr Chiba , and walks the mortal realm when he's given a mission of assessment , accessed through a door from the nether realms which opens up to the specific location where the mark is . And it really contains no surprise , even right from the start , where you'll know just whose door has Death come knocking upon . Armed with a deathly , though temporal , touch , he has to cover his hands in gloves lest he accidentally puts someone into comatose , which becomes his weapon of choice in self - protection , and the protection of others . And to think that he has roamed our world enough to know the intricacies and antics of us human beings , Sweet Rain still contains enough juvenile jokes when he has to tussle with phrases unfamiliar to him , especially when they have double meanings , or make figurative references , and of course , the fan girls just love it when Kaneshiro provides his puppy dog look when he becomes confused and seeks clarification . As a feature length movie , it's really made up of three distinct acts , and the middle one suffered through a whole emotional and narrative disconnect from the other two , with slow pacing and uninteresting yakuza characters to fill time . The main mark of this movie is Manami Konishi's Kazue Fujiki , a girl who works at the complaints department who is a classic down and out loner with few friends , no objective and goals in life , and keeps getting harassed by this middle aged man over the phone who persists in getting her to answer his queries , and strange requests . I thought the strength of the movie was in the lengths it took to establish Chiba's relationship with Manami , though credit to the story that it wasn't a rehash of Meet Joe Black by the time the ending rolled over . Manami Konishi's portrayal was also a departure from her sprightly turn in Udon , but ventured close to her role in Retribution / Sakebi , but hey , Chiba hit the mark when he said she looked prettier when she smiled , given that she's brooding in the movie most of the time . So I shan't spoil the story by recounting what happened in each act , but suffice to say that this movie is beautifully shot against a backdrop of rainy days which Chiba seemed cursed to work under each time he visits our world , but he's not lonely in his mission with the black pet mongrel who shadows him , and thankfully , doesn't speak out like what Hollywood would do , but communicate telepathically with Chiba , and through subtitles with us mortal folks .
A Nutshell Review : Waitress	The late writer-director Adrienne Shelly's Waitress is a fine quirky film . But I have to admit one of the prime reasons for my catching this movie , is that it stars Keri Russell . Somehow I didn't find her all that attractive during her Felicity days , but my , how have things changed , and her very short role in M : I : III was somewhat a pity . Here , she plays the lead role as Jenna , a waitress at a pie diner , who's secretly wishing to save enough money to get away from a miserable life . And what a miserable life that is . Stuck in an unhappy marriage , her life is the home to work to home cycle , putting up with customers in the diner , but worse , having to tolerate her husband Earl ( Jeremy Sisto ) and his nonsense . A possessive , insecure man , he controls Jenna , even as ridiculous as the things she has to say to him , and makes life an emotional , and sometimes physical hell for her . Your blood will just boil when you see the kind of treatment he dishes out , especially the miscellaneous blackmailing techniques . But Jenna's thoughts and plans of escape get put on hold as she becomes pregnant . And having secret desires with a newcomer doctor Dr . Pomatter ( Nathan Fillion of Serenity ) just happens to complicate things , not that he's a good looker , but finally here's someone who lends a listening ear , but wait , is also married ! The story dwells upon life in general , and the choices and decisions one makes , and I thought for a moment it nearly gone into Little Children territory . Waitress contains a lot of charm , in having the good looking leads in Keri Russell and Nathan Fillion play off each other . Those into bakery will also be smiling at the numerous pies that Jenna bakes , whose ingredients and inspiration come from her life situations and events . Andy Griffith , whom I have watched as a boy his television series Matlock , lends himself to a role as Old Joe , who owns the pie diner , a fussy man who dictates his every wish at the diner , but one who also dispenses invaluable everyday life advice to Jenna when she needed it most . But as much as I like the many characters in the movie , I still take my hat off to Jeremy Sisto's Earl , as the asshat husband . Those who behave like he does ought to be ashamed , and it's a constant reminder never to degenerate into a complete prick like he is . It makes a wonderful date movie this week , even though it's not a romance movie per se and is heavy on dialogue . But definitely one of the major issues raised and as observed here , is for the guys to take stock of our behaviour when dealing with our loved ones . This , despite Waitress being a chick flick .
A Nutshell Review : Dragon Tiger Gate	Adapting comic book story lines into feature films is not new in Hong Kong , and adapting styles from how Hollywood does things , isn't new to the industry either . The opening credits of the comic-book flipping sequence seem to announce that this movie is aping the standards set on comic book films in the West , as well as to set expectations straight that whatever is played out is pure fantasy , not Oscar winning material . Dragon Tiger Gate is sheer Hong Kong fantasy martial arts indulgence . Not every movie in this genre makes the grade though . Feng Yun ( Stormriders ) was probably the pioneer with its fusion of fantasy martial arts moves and special effects , but while it proved successful at the box office , purist condemned ( don't they always ) the storyline for bastardizing and summarizing its rich pulp history beyond recognition . It's tough to extract the essence into a 90 minute movie , and others like Zhong Hua Ying Xiong ( A Man Called Hero ) failed miserably , even with its effects which turned out laughable . The effects in Dragon Tiger Gate has shown a lot of improvement where Hong Kong movies are concerned , with digitized landscapes blending perfectly in scenes . The fights were effectively enhanced with plenty of CG , as well as good old reliable wirework . But nothing beats having well choreographed fist fights ( by Donnie Yen ) or just unadulterated martial arts showcase of skills such as the use of the nunchakus . Jazzed up with a Japanese influenced soundtrack , the action bits are the highlight of the movie , as the rest of the dialogue laden scenes were insipid and unfortunately applied too much brakes on the pace of the movie . Donnie Yen and Nicholas Tse play brothers Dragon and Tiger ( in Chinese mythology , this combination is very fierce , OK ? ) and together with their friend Black Dragon ( Shawn Yue ) , they make good commercial role models for hair gel . OK , so I can't help it but to poke some fun at their long hair in the movie , providing ample opportunity for the use of what I call the hair - dryer effect - Strike a killer pose , cue strong wind to blow their hair from their face . Tiger belongs to an aged old martial arts school known as Dragon Tiger Gate , while Dragon , separated from Tiger when young , gets involved with triads work , against his principles . Black Dragon on the other hand , is a braggart who became humbled when he visits Dragon Tiger Gate to learn new skills . Together , they go up against a Japanese secret society headed by a formidable villain called Shibumi . There are plenty of elements typical of a Hong Kong action movie , especially with the relationships with the opposite sex , like the token evil female character Luosha who falls in love with Dragon , in an uninspiring romance bit with a self-sacrificial theme , as well as the token goody-two-shoes female character Ma Xiaoling , the daughter of Dragon's triad benefactor who finds Tiger attractive . The much touted Guiness Book of World Records sandbag , was much ado about nothing . All it had was a brief 10 second appearance , from a wide angled shot which does not do justice to its enormous size , and then quickly forgotten . If given the opportunity , I won't mind watching this again just for the action bits and fast forwarding through the slow dialogue pieces . Also , watching it in its original Cantonese track will always be preferred , and in this one , Louis Koo actually provided the voice-over for the chief villain . Talk about unknowns providing the Mandarin voiceovers . Yuck .
A Nutshell Review : The Sentinel	At first glance , this film looks like the Keifer Sutherland series 24 for the big screen . With the focus on a plot to assassinate the President of the United States , a race against time , and plenty of Secret Service agents , the agency under the spotlight in The Sentinel . But wait , the protagonist turns out to be Michael Douglas ' character Pete Garrison instead , a veteran Secret Service agent famed for taking the bullet for Reagan in 1981 . The SS agents are specially trained to " take the bullet " , which is what makes them special - who in the right mind will put themselves in the line of a bullet and a target ? But Garrison gets implicated in the assassination plot , and has to run for his life while at the same time doing his bit of investigations into the plot . All this because of his failure in a polygraph test , due to his adulterous banging of the First Lady ( Kim Basinger ) . Tsk . There are shades of Clint Eastwood's In the Line of Fire . Both featured aging actors , and aging veteran has-been heroes with a bit of a historical reference , who took the bullet in their respective tours of duty . While Eastwood's movie has a more enigmatic villain in John Malkovich , The Sentinel suffered from its lack of a central strong villain , preferring to share the assassination responsibility amongst many forgettable ex-KGB villains , and the mole within the Presidential Detail . With Douglas on the run from the law , he becomes similar to Dr . Richard Kimble of The Fugitive , hunting the proverbial one-armed man while at the same time , relying on his smarts to outwit fellow agents , which turned out to be quite interesting to watch - despite slick processes , it still boils down to the performance and gullibility of individual agents . Keifer Sutherland and Eva Longoria , top TV stars of today from 24 and Desperate Housewives , get relegated into support roles as the Secret Service investigators who are looking into Garrison's probable involvement in the assassination plot , and at times seem to have lept off the pages of CSI with their forensics skills . The beautiful couple had chemistry that could have resembled X-Files ' Fox Mulder and Dana Scully , but alas these two had very little to do here . We know the reason why they're in the movie , and that is to get their fans into the theatres . Also , Longoria's role seemed unable to shake off her sexy-mama Gabrielle , and here , has her in fairly low cut blouses ( Sutherland actually tells her to cover up ) and tight pants ( ogle-fest for fellow agents ) . Nonetheless , it's still a pretty interesting look into the lives of probably the most highly charged and tense protection detail in the world , and the typical threats that they face daily , including the following up on every nutcase's threat on the life of the most powerful man in the world . It's a decent suspense and investigative thriller , with enough subplots to keep you entertained . But one thing though , like most ending action sequences , this one has a big enough loophole for you to fly a jumbo jet through .
A Nutshell Review : Love in the Time of Cholera	Now we all know the horror stories that come with long distance relationships , and sometimes absence doesn't make the heart grow fonder . For Florentina's case , efforts by his mother ( Fernanda Montenegro ) to make him forget and move on were to no avail , as he degenerates into a sobbing wreck . It seems that to overcome love once was , and to move on , has to come from within . How long can one wait ? In my case , it might be around 5 years before you realize you're a dumb fool , and you'll probably find some means to channel your energies and keep yourself distracted . All 51 years , 9 months and 4 days ! Of course this is fiction , so the longer the duration , the spicier his life for a story becomes . In his effort to try and distract himself , he becomes the quintessential Don Juan Casanova , when he discovers the joy to bodily explosions to drown his sorrows . Yes you heard me right , that's why this movie garners an M18 rating here . And his character provides interesting insights to those who can probably identify with the pain of having being let go and rejected by his first love on the fly , without explanation , without seeing it coming . Spurned by love , his infatuation brings him to want to compete and upgrade himself socially as well , to want to be the best , and liken himself to be that catch that got away . However this is not only a story about Florentina , but also about his love Fermina . For reasons somewhat unexplained , her moving on and marriage to a doctor ( played by Benjamin Bratt ) seem to be constant fuel for Florentina as he resorts to having a stalker tendency , curious to find out how the love of his life once is up to now . Little glances around town , without her reciprocation , seem to be sufficient . While he had wished in all earnestness that she has a happy / happier life without him , Fermina's portion of the story dwells on the fact that all is not as smooth as one would expect , bringing about a little sense of that probable regret in making the wrong move , and some nagging " what-ifs " . Director Mike Newell's movie is rich in its sets , and no effort spared in the technical aspects of it , recreating some really wonderful moments of the era of steamboats together with an emotive score . The movie also marks original song contributions by Shakira , but unfortunately the few contributions were reduced to mere scattered portions , not a complete song . The makeup was also stunning in making the youthful actors age ( we're talking about 50 years , so what do you expect ? ) , which lend some accentuation to the actor's performance . I thought Javier Bardem was pitch perfect as the Romeo turned Casanova , a pained man who seeks immediate short term pleasure , consistently , while we know that beneath his playboy facade is a man who's been terribly hurt , and is somewhat still yearning for any moment where he can be together with his true love . However , the plot and his character toward the final act made him seemed too vengeful despite his sincerity , in having a sole objective of wanting to put his banana into the fruit bowl . Giovanna Mezzogiomo started off quite plainly , but as the story developed , so could we watch her character grow from strength to strength given limited screen time . Love in the Time of Cholera is a love story with an epic scale , a tale of two lovers who just could have been should circumstances allow , but had to take more than 50 years to make something out of it , starting very early with being apart even during their budding years . It might not be touching enough to warrant any tears , given the protagonist here is a jilted man rather than a woman who will probably deserve our sympathy , however , it serves to remind all those out there who are still holding candles , while you keep the memories you share , you should not forget to snuff out the flame , and move on for sanity's sake .
A Nutshell Review : Find Me Guilty	We're all familiar with Vin Diesel being the new action hero , with his buffed muscular body , bald pate , gruff voice and his high octane movies like Fast and the Furious and xXx . He took a different path into comedy with The Pacifier , and now , into drama with Find Me Guilty . How did he fair ? Pretty good , in spite of the focus being on his new look hairdo and belly ( ok , so it's prosthetics and makeup assisted ) . Playing a real life mobster Jack DiNorscio , and the true story of his defense of himself in court without a lawyer , in an extremely long trial spanning 21 months , where it's the US Government versus the Lucchese crime family . The movie started off promisingly with a tense scene classic of any mafia movies , that of a hit job , though it's laced with some unexpected humour . Alas , just as you thought the movie will go uphill from then on , it actually stalled and cruised along , before tapering from the halfway mark until the end . Diesel as DiNorscio deftly balanced dramatics with flair for comedy , labelling himself as a " gagster " rather than a " gangster " , inevitably forming a bond with the jurors of the case , getting into the skin of the prosecutors and having a hard time convincing his fellow chums that his loyalties still lie with the family , that he'll never rat them out or knowingly jeopardize their chances in court . However , amongst his buddies , he fared the worst , having to defend himself in court and go home to his jail cell , where he's still serving time . It's a bit like doing your all for your family , but yet experiencing a non-reciprocal feeling from them . You probably won't care much for the other characters , consisting of many minor role hoodlums and their numerous legal representatives . Perhaps the only other role having prominence is Ron Silver's Judge Finestein , who has to precede over this gruelling cast and at the same time reining in DiNorscio's antics . Although this movie boasts the using of actual court transcripts for its dialogue , there are not enough compelling arguments , objections , challenges and square offs . Rather , the movie zooms by quite quickly to the basic significant courtroom sessions - it's obvious you can't cover 21 months worth of material in 2 hours . So for those eager to watch top-notch courtroom drama , you might go away a little disappointed , but if you buy into Vin Diesel's charm , and of course for Vin Diesel fans , you might go away enjoying every moment of his screen presence .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) He Loves Me . . . He Loves Me Not	This is a relatively short movie , and to dwell on it too much might just take away the enjoyment of discovering what the story has to say . The tagline's quite apt for this movie - Every love story has two sides . So you might think that you love someone , and how sure are you about that feeling ? And to the other person , does he / she feel the same , and reciprocate ? It might be a bad case of infatuation , lust , or just plain miscommunication and misinterpretation of mixed or wrong signals . Audrey Tautou plays Angelique , an arts student who is in love with a doctor Loic . Problem is , the doc's married and his wife is expecting a baby . The premise already hints of an unconventional love story , that from the point of view of " the other woman " , who in her own reasoning , doesn't see herself as a family wrecker . And of course it's all too easy to blame Loic as the cad who can't keep his trousers zipped . Did I already mention that this is an unconventional love story ? If you think that the above premise is nothing new ( since it's done to death in various drama serials ) , this film pulls the rug from right under your feet , by having go back in time ( like , literally rewinding ! ) , and watching the entire sequence of events again from Loic's point of view . Without spoiling it at all for you , I can say any audience will be in for a bit of a surprise , along the lines of perception , gestures , body language , as well as having a mystery built into the narrative . Things are not quite what they seem , especially when that strong emotion called Love comes into the scheme of things . It's a major departure , at least for me , to see Audrey Tautou take on a role like this . I think she already has this quirky sweetie pie image projected from her Amelie days , and this role was something vastly different . A refreshing change , though she still maintains those whimsical forlorn gaze from her huge eyes , and that I so adore ( hmm . . . think I am starting to have this thing for eyes now . . . . ) It's not a feel good romance in that sense , but one which demonstrates that Love has this ability to captivate you , and probably make you behave in some irrational manner . Although this one takes that notion to the extreme , you can't help but wonder , isn't that what stalkers do all the time ?
A Nutshell Review : Saw IV	For fans of the Saw trilogy , you'd thought that the end of the third installment had wrapped up the franchise quite neatly , and there's absolutely no way another movie can be made except to go backwards in time with prequels . Well , surprise surprise , director Darren Lynn Bousman brings forth the fourth movie of the franchise , and so long as it continues to churn profits , you can bet your last dollar this isn't the last you see of the Saw movies . To be cautious , here's a little spoiler warning for you if you decide to read further . And one reminder , please refresh your memory of the earlier Saw movies , especially Parts II and III , before you go for 4 . This is the beginning of a new franchise so to speak , with the obvious signs that it has attempted to be all encompassing , being a little timid to boldly create something fresh with a new direction , as it had to still fall back on Jigsaw to provide some stability first . And from the get go , Saw IV never lets up on the blood , starting the movie with plenty of plasma , and scenes directly reminding me of Unrest , with an autopsy being performed on our favourite cinematic serial killer . But things are always not quite they seem , especially when the signature tune gets played . As I mentioned , Saw IV goes for a two-pronged approach . One , to continue exactly where it left off from Part III , and thereby reintroducing us to characters and their demise from the earlier installment , and the constant mystery of just who exactly was the mantle passed on to , given this becoming a plot point left dangling . Two , given the relative successful creation of the enigmatic Jigsaw , now comes the time to fill up on the meat to his background story that we get a glimpse into from the past movies . In parts , this was like an origin story , about who he is , what he does , which circumstances occurred and drove him over the edge , and what actually provided that spark to his devilish creations and philosophy of twisted chance . I had mixed feelings for this movie , as I would for almost all movies caught in the middle of different methodologies and approaches . What I liked , was this origin portion , although it was played out sporadically , and left you clamouring for more . We even get to see Jigsaw's earliest designs , which were quite primitive but no less effective , and his pioneer victim , thus appreciating how complex the later traps have evolved , but yet keeping to his mantra and modus operandi , an immensely important part which distinguishes this villain from others . What I didn't appreciate , and this was in part due to the earlier movies with recurring and surviving characters , was that they all get lumped together here in too big a life-and-death game boiling down on coincidence and plenty of sheer luck . It was a necessary evil though involving so many characters , to keep you constantly guessing until the last minute , and to close up all the gaps that the earlier movies posed , so as to set the stage and move the franchise forward , probably in a different way in Saw V . You will be confused if you haven't seen the earlier films . This film is not standalone , and is very much integral to all the earlier stories . If you go into this fresh , you will not know who's who , and what's what , and will definitely be confused and not appreciate anything beyond the bloody creative traps . For those who have seen the earlier movies ( Part II in 2005 , Part III in 2006 ) you might have forgotten certain details , but fret not , just pay healthy attention to the dialogue , and keep your eyes peeled during the flashbacks , and you should do just fine . Saw has come a long way from being just a cleverly played out movie in one critical locale with just 2 players duking it out , and with the ditching of the iconic grimy toilet for Saw IV , it's an indication that it wants to shed itself of past inhibitions . While the key figure might have met his demise , he had already set in motion his ideas and philosophy that have its fair share of supporters , and the concept will outlast the man himself . What Saw had spawned was a series of torture porn movies ( Turistas , Hostel franchise , Wolf Creek , the list goes on ) , but what makes it truly memorable , is how easily its ideology gets transplanted to other wannabes , and as a sign of it reaching legendary and cult status , its momentous theme song is one of a kind .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The New One-Armed Swordsman ( 1971 )	I can't remember the details behind the reason why Wang Yu left the franchise , but Chang Cheh replaced him with David Chiang in the titular role , and of course it's a totally new character , having his own motivations and background , as compared to Yu's Fang Gang . Written by Ni Kuang ( author of HK's popular Wesley science fiction series ) , the new one - armed swordsman is now Lei Li ( Chiang ) , an arrogant young swordsman whose specialty is his " yuan-yang " double swords . A hotheaded , up and coming hero , a diabolical plot was hatched by Lung I Ching , a veteran swordsman in the martial arts world , to keep these young upstarts at bay . With his three-joint-poles , which always seem to defy gravity , he schemes and manages to duel with Lei Li , defeating him and caused Li's arm to be chopped off . Herein lies the difference between this One Armed Swordsman , and the original Fang Gang . Fang Gang had lost his arm because someone else hacked it off in a fit of rage . Here , Lei Li actually gambled with his arm - the loser of the duel would have to remove it , and retire from " society " . While Fang Gang had to learn his martial arts all over again , Lei Li was already skilled with his left hand , because he was originally ambidextrous . Also , Fang Gang's weapon of choice is his father's iconic broken sword , Lei Li doesn't seem to have any preference , and could fight with any . While there is a token romance with the daughter of a village blacksmith , the introduction of a special sword didn't seem to auger well , and it didn't last - it lacked something special , be it emotions or prowess , and seemed too generic . Anyway , I can't help but to chuckle at Ti Lung's character Feng Chun-Chieh , also a young upcoming swordsman who uses two swords . Chun-Chieh and Lei Li formed a sense of brotherhood when the former protected the latter from bullies , only because the latter doesn't wish to use his martial arts skills anymore . They become fast friends , but from the way their scenes were shot - the numerous hugs , back-slapping , arm holding , eyes longing , you might be expecting one of them to say that if only he knew how to quit the other . That aside , you'd come to expect the usual ketchup blood laden violence which have become the hallmarks of Chang Cheh's swordfighting movies . Here , it doesn't get any less bloody , and scenes can be quite graphic with the numerous decapitations of limbs , and one really interesting decapitation of half a human body , across the waist . There are plenty of set action pieces , like that iconic fight on the bridge with many footsoldiers simultaneously . Scenes like these are what Tarantino adopted in his homage Kill Bill double feature , where the hero goes on an unstoppable roaring rampage . Though I must admit the introductory fights don't contribute much to the plot - just there for the sake of showing off what Lei Li can achieve . All in all , it's great fun , just to watch what our parents were watching as they grew up , and comparing these films to the standards of today . While cheesy , the good old classics stand out for their groundbreaking effort in those days , to bring us what has evolved till now . Code 3 DVD contains minimal extras , just one trailer , a photo gallery , the original poster , one general paragraph passing off as production notes , a biography and selected filmography of the cast and crew .
A Nutshell Review : Labu dan Labi	Labu dan Labi tells the tale of the cook ( Labu ) and the driver ( Labi , played by Ramlee himself ) of a stingy poker Haji Bakhil ( and translated as such too ) . Each harbours affections for Bakhil's daughter Manisah , but the main obstacle is of course Bakhil himself , who'll only approve his daughter marrying a rich man . While the beginning was at risk of sliding into boredom , the movie picks up pace when the two servants start to day-dream ( and often cross into each other's dream ) about the good life , one as a magistrate , the other a doctor . And some dreams were fantasy and zany , like the Cowboy and the Tarzan scenes . At this point , it sort of reminded me of the various set pieces in Tim Burton's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory , in the way the narrative progressed . There's a hilarious touch on the supernatural as well , like the engaging of bomohs , and watch out though , there's gonna be a rug pulled under your feet if you're not alert : - ) The introduction is shot in an earnest way , with each character narrating their backgrounds straight at the camera , engaging the audience , as if it was a play . There are moments in the film too , where this technique is being used . Speaking of plays , besides the introduction where actual scenic shots of old Singapore were captured ( like Middle Road , Capitol Theatre , Victoria Memorial Hall ) , film sets were obviously built for Bakhil's house , complete with fake backdrop , and the interiors for the nightclub scene . Transitions were tacky , using the clock at the Victoria Memorial Hall tower to tell the time in which the next scene takes place . Compared to movies of today , you can tell how much this film has aged from the sets built and techniques used . However , these do not take away the enjoyment of the film .
A Nutshell Review : Shanghai Knights	OK , I'll mention not of the bland storyline , not of the kung-fu action ( Jackie Chan seems to be a tad slower these days don't you think ? ) , not of the infamous ooh-la-la licking scene where a sultry Fann licks Owen . This review will focus on the gags . Yup , you got me . The gags , without which , the film will never be the same : 1 . The ( mis ) pronounciation of Chon Wang as John Wayne ( ok , this is carried over from the first film ) 2 . How Roy creates Sherlock Holmes ! 3 . How the aspiring police inspector-writer happened to be Sir Arthur Conan Doyle , and how he got knighted ! 4 . How Roy unwittingly gave away his creation Sherlock Holmes to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle ( haha ! ) 5 . Charlie Chaplin appears in the show ! ( yeah , he's the kid you see in the trailers ! ) Now you know where he got his inspiration from ! 6 . Wonder what happened to Jack the Ripper ? Fann has the answer ! 7 . Automobiles are a weird invention , Roy ? However , nothing much can be said of your investments in zeppelins : P 8 . Moving pictures present a good investment opportunity And yes , stay on after the film ends . The outtakes , as usual , are always hilarious .
A Nutshell Review : Batman ( 1996 )	BAM POW ZAP Who can forget the letters splashed across the screen each time Batman and Robin sucker-punch villains in the 60s Batman television serial ? Forget Christian Bale's accurate portrayal of the Dark Knight . This is Adam West's camp version of the character in the 1960s , and together with " holy-spewing " Robin , they ham it up with their classic chemistry on screen as the dynamic duo . Taking on a total of four villains , The Joker ( Cesar Romero ) , Penguin ( Burgess Meredith ) , Catwoman ( Lee Meriwether taking the place of Julie Newmar ) and The Riddler ( Frank Gorshin ) , the dynamic duo battles their evil plans , on world domination by capturing the Security Council of the UN . But getting there and having their diabolical plot materialize is a test of patience , as the plot seemed to beat about the bush . With a bigger budget to work with , we actually get to see various inane gadgets ( which are dated nonetheless ) , and vehicles like the well-known Batmobile , Batboat , Batcopter , and Batcycle . Certain aspects of the series are migrated to the movie as well , like the weird camera angles , and the walk - up - the - side - of - the - building - with - a - batrope sequence . Corny dialogue delivered with straight laced faces , perhaps this movie is strictly for bat-fans ( to watch for the sake of completion ) , and fans of the 60s serial . The true gems in the DVD are the documentaries and the audio commentary by Adam West and Burt Ward . It's amazing how they've aged gracefully , with Ward putting on visible pounds in his cheeks . They share various anecdotes on the casting and shooting of the film , which any bat-trivia enthusiast will lap up with glee . Code 1 DVD extras : Audio commentary , trailer , and various documentaries like the Tour of the Batmobile , and Batman Featurette .
A Nutshell Review : One Last Dance	The first local production for this year , it's a movie made with an international cast and crew , most notably , Asian film stars in Francis Ng , Ti Lung and Vivian Hsu , with a guest appearance by Harvey Keitel as an Italian mobster . It's no surprise that Raintree Pictures , in a bid to go regional and international , is holding nothing back to attract local and foreign talent to get them involved in locally produced movies . And I guess One Last Dance is such a fine example , helmed by upcoming Brazilian director Max Makowski . I would liked to have loved this movie wholeheartedly , but it's not an easy movie to follow , especially when it keeps to its tagline that it's a story made up of different jigsaw pieces , each telling a story of its own . There are many seemingly disparate scenes glued together thinly , and it'll be easy for the ordinary viewer , especially one with little patience , to get lost within the plot . The dialogue too seemed stifled , and sometimes you wonder just what the characters are driving at . The draw of this movie no doubt is Francis Ng . He's the " mental " guy who's truly deft in playing crazed characters , be they good or evil . Here , he's the calm , collected , and uber ruthless hit-man with a penchant for chess and never walks around with a loaded gun . He accepts deals anonymously via red " angpaos " dropped into a mailbox , containing just names of the prey ( though you wonder how he actually gets paid ) . His opposite number is film legend Ti Lung , with whom he spars verbally , and on the chessboard . Forget about the other stars , as they are mostly bit parts , and the beautiful Vivian Hsu reduced to a pedestrian in a role that could have been played by any mediocre local actress . However , do keep a lookout for Joseph Quek . I'm surprised that he managed to snag a meaty role , and this will mark his second big screen outing after The High Cost of Living . Surely , an actor to keep tabs on , if he stars in subsequent movies . And I love the music , especially the theme song Broken Orange . It's now my earworm , and it constantly gets played over and over again in my head . The movie opens with the song , though I was perturbed that what was sung totally was out of sync with the English subtitles shown on screen , in an attempt to explain the meaning . Another pity too is that we got to watch the movie in the dubbed Mandarin track instead of its original Cantonese glory . I still rue for the day when HK movies are allowed to be shown in its native tongue , and get classified as a " foreign " movie , as do the French , German , Russian , Japanese , Korean , etc which do not get dubbed at all here . To make up for a relatively simple plot ( when all is finally revealed ) , the movie relies heavily on its slick editing techniques to splice the narrative together . However , the CGI blood splatterfest seemed too artificial , as I thought the good ol ' blood pack will suffice and still maintain certain visual beauty to it all . It almost lived up to its hype , but if you're a fan of Francis Ng , then my recommendation is to watch it . And don't be a dumb dork - stay until the end of the credits for THE GEM OF A SCENE . Many people during the gala didn't bother , what a pity !
A Nutshell Review : Ghajini DV	So the dust is beginning to settle for A . R . Murugadoss ' Ghajini starring Aamir Khan , given that it had broken , and is still continuing to rake in stellar box office receipt records for a Bollywood movie around the world . For me , it piqued my interest enough to revisit his 2005 Tamil version starring Surya Sivakumar in the lead role , with Asin who also starred in both versions as Kalpana , and Pradeep Singh Rawat as the villain , curiously not called Ghajini here , but Laxman . I shall leave comparisons with Christopher Nolan's Memento unmentioned because I've done so with my earlier review of Ghajini ( 2008 ) . Instead I shall focus more on the similarities and differences in the Murugadoss films , since he crafted both the screenplay and dialogue , and directed both movies with predominantly the same leads , save for the protagonist Sanjay Ramasamy ( Surya Sivakumar ) inflicted with short term memory loss . The opening credits stayed similar , and for the first half hour , I thought I would be watching the same 2008 movie all over again . I see the same policeman ( Riyaz Khan ) going through the same investigations and employing tactics seen before , and even the scene transitions relied on the same time lapse technique already seen . The structure of the story remained for at least two-thirds of the film , and especially the romance between Kalpana and Sanjay , except for distinct differences such as the knowledge of who the chief villain is with the possession of the all important polaroid , and spending some time showing how Sanjay had tattooed himself with the clues . While it may be easy to work on a remake , given that you're basically rehashing what you've done before , and more so with experienced actors in the same role again , it is easy to free fall into complacency and to go through the motions with your own remake especially . But kudos to Murugadoss for identifying plot loopholes , and to make changes for the better in the Hindi version , rather than to import such flaws wholesale into the new movie . Obviously the production values were ramped up significantly from this version , but that's not the only thing that had improved . as was the editing . The pace here is pretty much slower , and had plenty of fat which were removed in the latest version . Tweaks were done for the better in the latest , especially so in the editing department to gel scenes together much more effectively . Here , you get abrupt jumps and cuts , so the narrative turned out to be a bit choppy at times , especially so when it's time for the rudimentary song and dance sequence which pops out from almost nowhere . Sorely missed were the daily routine that Sanjay would have to relive everyday , which I thought was an important scene to reinforce his difficulty in trying to hunt down the gangsters . The final act turned out to be an all out whackfest without too much thought put into making this film more plausible , opting instead for a pseudo-terrorist hostage situation . You could tell from the onset at this point that there were a few scenes Murugadoss would have elected to do differently , such as to avoid having Sanjay as a muscled and skilled fighter from the onset , with exaggerated Kollywood styled prowess to boot too . These were toned down for Bollywood , and having Aamir show off his six-packs from extreme training also helped to make it believable . Murugadoss also decided to downplay and eliminate the complicated finale battle here , which made use of wire-fu , and his decision to change the that battle to that seen in the Hindi version , is much appreciated for creating a stronger sequence altogether . Even the very last scene of his reworked version fared miles better since it sent home some very strong emotional chords to the audience , rather than this version here which actually was quite creepy ( my first thoughts were of reincarnation ! ) Music wise , with all due respect to Haarris Jayaraj for his work here , I thought A . R . Rahman's actually worked better . The music here , while still effective , was a little downbeat , and the picturization ( if that's what it's called ) could have been vastly improved , many times being something like watching a tacky 80s made music video . Compare Guzarish and Sutrum Vizhi ( which is my favourite song of the lot in this film ) , and you'll see what I mean . The placeholders for music to come on were pretty much the same , save for this version having what I thought was 2 distinct pieces reworked or removed totally from the remake for pace purposes . Sutrum Vizhi has this really hypnotic , head-banging beat to it . My frank opinion would be to watch the Hindi version not because it's vastly superior , but for its production values as well as a more coherent story reworked for a much better result . This version is still valuable in terms of seeing how far everyone had come , and for fans of Asin , this is the film that provided her that breakthrough in her career . The Region Free DVD by Venai Holdings is presented in matted letterbox format . Visual transfer is average at best , seemingly done off a VHS quality source . Toward the last hour there's this curious green tinge at the top right hand corner , but wasn't irritating enough to mar the enjoyment of the film . At times there were some pops and cackles in the visuals as well , but nothing too serious . Audio quality is in stereo and in the original language track , with English subtitles as an option . No other extra features contained in the DVD . Guess I shall wait for Ghajini 2008 to see if it comes with a special edition of sorts for some making of documentaries . Given the box office success , I don't see why not .
A Nutshell Review : 12 Rounds	Renny Harlin has been relatively quiet these days , but I won't be shy in stating for a fact that I had enjoyed some of his action movies in the past , with the likes of Die Hard 2 ( despite all the loopholes ) , Cliffhanger with Stallone , Driven ( also starring Sly ) and The Long Kiss Goodnight even . Despite being better known for duds starting with Cutthroat Island , Mindhunters and even The Covenant which turned out to be a comedy , 12 Rounds turned out to be better than expected , also because John Cena looked the classic action hero that Hollywood so sorely misses . No , I'm not a WWE John Cena wrestling fan , because my interest in WWE was left back when it was known as WWF , and like The Rock ( now wanting to be known simply as Dwayne Johnson ) , Cena follows in his footsteps in making that leap to the big screen . While his first outing as The Marine was pretty much straight to DVD fare , this one was designed for the big screen with its big set action pieces befittingly challenging the big man , and having an old hand of action at the helm helped to bring out some enjoyable moments despite clichés abound . As the trailer would already have suggested , Danny Fisher ( Cena ) is a beat cop who gets in the way of a heist by international arms trader Miles Jackson ( Aiden Gillen who was just a mile wide of being a memorable psychopathic villain ) , and in his pursuit causes the latter's main squeeze to die in a traffic accident . Ridden with rage , Miles remembers his pursuer so that he can exact revenge when he breaks out of prison . Only that he harbours some diabolical plot to play with his prey , hence the kidnapping of Danny's girlfriend Molly ( Ashley Scott ) and the devising of 12 rounds of city-wide games with the overcoming of each round leading Danny closer to his girl . So begins a running around New Orleans to perform the usual one-man cop stunts that calls for everything from intellect to brute force . It could easily fit into the Die Hard franchise , or Speed for that matter as one sequence in a bus would have me reminisce . In shows like these , things do get a tad convenient , and though I tried to examine just a little bit more into it , the plot still made some sense and held some water . In some moments it seemed like it's paying its own tribute to the emergency services of New Orleans post-Katrina , with the police , fire and medical departments featured prominently as occupations of choice of its characters . 12 Rounds is rip-roaring fun . As an action film , it has enough thrills and spills if you'd just park aside believability for a minute , and bask in the possibility of one man saving the world only because it got personal stakes involved , coming complete with obnoxious FBI agents who think they know the world . Sprinkled with some light touches of humour , the body count here is surprisingly low , which in some way gave a breathe of fresh air instead of subscribing to the mantra that the more gruesome or gritty , the better . But if there are qualms , it's directed more at the technical areas , like the lapsing into the shaky cam , where I had thought to roll my eyes and exclaim that Renny should have bought a bloody tripod for his DOP . Also , the editing probably needed to rethink his quick cuts in the final action sequence in closed quarters , as well as some cheesy lines where it's not warranted ( I swear if I hear one more " wrong place , wrong time " comment . . . ) However if you go at this with expectations set low , you might just come out with a grin at the end of it . I'll be anticipating more John Cena movies to come , and will probably go dig at his older film as well , but here's hoping that he doesn't go the way that most action stars do - easy come and easy go - that he gets some longevity at the box office , before being unceremoniously pushed aside ( if it does happen , like Seagal's career ) to the straight to video shelves .
A Nutshell Review : Borat	Borat is unapologetically vulgar . And it is no surprise that various groups , from the Kazakhstans , to the gypsies , gays , charismatic Christians , Jews , feminists , and even Americans themselves would find certain aspects of it distasteful . But I like , vair nice ! I liked the shock and awe tactics used on unsuspecting folks on the streets and various other locales in this mockumentary , never mind if some sequences were scripted , versus the spontaneity of others . There's slapstick , witty lines , double entrées , sight gags , toilet humour , fact is , the filmmakers threw in everything from the humour genre , save for the kitchen sink . If there should be any semblance of a plot , it would be Borat's adventures to the United States and America , at first to learn the culture and good stuff that the Americans can offer , make a documentary for make benefit glorious nation of Kazakhstan . From NY to Los Angeles , it becomes a road trip of sorts , with each city or town along the way made a pitstop for his madcap antics . Borat has a hidden agenda of course , and that is to track down and marry Pam Anderson , whom he fell in love while watching an old episode of Baywatch . That's all I will say , and I'll not even suggest anything in particular which I enjoyed for fear of ruining the pleasure for you . Word of advice : if you haven't seen the trailers , DON'T ! I shan't attempt to go into supposed deeper insights as I refuse to believe that this was made with the intention insulting others or find wicked pleasure at laughing at ourselves , or laughing at our own inner prejudices , blah blah blah . It's a god-damned crazy movie , and you must admit that Sacha Baron Cohen had the guts and gumption to pull off something like this with his Borat character . The only gripe , if I should have , would be the pacing of the movie . It's rather jarring as episodes are presented one after another , and the pace naturally goes whacked , especially with the slower bits . Thankfully , they were not allowed to drag on for too long , before another lighter moment takes over . So if you're allergic to the sensitivities of the less fortunate , or cannot stand making fun of various self interest groups , then give Borat a miss . Otherwise , you're in for a rip-roaring good time , and remember to listen attentively to the dialogue - there are plenty of gems in there !
A Nutshell Review : Could This Be Love	Directed by Pierre Jolivet , Could This Be Love contains all the trappings that would making Hollywood come knocking on its doors for the rights to a remake . You have your romantic leads , a rich industrialist and a talented artist , start off with being loggerheads , before the pursuit begins over conversation and comedy . There's the myriad of supporting characters like the secretary , driver and family , but the one which stood out in the film , was an inhouse investigator . When it comes to business , Lucas ( Vincent Lindon ) is unparalleled in his acumen , though he defers to his investigator Roland ( Francois Berleand ) to dig up any dirt on the competition or partners , or even his own staff , to have a second informed and unbiased opinion . Being estranged from his wife , he has no luck with women , especially when they're sent by competitors to fish for information . Hence the paranoia and fear with members of the opposite sex that he fancies . Elsa ( Sandrine Bonnaire ) is the artist commissioned for a project at his office lobby , and while he takes an almost instant liking to her , she's one tough nut to crack , so meanwhile , he sends Roland on his usual behind the scenes work . I guess nobody would like to be spied upon , especially not by someone whom you just come to know trivially . It tells you something , that there isn't a bedrock of trust to begin with , the very foundations that a relationship would be built upon . On one hand you fancy somebody , and on the other you'd come to appreciate if you could get the lowdown and having some honest beans spilled ? if bad , then walk away , otherwise the pursuit could continue until such time some degree of dirt get dug out , then all bets are off . For the most parts this movie played out like your standard romantic comedy , and my , the comedic moments were funny given the timing of Vincent Lindon . I especially enjoyed the extended scene of anticipation , dread and regret , when he gets invited back to Elsa's apartment which is rigged by surveillance devices , when he just couldn't respond the come hither opportunities , knowing that his employee would or could be watching . And it were moments such as these ? running afoul of his own mitigation of fear , or having his excuses to take some time off from work for his romantic escapades , that blow up in his face . The chemistry between Sandrine Bonnaire and Vincent Lindon worked perfectly , that you'll have no qualms to have this couple charm you into sitting through what is essentially formula , where boy meets , pursues , loses the girl of his dreams . It doesn't however bore you with too many saccharine sweet moments , but what it does accurately , was perhaps to paint the culture of fear amongst those who dare not take that leap of faith , which probably is required by anyone wanting to get into a romantic life with someone else .
A Nutshell Review : Igor	With a barrage of ultra cute characters ruling animated worlds these days , one wonders if macabre characters would appeal if not coming from the creatively dark mind of Tim Burton . With wonderful animation flicks like The Nightmare Before Christmas and Corpse Bride being tentpoles for animation touching on darker themes and realms ( as with festival darlings such as Fear ( S ) of the Dark ) , Igor would find itself in good company , and it lives up in certain terms to belong . Voiced by the excellent John Cusack , Igor is a typical hunchback and because of his physical disability and rights ( or lack thereof ) in the land of Malaria , Igors in general have a single career path , and that is slave to the scientists of the land . Yearning to be one of the greatest scientists one day despite societal perception and prejudice , opportunity arises when his master kicks the bucket , and he seizes the opportunity to do what the scientific community cannot do - create life . Of course in order to clinch the yearly accolade of scientist of the year , the creation must have a mean killing / horrific streak , but Igor's creation of Eva ( Molly Shannon ) is actually that of a kind soul with an addiction for the theatre and the arts . Not very suited to scaring and beating up opponents . So in a tussle between the actual being and her intended role comes an unlikely romantic story that somehow managed to touch the hearts , resembling how in relationships one tend to change the other subconsciously ( or consciously for some ) , and vice versa . Adversary comes in the form of scam scientist Dr Schadenfreude ( Eddie Lizard ) and his chameleon wife Jacklyn ( Jennifer Coolidge ) who scheme to steal Eva away from Igor and fulfill her intended evil purpose , and it's up to Igor and his crazy creations and sidekicks Scamper ( Steve Buscemi ) and Brian / Brain ( Sean Hayes ) to save the day . Some of the best lines were reserved for the banter between Scamper and Brain , and I thought these two characters actually lift the movie when it fell prey to the tried and tested story formula , providing some genuinely funny moments when you least expected . The animation here really challenged the notion of having everything aesthetically pleasing . Here , the filmmakers went for god-awful ugly , but yet having the magical effect of making it appealing . As a reminder not to judge a book by its cover , one can often feel repulsed by the lack of proportions in Eve's build , but what she lacks for on the outside , gets immensely compensated by the good on the inside . And it is this cheery disposition in spite of a gruff exterior , that exudes throughout the movie as well . With a surprisingly star-studded supporting voice cast with the likes of Christian Slater , Jay Leno , John Cleese and even Arsenio Hall , Igor may not have scaled new heights in animation techniques nor with its fairy-tale story , but for what it lacked it made it up for with plenty of heart . And I guess for an animated story , that will always be premium and will always matter .
A Nutshell Review : The All-Out Nine - Field of Nightmares	After yesterday's relatively boring selection , this sports comedy served up a pleasant surprise . The crowd was larger than I expected for the paid portion of the festival starting from today , and hey , it's not bad that The All-Out Nine was on widescreen at the National Museum Gallery Theatre . Adapted from manga , The All-Out Nine - Field of Nightmares , set its tone for madcap humour right from the onset , with a big looming black object flying on screen towards Earth , in the spirit of Star Wars . We're introduced to the lead character Toshi Fukutsu ( Tetsuji Tamayama ) , the " All-Out " school's baseball team captain , as he pleads with his principal , in kung-fu fashion , not to shut down the team for its lack of honours . I'm unsure if the manga carried the same tone in its presentation , but the look and feel of the movie borrowed a huge leaf from Stephen Chow's Shaolin Soccer ( SS ) , with its wacky crew of sub-par players , in a team called " All-Out " ( like SS's town of Pig-Sty ) , and within the crew , there's always the obligatory pudgy guy and resident babe . In fact , most characters here are cardboard characters , one dimensional and most of the time inserted and appearing just for laughs , like the baseball team coach , whose experience is in Sepak Takraw , and who look and sounds more like a motivational speaker rather than a sports coach . His appearance was damn hilarious , and irrelevant as well . The running theme through the story is on Adversity , and how , through an indomitable spirit , challenges , no matter how impossible ( and they are ) can probably be overcome . And these implausible challenges come fast and furious , and at times don't make much sense . Then again , you remember this is a farcical movie anyway , with many moments filled with extreme animation and special effects , making it look very manga like , especially with those gigantic overhanging words of wisdom . But unlike SS which builds the moments to a crescendo of a finale , The All-Out Nine seemed to be doing it in reverse . It had a brilliant start and middle with your senses assaulted with different humour ranging from verbal to the slapstick , but somehow lost its steam halfway . At some points you know what the filmmakers are going to pull out of the humour hat , but if compared to SS , you'll see without a doubt which one is relatively superior . Somehow the story didn't allow for many opponents to be presented , and the final game was dragged out for too long , with tiring ideas .
A Nutshell Review : The New World	Yet another victim of incorrect marketing , for those unfamiliar with Terrence Malick's style , the trailers would have mislead you to think that The New World is one heck of a suspense filled action packed movie . It is not . What is evident is Mallick's style imprinted throughout , with characters expressing innermost thoughts through voice-over narratives , plenty of nothingness , and beautiful postcard visuals . For the new generation bred on Disney's Pocahontas , The New World is a more adult take on the tale . There is no song and dance , there is no " magicalness " in this new world , and there are no characters perpetually on Prozac . Think along this line : the Louis Cha martial arts classic series The Condor Heroes , and Wong Kar Wai's Ashes of Time . The former being Disney's Pocahontas in ease of understanding , the latter being Mallick's movie . Same characters , similar stories , in a grittier adult environment . The New World begins with the merry men of England's colonials seeking new grounds to set up camp , and slowly develop their new found lands . Wait , make that a bunch of hungry desperadoes on the verge of insanity when their food supplies are threatened . And they come with prejudices as well - the native Americans are categorized as savages , but as we witness ourselves , it isn't difficult to understand who the actual savages are . Discovery and exploration cut both ways . The English , through John Smith , discovers the way of the natives ( ala The Last Samurai , but without much dialogue here , but plenty visuals ) , and the natives , being introduced to the English way of life , through the Pocahontas character . But as with clash of the cultures , the native Americans know of what the colonists have in their plans . First to establish a beach head , then to expand inwards with the possibility of threatening their own existence . What to you do in times like these ? You counter-plan for a pre-emptive strike . Beginning with kindness , and if it doesn't work , then it calls for more drastic violent measures . While the big picture's that of politicking , the more focused aspect will be going behind the thoughts of the main characters - John Smith ( Colin Farrell ) , Pocahontas ( newbie Q'Orianka Kilcher ) and John Rolfe ( Christian Bale ) . While they do not dialogue much throughout the movie , they rely on sheer acting skills to bring their characters to life . Which somehow is a joy to watch . The innocence of Pocahontas shone through brilliantly , as did a very complex and layered John Smith . John Rolfe perhaps was the more straightforward , generous character that is the easiest to understand . Weaved into the complex narrative style is that of longing . Smith longing for the life out of the new found land , Pocahontas to eventually much spend legitimate time with Smith , and Rolfe , perhaps the shortest screen time amongst all three , added into the fray in a triangle relationship ( Seriously , I'm don't qualify as a Bale groupie , but it was a really long wait before he appeared and had something to do . So fans , please take note ) . Besides love and longing , I was actually laughing inside at the sheer corruption of the colonists - strongest man of the moment rules , and another else can challenge the authority of those in power just with the strength of a powerful gun . Quite civilized . You have been warned . Not everyone will appreciate Mallick's works . It'll take a while to get used to during the course of the movie . You'll find many scenes with a familiar feel ( didn't I see something similar a while back ) , especially the wheat fields , so sexy .
A Nutshell Review : Thirteen Princess Trees	One wonders how this film would turn out should it not be censored to a certain degree , given that films about juvenile delinquency got the general frown from the Chinese censors , to avoid glamourizing non-socially accepted behaviour about disaffected youths and their open sexuality . Based on the novel Blade vs Blade by He Dacao , this film is reported toned down in its adaptation , and the narrative is compellingly telling of this shortcoming . Directed by Lu Yue , who was cinematographer on a number of Zhang Yimou movies , Thirteen Princess Trees is the name of a fictional school where the story of a group of teenagers unfolds . Think of it like Volcano High , or any other made-up schools in films such as that in Crows Zero with delinquent youths dominating the landscape , minus the fantastical fight sequences of course . Premise-wise , it could even be like Singapore's very own The Days , but the film opens with a tense hostage situation , before flashing back in timeline . We have Feng ( Liu Xin ) the tomboy with a penchant for knives , and the story takes on her point of view as the central character caught up in the thick of the action . Amongst those in her clique are A-Li ( Chen Keliang ) , a rich kid under the wing of protection by gang leader Taotao ( Duan Bowen ) , whom Feng is infatuated with , being on the receiving end of mixed signals , putting their relationship on and off in wash-rinse-repeat sequence . Things take a change when new student Bao ( Zhao Mengqiao ) joins their class , and takes an instant liking for the spunky Feng . It's an examination of the love triangle between the parties involved , and you can probably identify with the aloofness of cool kid Taotao , the pining for the unattainable from Feng's confused state when she rejects Taotao's advances , and also from the advances of the very direct Bao , who tries really hard with in his incessant pursuit to obtain her approval of acceptance . As to who wins in this battle of hearts , that's actually not as important as the more interesting angle of having some power play when Taotao gets hooked up with the new form teacher . As mentioned , here's where the censorship comes into play . While we do not see any shenanigans performed on screen by that of the forbidden relationship between teacher and student , Lu Yue managed to get around this through elements of suggestion , and the fine acting by the cast in telling a lot more that's going behind the scenes , than what can actually be shown . The power of suggestion here broke through , and just a single ogle , a glance , or a twitch of an eye , could reinforce plenty . Naturally it would be much more oblique should things be told in a more verbatim fashion , but I guess this would challenge filmmakers to be more creative and innovative in putting their narrative forward . There are certain points in time though that you'd feel some pathos were probably left hanging , or not thoroughly explored because doing so would mean to irk the censor board perhaps . Unlike The Days , there is a relatively stronger presence and existence of authority , but not always in positive light . We see the form teacher and her uneasy ability to assert her instructions on the students without resorting to or condoning violence , and a somewhat corruption of her moral authority with the canoodling with the rogue of the classroom for some r-e-s-p-e-c-t . Feng's father ( Shang Hui ) is a policeman who while on one hand is top notch at his job , but is somewhat of a failure in the bringing up of his daughter , again with the use of fists . Perhaps it's a not so subtle veil on how authoritarian figures are not as well received , especially when hands are raised , and no effort got spared for some condemnation . Winner of the Special Jury Prize at the 19th Tokyo International Film Festival , Thirteen Princess Trees still has plenty to offer despite going back to the drawing board and toning down scenes , resulting at times to obvious narrative breakage . The use of actors not well known also helped to provide an edge to characterization , and I guess the soundtrack was also quite peculiar with the repetitive playing of " Nan Er Dang Zhi Qiang " and " Xiao Ao Jiang Hu " over the school's PA speakers , akin to alluding that it's quite the cowboy town within the fictional school grounds .
A Nutshell Review : Running with Scissors	Just as romance movies fall under the tried and tested romantic-comedy or romantic-tragedy genres , if a movie is made about a family , you can be sure that it must be dysfunctional . And in Running with Scissors , one such family is insufficient , and you have the protagonist , Augusten Burroughs ( Joseph Cross ) , jump off the frying pan and into the fire , where he encounters even more weirdness in his surrogate family . Based on personal memoirs of the real Augusten Burroughs ( of course , with a certain degree of dramatic license ) , Running with Scissors appeals through its quirky ensemble cast . Starting with Augusten's own parents - an alcoholic father ( Alec Baldwin ) , and his mother whom he is extremely close with , Deirdre Burroughs , played excellently by Annette Benning , who is suffering from severe delusions that she's a great poet awaiting her potential to be unleashed to the world . As she slowly becomes unstable , Augusten is packed off to live with her own therapist Dr Finch ( Brian Cox ) . And it is here that the kaleidoscope of bizarre episodes start to take place in Augusten's life , no less contributed by the weird Finch family . Hope , the eldest daughter ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) is a God-fearing woman filled with blind faith , Mrs Finch ( Jill Clayburgh ) is unkempt and eats doggie snacks , while the youngest daughter , Natalie ( Evan Rachel Wood ) , is your typical teen rebel without a cause . Performances by the cast for the Finch family were great fun , especially Gwyneth's tongue-in-cheek take as a spinster . But the scene stealer was naturally Evan Rachel Wood , though I think she's about to get typecast if she continues in similar roles , which we have already seen in Thirteen and Pretty Persuasion . But amongst all , Annette Benning has put up a credible performance as the delusional mother , and is almost au naturel with her subtle mood swings and the constant guessing if she's actually intelligibly aware of what she's saying and doing . Joseph Cross too plays off her energy rather well , as the main protagonist , he has the responsibility to make the audience sympathize with his predicament , and he succeeded . Which is his total loss at how to deal with his family problems , of being the child stuck between two warring parents . Having a love hate relationship with the ones who brought you to this world , and nurtured you , is difficult . And to feel abandoned by your loved one when they pack you off to stay with another family just takes the cake . In the madness that he lived in , perhaps his soulmate is Natalie , who also seems to be the only sane person around the house , barring her uncouth mouth . In her , he can see himself as she experiences similar issues , and a time will come when they will both make important decisions that will change their lives . Filled with an eclectic and excellent soundtrack selection , Running with Scissors has great dialogue filled with enough innuendos and situations to tickle your funny bone , and its finale is surprisingly heartwarming . Recommended stuff .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Better Off Dead ( 1985 )	This movie is so typical of the 1980s teenage comedy classics , like Ferris Bueller's Day Off , or Fast Times from Ridgemonth High . It has your typical teenage protagonist , who can be either a complete loser geek , or on the flip side , the coolest dude in school . The plot would typically be about him getting his girl , or trying to win back his girl , against simple odds , in ridiculous madcap situations . A very young John Cusack plays Lane Meyer , a boy who loses his girl Beth to the school's ski jock Roy , who is the only person alive to ski the K-12 . Frustrated by Beth's throwing of their 6 months relationship , Lane tries to commit suicide , only that he becomes unsuccessful in his attempts . Of course , you cannot keep our good man down , and he slowly rediscovers his self belief and confidence , courtesy of a new romance with French exchange student Monique Junot . The cast is relatively huge , starting with the Meyer family - a father who can't get proper respect , a kid brother who is the family genius , and a mother who's cooking is of strange colours and can walk around on its own . You also have the loud mouthed neighbour with her overweight son , a nasty diner employer , a wicked and persistent newspaper delivery boy , two Asian brothers who like to race Lane , and of course , Beth and Roy . The jokes come in hard and fast , and varies from slapstick , to wit . I particularly like the scene where Lane and Beth first met , with the totally insane touching of the nose and ears stemming from reading too much of the opposite sex's body language . You'll probably be able to identify with some of the situations too , the pains of growing up . In all , Better Off Dead is one of Cusack's early movies , which seem to suggest that he's a master at playing non-conventional characters , as seen from his filmography . Definite must watch for his fans . Really barebones version of a Code 1 DVD .
A Nutshell Review : Disturbia	Disturbia played it smart in its release locally , by having pushed back its release date until almost every cinema goer had seen Michael Bay's Transformers , and become acquainted with the latest Hollywood " It " kid , Shia LaBeou , otherwise also better known as " the Transformers boy " . Being an uncredited remake of Hitchcock's classic Rear Window , Disturbia has our boy hero playing Kale , who's put on house arrest for having knocked the lights out of his teacher . So his home and front yard becomes his playground , but when mom ( Carrie-Anne Moss , would you believe that ? ) cut off his XBox and ITunes subscription , he turns to voyeurism to beat the blues and occupy time . In a scene in Transformers , LaBeou had to look for something at home . Now he turns to looking for entertainment in other people's home . And that included spying on the hot chick new neighbour Ashley ( Sarah Roemer ) , while keeping an eye on a possible serial killer staying next door , Mr Turner ( David Morse ) . It doesn't help that the trailer plays out almost the entire plot of the movie , and therefore you're pretty sure of what you're gonna get from it . The first half played on the teenage drama romance bit , with Kale figuring out how to woo the most attractive girl on the block , with the handicap of not being able to meet her in proper circumstances outside his home . But the movie banked heavily on Shia LaBeouf's boyish charisma , and that probably payed off loads . He's a lucky chap , as Sarah Roemer makes it two in a row ( the other being Megan Fox ) where his character gets up close and personal with hot chicks . The second half of the movie turned the spotlight a bit on the mystery on hand to solve , and while it isn't naturally original , I'd say it still managed to pull off an above average thriller , thanks to David Morse's ability to send some chills with his build , and two-faced acting , being perturbed by his privacy being invaded ( hey , serial killers need time alone to do their stuff ) , and yet wanting to be perceived as a gentle giant . Morse's one of the understated character actors today , and while his role is nothing groundbreaking , it still served its purpose . Don't expect too much from this movie , and you might find it an enjoyable breeze . Just keep a look out for LaBeouf's name to marquee bigger projects in the near future , starting with the new Indiana Jones movie .
A Nutshell Review : The Bow	An old man living on a boat together with a nubile teenage girl , is bound to set tongues wagging . There's nothing dirty about the relationship . He picked her up when she was 10 , and looked after her onboard ever since . She has never left the boat ; the outside world is unknown to her . Making a living by ferrying anglers to fish on board his boat in the deep blue sea , the old man is jealously guards his lover from potential lechers . It's a difficult thing to do , considering the girl prances around the ship in skimpy flimsy dresses . Sideline income stems from his ability to tell fortunes in a bizarre manner , well , actually it's the girl who tells the fortunes . Riding a swing at the side of the boat , she smiles sweetly at the old man , while he , from afar in another boat , fires 3 arrows onto a picture of Buddha . She interprets from the position of the arrows ( which always narrowly miss her ) , and whispers the fortune into the old man's ear , who in turn , whispers into the ear of the person who wants his fortune told . As such , we do not hear the man or the girl speak at all in the film , expressing themselves through body language , eye contact , smiles and touch . The bow in the title refers to the weapon , which is used primarily to fend off , or purposely drive away , lustful men , and in quieter moments , it is adapted by the old man into a stringed musical instrument , to serenade the night away . The girl too uses the bow ( and arrows ) as a means of self defence . However , things start to change when a young man joins a group of anglers to fish on board the old man's boat . Taken by the girl's beauty , and the girl by never seeing a young teenage lad , they get smitten with each other and a friendship begins , much to the distraught of the old man . He had plans to marry the girl when she turns 17 , and hurriedly brings forward his plan , while driving the young man away . Undetered , the young man seeks to discover the origins of the young girl , and plans to leave with her . The old man naturally goes into a fit and the relationship between him and the girl deteriorates badly into hissy tantrums from both sides . The ending is an interesting one , as with most of Kim Ki-duk's movies . Realising that their lives are so intertwined about each other and more , the old man and the young girl consummate their union in one of the most unreal circumstances filled with ambiguous metaphors which will raise eyebrows from the audience , and the young man mirrors the reaction from any viewer , as if Ki-duk expected and saw it coming . This was the closing film to Singapore's first Korean Film Festival , so for those interested to follow Ki-duk's movies , add this to your list . It's beautiful , though quirky , and the ending scene , quite explainable and left open to your interpretation .
A Nutshell Review : Arctic Tale	In 2005 , March of the Penguins brought us to the Antarctica , and introduced the life cycle of the emperor penguins to the mass audience . And Happy Feet was quick on its erm feet to seize the initiative and make an animated feature on our non-flying friends . Now , we journey to the opposite pole to visit Polar Bears and Walruses , but somehow , the former proved to be a logical choice for promotional posters . Having the worlds # 1 brand use them in their advertisements , and as I recall one cheeky ad involving a bear shaving excess fur , you would have thought that this would make another documentary worth sitting through . But Arctic Tale is not March of the Penguins . Narrated by Queen Latifah , it relied on similar themes and tactics in its narrative though , featuring the circle of life , and cute offsprings that you just want to cuddle ( before they become big and aggressive enough to tear you apart ) , but apart from those , it's a totally different ball-game altogether . For starters , the focus on Walruses allowed some kind of parallels to be drawn with the Polar Bears , with the common starting point for both species , the threats that they both face in terms of survival , and how intertwined their lives are actually , because one is prey to the hunter . It's amazing how the footage seen in the documentary were captured . As the end credits rolled , you do see stills on how up close and personal the filmmakers get to the action . But what amazed me more is how a story can be weaved from the footage shot , without being too contrived or artificial about it , despite relying on composite characters created . What I liked too is the observation on the animal species themselves . While the Polar Bears are more independent and don't hunt in packs , the actions of the Walruses , while they live as a community , do not demonstrate that they'll behave likewise when faced with a predator . Their all " man " for himself attitude do seem quite selfish , especially when a reliance on strength in numbers will probably help . But that's the way the circle of life rolls . While it played out rather straightforwardly , what I thought was a missed opportunity was the very superficial glean on probably an important message these days - climate change , for the worse . With the rising temperatures , the polar caps are melting and shrinking , posing a direct challenge to the animals ' habitat and a threat to their survival . The white , snow covered land mass they are living on , are slowly disappearing , and living off a grassland covered rock , doesn't seem to cut it , at least , not for the Polar Bears . Arctic Tale presents the effect of this change , but doesn't address the climate concerns . Perhaps that's best left as a topic in itself . As far as Arctic Tale is concerned , it has presented and preserved , the way of life of the Polar Bears and Walruses . While not as compelling a story as March of the Penguins , it does serve its purpose , but nothing more . If compared , this one rates a notch lower .
A Nutshell Review : The Beat That My Heart Skipped	I think Thomas Seyr ( Romain Duris ) could be any of us in the working class . Stuck in two worlds about what he really wants to do , versus what he has to do . In the shady corner of the real estate business relying on underhand tactics , he finds no joy . In the other world which presented itself as an opportunity to start again , he must upgrade in order to be accepted . It never is easy , then again , life never is to begin with . Constantly frustrated at his predicament , you begin to wonder towards which characteristics of his parents would he gravitate to - the father , who's about to remarry , and is living the life that Thomas secret disapproves , and that he fears he's subconsciously becoming his father's son , or his deceased mom , an accomplished pianist . Given the chance to dig deep into his potential of following in his mom's footsteps , he thought he could find joy in emulating his mother's success , but success always is the outcome of hard work , and plenty of frustrations along the way . With the help of a Chinese pianist ( played by Linh Dan Pham ) , he sets himself a goal to be ready for an audition to set a new future for himself , and the classical music numbers greatly contrasts with Thomas ' choice of Euro-techno music which he plays over his beautiful earphones , and I enjoyed prior to watching the movie , thanks to a friend who introduced me to Telepopmusik's Just Breathe , which was used . While juggling between real work , and his potential aspiration , things go awry with his love and sex life , when he falls for one of his friend's wife , and when his dad gets mixed up with and swindled by Russian gangsters . I particularly liked the scene where he sought out the Russian Minskov , where he goes about without a clue to try and straighten things out with the mobster , only to have him call and threaten him loudly over the phone , in the sudden presence of a passer-by . And what he did for revenge , was totally comical too , in context . There are moments in this film which painfully brings out themes of frustration , of being lost at a crossroads , and of deciding for oneself what your calling is . Decide for yourself if you're up for some serious fare about the choices presented in life , and about that leap of faith that you take in trying to achieve some of those goals .
A Nutshell Review : Sugar & Spice	Girls are made of sugar and spice and all things nice , but of course there are those laced with wasabi that will hit you when you least expect it to . Based on the novel by Eimi Yamada , Sugar & Spice is not your conventional romantic drama , not that it's because it's not the usual boy - meets - girl - they - hook - up - boy - loses - girl - boy - tries - to - win - girl - back kind of movie , but because it takes a long hard look at a certain condition , and that's the rebound . And perhaps many would have disliked the movie because it touches that raw nerve , either you're the perpetrator , or the victim of . There are limited amount of fan favourite saccharine sweet moments , and instead , lessons dished out were plentiful , which does get try as it tends to nag . Obviously , the movie is hinging on the star appeal of the teenage lovers , Shiro ( Yuya Yagira , who won a Best Actor award from Cannes with his portrayal in Nobody Knows ) , and hot model-actress-musician Erika Sawajiri as Noriko , and therefore perhaps paid little attention to the pacing , which turned out to be erratic , and treading on the route to art-house styled contemplation , longing and scenes of regret . Shiro is a student at the crossroads of his life - whether to enroll in cram school to prepare for higher education , or to follow a small step towards his dream of working with cars . He opts for the latter , and finds himself as a pump attendant at a gas station . Noriko becomes the new apprentice at the station , and needless to say , Shiro gets smitten by the newcomer . But the catch here is that this is Shiro's first stab at a relationship , and while he is brought up to be nice , girls hate wimps , don't they ? And Noriko's no angel either , having just been out of a rocky relationship with a relatively richer guy , and now having to be stuck with Shiro . Every step of the way , you wonder if she's on the rebound , and just grabbing at whoever is conveniently available at the time . Indecisiveness abound , but more often than not , cold hard logic prevails and it boils down to practicality , and materialism . The story finds itself spending quality time with an examination of first love , and the pain that it usually brings , especially when one finds oneself drawing the stick with the shorter end . It's heartbreaking , but the story encourages one to learn from mistakes , and to move on , though it presented this thought quite clumsily . The scene stealer here belongs to Mari Natsuki as the free loving , hippy grandma of Shiro , who drives a hot rod of a vehicle and has a toy boy to boot ( for a 70 year old ! ) . She dispenses advice to both parties , and drawing on her past experiences to do so , teaching her grandson to know when to be a gentleman , and when the time's come to be tough . It serves as a reminder to all those out there who still nurses a broken heart , to cherish those ( previous ) memories , but not to ditch the forest for the tree . While the proceedings seem more bleak throughout , the light at the end of the tunnel provided much needed hope to lift the movie from its dark tones . And the soundtrack just puts a smile to my face too .
A Nutshell Review : Song of the Stork	I wasn't the least surprised to see so few people turn up for this screening . It isn't your regular made-in-Singapore movie , but one which is a first-ever Singapore-Vietnam co-production . It doesn't have recognizable local TV stars in any role , and arguably zero publicity about the movie's background in the regular media in the year that it was made . If I recall correctly , it didn't even have a commercial release here . A movie about war is never easy to make , and one about the Vietnam war not made by the Americans or the French , but a Singaporean media company ? Gee , could it be pulled off ? Cine . SG listed this film as the first international production that has been allowed into Vietnam to shoot a film about the war . Not even Francis Ford Coppola's epic Apocalypse Now was granted permission mind you . So how did it fare ? Much to my surprise and pleasure , the production values are pretty good , though the storyline doesn't have much to rave about . It's pretty straightforward , and played out at times like a pseudo-documentary , with archived footages of the war put into scene fillers . It follows an introduction by a North Vietnamese war correspondent , Tran Van Thuy , and his journeys on the Ho Chi Minh Trail with his fellow comrades . Interspersed with dramatic retelling of the war and happenings in camp , are mini interviews with Tran himself , as well as an American Vietnam War veteran . Yes you read that right . While it's about the Vietnam War , the focus here is on the North Vietnamese soldiers , not the usual glorification of the American / South Vietnam view points . While the South does get featured as well , together with its soldiers , they are largely portrayed as lazy and ineffective , often looking after their own personal interests , as opposed to their adversaries , who are committed to the cause , and willing to sacrifice for the good of their fellow men . Attention to detail is not spared , and I can't help but chuckle on one hand , yet emphatise with soldiers fighting a war given the barest of essentials . Jungle warfare wearing sandals , is no joke . Accompanying the narrative is a hauntingly eerie soundtrack , which fit the movie well , though I won't be one who will listen to it during the dead of the night . The movie can be easily split into two halves , the first which is about Tran and his journeys , and the second takes a more interesting and sympathetic look at the life of an infiltrator in the South , who sets up family and leads a normal life , until the time comes to rise above and aid his fellow men attacking Southwards . Its romantic theme punches through , and probably personified the suffering of families during times of war , when one is often forced to choose between loyalties for country and family . It's an interesting film to watch , especially with the viewpoints scarcely seen in films about the Vietnam war . While the war scenes might be a bit amateurish for today's standards , its themes still ring through and true .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Lone Ranger ( 1956 )	The last time I saw a movie with a Caucasian and a Red Indian partner , was the French movie Brotherhood of the Wolf . Perhaps it's had its origins of such a pairing from The Lone Ranger , or so I'd like to believe . After having spent some time with old martial arts classics , I thought I'd set my sights on the western genre , and what more appropriate than the adventures of the legendary Lone Ranger astride his steed Silver , and his Red Indian sidekick Tonto . For those not in the loop of this character , he's like the daytime vigilante of the Wild Wild West , in his mask concealing his true identity , and loads his guns with silver bullets . The silver bullet also functions as a calling card of sorts , and come to think of it , it's like a friendlier version of Batman , only in a different setting . And with that theme music - William Tell Overture - blaring in the background as they ride into the sunset , it's pure nostalgia . Not hard to imagine that I actually grew up on such stuff . The movie begins by diving right into the story , with our heroes up against some mean and corrupt and greedy cattle ranchers who are after more land , and some bad hats amongst them trying to stir up war with the Native Americans . So it's up to our heroes to expose the truth , and to prevent bloodshed . That pretty much sums up the gist of the plot . Although this is not an origin movie , the beginnings of how the Lone Ranger came about was mentioned in passing - His brother and himself , both Rangers , were ambushed by outlaws and left for dead . But Fate has Tonto rescuing the Ranger , and he decided to use the clothes of his dead brother to make a mask , to stay mysterious , to be feared by the villains he hunted down . The origins of Silver , his mighty loyal steed , is also mentioned , but more to the effect that it was nursed back to health by the Ranger himself . Given that this was made in the 50s , you'd come to expect some very stilted and stiff dialogues , as heroes in those days , are expected to be squeaky clean . You probably can't find a speck of dirt on the Ranger's character , as he embodies everything that is good , with that All American feeling . Called the " trusty scout ' ( Kemo Sabe ) by his Red Indian ally Tonto , the movie also takes a look at the prejudices faced by the Native Americans amongst groups of white men , and the strong partnership between our leads , is testament to the fact that ignorance and the lack of understanding , isn't the way to go . The visual transfer isn't all that great , and it looks like it's VHS based , with little remastering done to remove the cacks and pops . The colours were inconsistent at times , and although it comes in both full screened and wide screened versions on the same disc , it isn't anamorphic . The DVD extras are on a second disc , and has two sections . The first section contains interviews , while the rest goes into " Special Features " . There are two interviews included , and the first is with Michael Ansara , who plays Angry Horse . Interviewed by Michael Druxman ( writer / director of The Doorway 1999 ) , this interview fell short in quality as Ansana wasn't too chatty , and Druxman was chatting most of the time like a fanboy . Nothing much comes out of this interview , although a trivia was shared that the Lone Ranger actually never kills anybody on screen . Running at 17mins and 15 secs , I would recommend going straight for the second interview instead . The second interview has more substantial material discussed , and it's natural given that it's conducted by Leonard Maltin of Entertainment Tonight , with the guest Dawn Moore , daughter of the Lone Ranger himself Clayton Moore . Conducted and recorded on 9 Feb 2001 and clocking in at 39 minutes , it is a heartfelt session with recollection of memories of Clayton Moore , about her childhood and growing up with the legend , many behind the scenes discussion at the production , anecdotes shared that only a child will know , and even talk about Silver the horse . Given her account , you'll be amazed at how hard Clayton Moore actually worked for the character , in character , in publicity that the company wanted him to do . This is a gem that all fans should give a listen to . The Special Features section contains the following , though nothing in particular stands out : a . Text biographies of main cast and director Stuart Heisler b . A photo gallery with colour and black and white movie stills c . Trailers for The Lone Ranger , The Lone Ranger and the Lost City of Gold , and trailers for two non Lone Ranger , but Western , films - Ride in the Whirlwind and The Shooting ( both starring Jack Nicholson ) d . A text writeup on The Lone Ranger Creed , which is also available on the insert .
A Nutshell Review : Pride and Glory	I wonder if a film like this could be made here at all . Not that you can't do it on the cheap , because it's literally sans explosions and action sequences that calls for things to be wrecked or shoot em ups in built up areas , and all you need are charismatic actors to bring the plot to live , but one with the story of having corrupt cops within the force ? And it's not just a make - believe force , but one that says NYPD on its sleeves . Yes , there are disclaimers put out immediately when the end credits roll that it's a work of fiction , and the movie originally planned on being made in 2002 , which for obvious reasons of not wanting to taint ( if for the lack of a better word ) the NYPD at the time of a heightened threat environment . But I suppose our film industry probably is not mature enough , or if permission will be given if at all , for our own force to be used as a more realistic backdrop for a moral ( or there lackof ) story such as Pride and Glory . It's a cop drama about a family of cops who get embroiled in a scandal , and having their morality put to the sword . Beginning with the murder of four officers under the charge of the CO Francis Tierney Jr ( Noah Emmerich ) , dad Francis Sr ( Jon Voight ) gets adamant that his best son Ray ( Edward Norton ) join the task force to weed out the cop killer . But slowly Ray begins to discover a link back to his cop brother in law Jimmy ( Colin Farrell ) , and the rabbit hole goes down a lot further with possible involvement back to his own family , together with opening up a Pandora's Box that implicates almost everyone in the precinct . Unfortunately this is not an investigative drama per se , because like Confession of Pain , it decides to show all its hand 30 minutes into the movie , and you'll know who are those responsible , together with who is indirectly guilty within the force . The only thing left is the extent of their involvement , but there becomes rather rudimentary . Everyone in the story have varying shades of grey , and nobody is squeaky clean , even for Ray as he demonstrates some unorthodox investigative techniques involving promises to his informants . And most of the supporting cop characters do seem a little surreal when you observe how they can get away with the blatant corruption that they engage in . While it slowly builds upon the story despite its revelation midway , the finale becomes something of a letdown because of its convenient way of wrapping everything up , and gets marred by some out of place fisticuffs which seem to draw some laughter rather than its intended gentleman's way of getting things resolved sans weapons . Also , there was a sub plot involving an investigative journalist which gets introduced in the third act , and then junked unceremoniously , rather than allowing this sub plot develop through . Pride and Glory boasts a stellar cast with powerful performances , from Jon Voight's dad who wants Ray to cover up as much as he can so as to protect his eldest son and not let their family legacy get tainted by a scandal which they can spin it to their advantage . I thought Noah Emmerich is slowly becoming quite a strong character actor , despite his rather low key presence and screen time in the movie . Edward Norton is typical in his flawless delivery , this time wearing a physical scar to represent an emotional wound which his character carries , a reminder of how he's now faced with the same unfair odds of having to shoulder some blame and spin facts to everyone's advantage . Colin Farrell though returns to his bad boy roots with some scenes that will enrage you toward his Jimmy character , where money talks and power rocks , and being the in-law , you'll feel his fear of being sidelined should the adage of blood running thicker than water come true . I thought he stole some of the other actors ' thunder each time he comes on screen to light it up with corrupt intensity , given that Norton's Ray does a disappearing act from time to time . It's standard fare , and without any element that will make you sit up and go wow . That doesn't mean that it's a bad film , but lacked that particular x-factor in making it memorable . It wanted to tread in the murky waters of the questioning of morals , but in the end doesn't address it head on and felt a bit of a let down . Even the superb performances by the actors fail to lift this beyond mediocre , and I guess it's still the story that counts first .
A Nutshell Review : 4 : 30	Audiences aware of Royston Tan's works , will almost always recall his controversial shorts like 15 and Cut . Full of colour and packed with fascinating visuals , his short films have so far been anything but a silent movie , and everything like song , dance and music , have found their way as a signature . All these bells and whistles take a backseat in 4 : 30 , a quiet film save for some lines of dialogue . The closing film of this year's Singapore International Film Festival where it played to a sell out crowd , the first thing that comes to mind is , is this a Singapore movie ? With a style so commonly found in art-house films , you'll probably be amazed that we do have someone here capable of crafting a contemplative movie immersed so richly in green hues . A previous short film closest to the mood and visuals to 4 : 30 would be Sons ( you must check it out ! ) In the still of the night which is 4 : 30 am , a little boy Xiao Wu , wakes up almost religiously each day to spy on a Korean tenant of his family apartment . A latch key , lonely boy , he finds joy in crafting a virtual relationship with the man Jung , a foreigner with an agenda here , a friend he cannot communicate directly with given barriers like language and his non presence during the day . But of course that's just one , obvious layer of the movie . With clues and markers peppered throughout the movie , you'd be compelled to wonder if what is unveiled on screen , can be taken as a matter of fact . There is obviously no regular school in December , the boy's abuse of cough mixture a worrying phenomenon but one which suggests something of a dreamlike bizarreness , and a tinge of homo-erotic sentiments . These markers will tickle your mind as you try and sieve figments of imagination , from screen reality . The many silent moments give your mind plenty of workout time , sometimes into overdrive . There are plenty of Royston touches to this beautifully shot film , like his preference for all things old - like the Telecoms push button telephone ( in green no less ) , the cloth wardrobe , and the facade of the Look Clinic . The main lead Xiao Li Yuan who plays Xiao Wu , is effectively bilingual , and quite believable in his role as the lonely kid yearning for some serious attention which he is not getting from his parents , lending to his frequent disruption of a neighbourhood tai-chi session , to his fixation and stalker-like behaviour towards Jung . Whatever your interpretation of the events that transpire , ultimately , it's quite a sad movie , of unrequited " love " and friendship , about the road of loneliness . It's an engaging character piece , and of the ties that bind . p . s . 4 : 30 is now showing in 3 theatres , with limited schedules . If you really want to check out how different this movie is from his previous ( short ) works , or if you dig Kim Ki-duk's stuff , then waste no time ya ? The afternoon weekend screening I went to , only had 5 folks including myself . Once you're done with Supes , give the lonely kid some love : - )
A Nutshell Review : The Black Dahlia	There are a couple of reasons why I wanted to watch The Black Dahlia . First , the trailer was slick , and the strangely hypnotic song used in the trailer , Dirge - by Death in Vegas , actually had this enthralling sublime message which to me was " watch this " . Next , it's a police noir set in the 40s Hollywood . Movies set during that era and at that location appeal to me too , as will Hollywoodland . And last but not least , it stars Scarlett Johansson , sexiest woman alive if Esquire Magazine is to be believed ( and I actually agree ) . However , The Black Dahlia , opening movie for this year's 63rd Venice Film Festival , was anything like what the trailer suggested in terms of the story . While the trailer made it look like a major investigative piece into the horrific murder of an actress , and the cops being made to run circles to get the culprit , that portion of the movie , though integral to the whole scheme of things and is the core , actually becomes secondary , and the whole movie was moving in and around everything else , until put right towards the end . There are many subplots shooting from everywhere involving families , real estates , hoodlums , lust , greed , corruption , and even boxing ( ! ) which steal your attention away from the crux , and with the hydra of unsolved mysteries just building up with no end in sight , it just becomes increasing frustrating as the movie progresses with all these unanswered questions and disparate scenes , until they all come together toward the end . It really calls for one's patience and undivided attention to watch this . But is it all worthwhile ? Yes , but the ride's excruciatingly painful , with the payout probably just barely adequate for some . The sets and costumes were wonderful , and being set in post WWII Los Angeles , The Black Dahlia is loosely based on James Ellroy's book , which is turn is based on the true story of the murder of an aspiring actress called Elizabeth Short . Two detectives partners , Leland Blanchard ( Aaron Eckhart ) and Dwight Bleichert ( Josh Harnett ) , nicknamed Fire and Ice ( in an incredibly long introductory scene involving boxing ) find themselves involved in a murder case involving a mutilated body of a woman . While Blanchard becomes obsessed with solving the murder , Bleichert finds himself drawn towards a mystery woman encountered during investigations , a certain Madeleine Linscott ( Academy Award winner Hilary Swank ) , and also towards Blanchard's girl Kay Lake , played by Scarlett Johansson . I'm not about to explain or touch on the dozen or so sub plots and characters involved in the story . However , Johansson's screen time is severely limited , so fans will probably have to get their fix in the other movies showing in town , with the modern day Scoop , or the upcoming The Prestige set in Victorian England . The 40s Hollywood setting here allows opportunity for Johansson to be illuminated on screen in soft focus , and she does look like a star from the yesteryears , with that hairdo adopted . I last seen Aaron Eckhart in Thank You for Smoking , and I thought it was a decent role he took on here as the slowing - degenerating - into - unpredictability cop of a partner to have . Clearly the lead belonged to Josh Harnett , whom I thought did a voice-over in Sin City as well as Lucky Number Sle7in . I won't be surprised if he corners that voice over / dubbing role , as his voice does give that soothing quality to make you sit up and listen to what he has to say . It's quite understandable that this movie will warrant some low ratings , given its at times shoddy delivery leaving much wanting . I actually thought director Brian De Palma could do better , given that he's helmed classics like The Untouchables , Scarface and Mission : Impossible ( which I liked ) , though there are the duds like Femme Fatale and The Bonfire of the Vanities which he conjured as well . There was one scene though which I thought was fairly neat , like his one-continuous camera-motion in Snake Eyes , replicated here with a sequence involving an introductory house visit . While The Black Dahlia is faulted for Brian De Palma's delivery , it tells a compelling enough story , with unflinching violence and uncut sexual situations involving lesbianism and suggested incest , in an unedited M18 rating . Just remember to be patient for the payoff at the end , and lookout for KD Lang !
A Nutshell Review : The Longest Yard	The Longest Yard is one of many remake movies that Hollywood has churned out in recent years . Others did well , like Charlie's Angels , while some fumbled , like Bewitched . This Adam Sandler movie , helm-ed by director Peter Segal ( who also worked on Sandler's Fifty First Dates ) , managed to keep afresh the already familiar material . It was a perky ( heh ) start to the movie , with No Doubt's ( and of course Gwen Stefani's vocals ) starting the movie , keeping in mind that MTV Films also had a hand in this , it isn't surprising that the audience will be treated to various pop , rock and hip hop music . Sandler plays Paul Crewe , a forgotten , down and out quarterback infamous for throwing in the towel and rigging a game . He's sick of life with his control freak fiancée ( did Courteney Cox undergo a boob job ? ) , and got arrested for dangerous drink driving when she reported he stole her Bentley . Well , we have to thrown our protagonist into prison to get the game going , right ? Unfortunately for Crewe , the prison guards are a bunch of sadists , and fortunately ( depending on how you look at it ) the warden is a football fanatic , who propositions Crewe to set up a team amongst the prisoners for his guards to have a practice tune up match against . Most of the movie then dwelled on recruitment and training , as with all sports movies , the recruits are all misfits , which is supposed to provide some comedic moments . Scenes in which Crewe handpicks prisoners according to their traits ( aggression , speed etc ) were formulaic , but extremely fun . An addition to the fold is actor Chris Rock as Caretaker , the man with links on the inside and outside ; the resident smuggler . As with all remake movies , there should be the complimentary actor from the earlier film , and here we have two , the more recognizable one being Burt Reynolds as the coach , who played the protagonist in the original . It's kind of ironic that in prison films , the line between " good and evil " are somewhat blurred , with good characters having improper morals , and the bad characters turning out to be likable underdogs . For all its funny set pieces , the humour seemed somewhat subdued , not overly slapstick , or worse , feeling forced . You know what's coming , but the delivery was enough to at least make you smile . What crowned the filmed was the football game at the end . Shot wonderfully with the right moments to break into slow-motion or high speed action , it managed to convey the contact sport accurately , and with excitement thrown into the mix . You will really be rooting for the Mean Machines , as do the transgender inmate cheerleaders and Rob Schneider . But the main theme was on obtaining , losing , and maintaining Respect , and the exploration of camaraderie amongst the boys in the hood . Standing out , in a somewhat cringeworthy manner at times , was when Crewe persuades a bunch of basketball playing inmates to join his team , as do some parts in the end game . This movie should appeal to the fans of sports films , one filled with plenty of physical contact , moments of humour , and a predictable finale ( which of course is known to those who watched the original ) .
A Nutshell Review : Tongan Ninja	Watching Tongan Ninja is like watching a movie so deliberately bad , it's good ! Which is not surprising , given that the creative brains of Jemaine Clement and Bret McKenzie behind Flight of the Conchords , had a hand in crafting the zany scenes , crazy dialogue and mind - boggling tongue in cheek action sequences . It's like watching a kid's cartoon come alive , though it comes with a tinge of unexpected violence as well to make it more adult . The basic structure follows that of Bruce Lee's Way / Return of the Dragon , where a martial arts practitioner get sent to protect a restaurant from thugs who come asking for protection money . Sam Manu plays Sione Finau aka Tongan Ninja the titular character , whose tragic background of his father being killed by a fish haunts him into adulthood . Growing up in a Pacific island where he learns his ninja skills , he gets sent by his master to New Zealand to help a friend in need , represented by Miss Lee ( Linda Tseng ) whom he falls in love with . You know it's gonna be mindless fun with slapstick humour when the villains are caricatures such as Kinfe Man , Gun Man and his arch-nemesis Action Man ( played by Jemaine Clement himself ) with whom is under the same ninja tutelage . The fights don't take themselves seriously , as it really hammed up every cliché you can find in bad action movies . From funny character names to funny action moves coupled with cheesily bad special effects , everyone's acting is really over the top , and therein lies the fun factor when watching the movie , complete with spaghetti western styled dialogue and dubbed voices that are never in sync . What also worked here are the zany song and dance sequences , which acted as a precursor of the later collaboration between Clement and McKenzie . In fact , if you pay attention to the lyrics that are sung during these sequences , that's half the fun already as you're likely to have been chuckling along . So don't expect quality production values with polished acting . You can tell these folks had a lot of fun spoofing the genre and probably had a great time on set , and this shows up in the product in all honesty . It doesn't bite off more than it can chew , and provides for some really enjoyable entertainment .
A Nutshell Review : Drillbit Taylor	I think it's obvious to note by now that Team Apatow is on a roll in recent years with their brand of comedy , which is probably a much needed injection , personally , to the genre after Mike Myers left us hanging when he delivered his Goldmember . Out and out comedies of late have been touching on the usual material like teenage sexcapades and loads of deliberate spoofs of pop culture and movie genres , which Apatow and team also dabbles in , but somehow it hinged on the simple things that mattered , such as the timing of punchlines . In most parts , Drillbit Taylor seemed like Superbad all over again , right down to the characters that inhabit the movie . You have the usual nerds in trouble , and more so , with a Laurel and Hardy style in pairing someone chubby with a motor-mouth , and the skinny , silent type . Coming from well-to-do families , good friends Ryan ( Troy Gentile ) and Wade ( Nate Hartley ) are into their first day of high school , where given their nerdy behaviour , are instant fodder for the resident school bullies . Despite the refreshing unknowns having the meatier and more interesting roles , Owen Wilson stars as the titular character , a homeless and aimless drifter who showers at public baths and makes money from asking for donations on the streets . In fact , Owen Wilson is just being , Owen Wilson , with all the smart wisecracks spewed when imparting self-defense knowledge to his employers , the children , in a bid to not give them the fish , but to teach them to fish , i . e . defend themselves from bullies . Naturally he's no black ops person , and there's little wonder how his methods turn out to be backfiring most of the time . Which is in fact a pity . There are some genuinely funny moments , but these stem from scenes where Wilson was not a part of , because his story got entrenched into some romance with impossibility looming over the horizon , But the funnier scenes are also mostly a throwback to similar material already experienced in Superbad , minus the sexually implicit / explicit scenes of course , with the banter between Ryan and Wade , and the little snarky comments that Ryan makes , which you probably have to pay attention to as they come quite fast and furious . Other than that , Drillbit Taylor is pretty formulaic in how the story develops and concludes , which is an exercise in the value and treasuring of friendship , camaraderie , and having some backbone to stand up to those who have an inkling of stepping all over you . Oh , and Owen Wilson's nose really was quite prominently crooked in the movie , I can't help but to gawk at it !
A Nutshell Review : The Missing Star	Based upon the novel The Dismissal by Ermanno Rea , in essence the story's about the slow friendship that develops between an Italian maintenance technician Vincenzo Buonavolonta ( Sergio Castellitto , who can be seen as the villainous King in Prince Caspian , and was the lead in Bella Martha ) and a Chinese translator Liu Hua ( Ling Tai ) . They set off actually on the wrong foot , with the former chastising the latter for her inaccurate , and slow translations of what he wanted to tell a Chinese delegate who had bought equipment that is faulty . Vincenzo wants to do the right thing , which is rare in these days , and that is to tell the prospective buyers upfront the faults as well as the intricacies that their purchase would bring , and given that he's disturbed by the fact that the deal still went ahead , he takes time off to craft a component that would set things right . But that also means to travel to China in search of the elusive machine , which proves to be well hidden , and seemingly having vanished without a trace . With the initial reluctant help of Liu Hua , they set off in this treasure hunt from city to city , which brings us to lesser seen sights of China , away from the Beijings and the Shanghais , to cities like Wuhan , with industrial like backdrops such as steel mills and nuclear plants with their smoke stacks dotting the scenery . The mighty Yangtze River also makes an appearance . Along the way , the usual trappings of such travelogue styled movies come into play , such as the learning of culture , ideals , food , and basically , the understanding that the world is without strangers , if only one makes an effort to try and connect . While hints of some romance between the two leads are suggested , it rarely made itself to be a moot point , until perhaps late in the movie ( hey , opposites attract , no ? ) Besides the major industrial plants and factories , We get to see various cottage industry , like seamstresses working in sweat shop like environments , and I believe Cotton too , along with noodle making . As a film , it provided me the travelling opportunity without leaving my seat to observe , and credit to it for not passing judgement from a moral high ground on exploitation and the likes . And kudos too for the movie to engage in dialogue based on the characters ' native tongues , rather than ( and I shall not name names here ) some other movie / cross-cultural collaborations where dialogue is forced-dubbed and came off unnatural , and truly irksome . Some might deem the supporting characters to be too kind too , always opening their arms and doors to a foreigner , but I would like to imagine that maybe in the more rural areas , people in general tend to be more sincere , friendly and basically not get caught up in the rat race to trample on others , or be trampled upon . If there's a message to take away from the movie , besides the fact that I mentioned that the world is without strangers , is a reminder to myself that some of the stuff I deem important , may not be so to others . Importance is something one places upon something else , and its basis really depends on how we define the boundaries we set . So given our finite lifetime , I think I should lighten up a bit more , live and let live , and sometimes bask in the illusion that ignorance could be bliss .
A Nutshell Review : Space Chimps	I'm going to admit that I've enjoyed Space Chimps . No , I've not gone bananas , but there's something beautiful to this goofy animated comedy that appealed , perhaps in its simplicity and its not attempting to try and be more than it cannot be . Ham III ( voiced by Andy Samberg ) . a circus monkey whose the key to the " monkey cannonball " act , happens to be the descendant of its decorated ancestor Ham I , the first monkey to have entered outer space . As NASA does send animals early in their history of missions to perform certain tests , and more so as guinea pigs , their current space programme is under threat of being axed , unless of course the scientists can all prove their worth . Just so happens that a space probe gets send to the opposite side of a wormhole , that it presents an opportunity to send a crack team of animals to the other side as well to test waters , hence the assembly of our merry animals . You have Ham III , the reluctant astronaut put into the team for some PR purpose , who joins the usual caricatures of team captain and beefcake Titan , as well as beautiful Luna , who provides the brains for the mission and cursory love interest for our protagonist chimp . On the ground , besides the wacky human scientists who always deny their nerd status , you have Comet and Houston , fellow chimps who provide ground expertise to our crew's mission in space . Truth is , and a departure in animated movies of late , this one is sans big name stars or voice talent , and doesn't detract you away from the story , nor have one talent steal the thunder from the rest . Like a well oiled space mission , Space Chimps is and plays out like a consolidated team effort . The adversary they face are a group of silly aliens under the control of Zartog , who consolidated his power no thanks to the human space probe by hitting the manual override button , as well as various environmental challenges reminiscent of the latest Journey to the Center of the Earth , and provides ample opportunity for some pretty wacky characters , with set action pieces like swinging from vine to vine , making more sense here when compared to that in The Crystal Skull . The graphics here are kept simple and uncomplicated . It's easy to find fault with so many things in this movie , given the likes of Pixar which has set the benchmark , but as I've said , I'm not looking for too much , and the simplicity of it all in Space Chimps makes it a refreshing breath of fresh air . The story at times might find itself hard pressed to throw in some wisecracks on pop culture , but there are indeed moments to have it in the movie so subtly , you'll probably blink and you miss it . If you're willing to leave your 1 % intellect at the door , perhaps you may just enjoy this movie about primates that exhibit similar emotions and attributes to our own .
A Nutshell Review : Mistress of Spices	The number one appeal that this film had for me , is to see Aishwarya Rai in action . I've never seen the movies of Miss World ' 94 , and missed out on Bride and Prejudice . Written by the same team , Mistress of Spices is a mythical tale which makes the Indian spices the star of the movie , set in a medicinal store , with Rai as the conjurer and mixer of modern day " bomoh " like medicine to cure mankind of their ills . Some might not like the way the movie presented itself , with its cheesy focus and voice-over on the qualities of the various spices . Granted , it's like going to your medicinal hall , or clinic , and doing a closeup feature on the medicines and roots , characterizing them . And with the obvious red chili being the signal of danger , it's a tad simplistic . However , the way that the spices are shot , made them look beautiful in their sacks or glass bottles . Hidden behind these herbs is the mistress Tilo ( Rai , meaning sesame seed ) , whose precognitive powers are granted to her by the spices . OK , so I had a corny joke running each time Tilo asked the spices to speak to her - isn't she doing a Muad'Dib thingy like Dune's Paul Atreides ? Anyway besides the mistress helping her customers with their daily troubles by selling them wonderfully nice sounding concoctions , in comes Dylan McDermott's Doug . Better known for his leading role in the television series The Practice , he's the man unknowingly seducing Tilo from her mission in life . You see , being a mistress has its rules , and they are to never let another skin touch yours ( ooh , touchy ) , to never step out of the shop ( that's pretty restrictive and a possible loop hole ) and not to concoct anything for one's own benefit . So while trying her best to stay away from the good looking man , the movie spins into a tale of forbidden love , with punishment meted out by the powers that be dwelling within those spices - I tell you , they're quite vengeful . And as if it couldn't decide , there's an underlying reminder for Indians based overseas about never forgetting their roots and culture , to never fall for the enticing decadent lifestyle of the foreigners . But screw all that , the real star of the show is Rai . I'm already smitten by her huge twin green-blue expressive eyes with lives of their own . You could just focus on them , and they could tell you a story already . And yes , that chili-red sari , is uber hot ! Guess my to-watch movies is piling up already , with Bollywood added to the list . Rai fans probably won't want to miss this , despite the movie's relatively weak and fluffy plot .
A Nutshell Review : The Strangers	So when Underworld co-star Kate Beckinsale got to make a horror / thriller with Vacancy while waiting for the green light on a possible Underworld pre / sequel , Scott Speedman too had to do something equivalent , and so got himself signed up with The Strangers , written and directed by Bryan Bertino , which takes a fictional look at what it purports to be based on true events with regards to the senseless acts of violence committed against James Hoyt ( Speedman ) and Kristen McKay ( Liv Tyler ) . Whether it be real or not , it takes its time to tell you that more than 1 . 4 million violent crimes happen on average in the USA , which of course works out to be . . . hell a lot . And it puts this at the back of your mind that it could happen to just about anyone , which after watching the movie , you'd more or less agree , given its less than sophisticated means of attack . Ss with all horror movies coming out of Tinseltown these days , it's the usual in-your-face slasher flicks / torture porn that get made , going one up against each other through being creative with weapons , blood and gore . Here it kept things simple , using common household tools against you . It's a movie without a lot of dialog between the characters , given that the assailants do not speak with one another , or lapse into the usual monologue with their victims . They do what they need to do quickly when the time calls for it , otherwise their theatrics allow the filmmakers to max out the surround sound system in the theatre with plenty of running about , throwing of stuff against doors / windows , together with testing out their light and shadow play thoroughly . And technically , you've got to tip your hat towards its flawless execution ( pardon the pun ) . The backstory to the characters of Kristen and James show us that while they are a loving couple , James ' premature proposal to Kristen , and her rejection , put them in an awkward situation where he had plenty of yes-I-do aftermath activities planned out , such as a night at his parent's summer home , and a road trip thereafter , all thrown into disarray . They still reach that home away from home , but are not really communicating with each other . And with observed weakness comes opportunity for the perpetrators to complete their surveillance , and launch their systematic attack . Which for the first hour , it almost became the Liv Tyler show , as she single-handedly holds your attention with her frantic looks and powerful lungs , while trying to wish it all away as a bad dream . Bryan Bertino succeeds in driving through the tension and fear of having unknown strangers in an unfamiliar home , and at 4am in the morning with their constant knocking and mischievous , deadly pranks , can really take its toil on you . There are loopholes of course in this story , such as failure to hold ground , and to never , ever split up , but I guess these folks never learn from the many horror movies that preceded it . So when it went into its final 20 odd minutes , you can sense a feeling of dread , both for the characters , and the rather repetitive run-hide-seek continuum . Like Michael Haneke's Funny Games , there never is a rationale shared with the audience even though they continuously dish out violence , and while Haneke's villains were rather chatty , the ones here never bother to talk any more than they should , and coupled with their childish masks , make them a bit more terrifying when they come out of the dark . Not a masterpiece , and surely less intellectual than Funny Games , but definitely has its moments , and managed to send some chills down unsuspecting spines , like that row of punks sitting on the same row as me and actually squirmed at their seats .
A Nutshell Review : Shrek the Third	It has just been the start of the summer season , and the sequels are raking in the millions , despite lacklustre reviews no doubt stemming from familiarity and expectations built from successes of the predecessor films . Still , they are raking in the millions , and possibly the largest franchises in recent years converge onto 2007 as they feature their third movies , and leaving the door open for possibly more to come . Spidey 3 had too many characters , as did Pirates 3 , as they both seek to expand the fantasy world they belong to , which to some worked against their favour as it meant less screen time for some beloved characters . And we welcome back our favourite giant green ogre Shrek , who in its third installment , expands its mythology as well with the introduction of various characters from the Camelot tale , most notably those of Lancelot , Genevieve , Merlin and of course , Arthur himself . As we last left out heroes , Shrek ( Mike Myers ) and Fiona ( Cameron Diaz ) are back to living with royalty in the kingdom of Far Far Away , now with pals Puss in Boots ( Antonio Banderas ) and Donkey ( Eddie Murphy ) and family . Now if that's a handful , wait till the story moves forward with Shrek and the faithful buddies going on a mission to seek out an heir to the throne , Artie / Arthur ( Justin Timberlake ) , who certainly doesn't bring the sexy back to the crown , and you must watch this as once again the filmmakers turn on their creativity and cunningness to develop a character ( and other characters ) in ways you'd never expect them to behave . Which is what most audiences would have enjoyed with the previous films , though this time round , there seemed to be a line drawn on the ground not to overdo the references to pop culture , sight gags and rounds of puns . And the villainous Prince Charming is back , with ambitions to be King Charming , and here's where the story fell a bit short , as it adapted from the other animated movie Happily N'ever After , where the bad guys who always seem to have their luck run out , group together and forcefully take over the kingdom . It's a pity the majority aren't memorable , given that we're already so familiar with the good guys , and they just fail to add more colour , instead it became repetitive with Charming's narcissistic behaviour . Boring . But there are good moments in the movie though , and I can't get enough of those princess types in Snow White , Sleeping Beauty and Cinderella . Despite its expanded cast , the story still managed to put focus on our main trio of Shrek , Donkey and Puss in Boots , at the expense of Fiona who becomes more of a side with her anxious maternal instincts kicking in . The story did feel at times to drag along , especially with Shrek playing surrogate father of sorts , and its trying real hard in attempts to weave in some feel good , moral messages , slowing down the pace , and at one point , tried to go back to its zany ways with some inane happenings , as if a sudden jolt of a reminder not to bore with preachy stuff . Perhaps Shrek 3 might have lost some of its charm , but it definitely is miles ahead of the poorly animated Legend of the Sea . It's a no brainer which animated movie to watch this school holidays .
A Nutshell Review : Ghost Variety	Directed veteran Thai director Adirek " Uncle " Watleela , Ghost Variety is a crazy horror comedy , well actually , more comedy than filled with horrific moments . It starts off quite aptly , in a remote village where a horror movie is being screened , and introduces the audience to a few of the usual ghosts and goblins , until we realize it's all a figment of the imagination . And there's plenty from where that came from , with scenes cutting in and out from screen reality and fantasy . Basically , it's about the story of a down and out filmmaker called Tom , played by familiar face Petchtai Wongkamiao , who starred in Tony Jaa vehicles Ong Bak and Tom Yum Goong for comedic effect , and recently seen in Chai Lai Angels . Here , his character Tom is developing a script , but keeps getting turned away as he's told only horror movies make money . It's a subtle jab at the film industry in general , with the constant reminder that what matters is something that can churn out bread and butter , and not for quality's sake . Surprisingly , this movie had a lot of Thai filmmakers and industry players making cameo appearances in spoofs of themselves , and I suppose to fans of Thai cinema , it'll be a hoot just to identify all of them ( kinda lost with me and the audience during my screening ) . So Tom had no choice but to bury his artistic tendency and with the need for funds for his next film , he had to succumb and stoop to making a variety show for television , based on what else , ghosts . Bringing together a motley crew of relative cowards - in his two lead presenters Tik The Star ( of his short films ) , played by Charnnarong Khanteethao , an upcoming singing supersensation The SuperNext ( Boriboon Janruang ) , and a beautiful production assistant Paew ( Pitchanart Sakakorn , who starred in two other movies I watched earlier this year , in one of the segments in the awfully bad movie Black Night , and Promise Me Not during this year's SIFF ) , they scour Thailand to seek out the truths behind some urban legends . Basically there are a few cheap scares in what seemed to be only 2 extended scenes - a haunted house sequence which brings more laughter than scares , and a haunted village sequence which seemed more Sci-Fi than horror . Other than that , the movie turned out to be quite directionless as it flits from scene to scene , and towards the end , it leaves the audience quite bewildered because there are just too many schizophrenic endings , which might just leave one frustrated if you're looking for a clean-cut storyline and resolution . However , the strength in this movie is on the comedy , and in merging horror into it , it plays along with the general consensus that yes , horror films do sell . And what more by having a little fun while at it ?
A Nutshell Review : Wonderful Days	When science fiction-fantasy animation comes to mind , no doubt you'll look towards the land of the rising sun for definitive versions of the genre , and there are plenty of quality material to choose from , given the wealth of material and works by animators and filmmakers alike . Wonderful Days will mark my first Korean movie in this genre that deals with ailing worlds and its fair share of mecha-like vehicles to tickle the visual senses with its eye for detail . Visually , the movie is stunning , especially when it combines 2D animation with a 3D world built from realistic models to give it visual depth , and spruced up with computer graphics . As mentioned , attention to detail is remarkable , and the fight sequences , even though the characters aren't using any fancy weapons , with very ordinary looking handguns as weapons of choice , they manage to thrill with its three-dimensionality and sheer energy that got translated seamlessly for the screen , and I can only imagine watching this on the big screen , where I will likely duck from objects being thrown about . Impressive set action pieces that glue the movie together , but the story fell a bit short , as anime fans will likely be a little bit bored with the same-old storyline involving oppressive societies , exploitation of the weak masses , the arrival of a messiah to put things right , a love triangle , and something which I thought was topical for today , that of pollution . In the year 2142 , the world is destroyed by an ecological disaster , and the remaining few of humankind live in an outpost known as the Ecoban , which curiously enough , pollutes the environment outside more as it maintains survivability inside . The story felt a little bit like Vexille as well ( along with a lot more other anime of this genre ) , with the rebels trying to infiltrate the Delcos system to stop further annihilation of slaves and their land in order to keep Ecoban running , and this brings our heroine Jay to come into contact with brooding ex-Ecoban colleague turned rebel Shua , You'd come to be one step ahead along the way as you slowly learn of their respective back stories , and just when you thought you could forgive its many plot elements which got introduced sans explanation , and bear with the characters for a bit , then came the operatic tragedy of a finale which somehow took away a lot of its shine , and dragged on so much that it's easy to condemn the movie thereafter with its clumsy dealing of the caricature-like antagonists , despite its superb animation . But there's a saving grace . Ever since The Fountain , I haven't been able to be swayed that much by a movie's score , until now . The Wonderful Days soundtrack just carries the movie on its own , never mind the relatively weak plot , which received a tremendous boost by the emotive tracks that spoke volumes . In particular , I enjoyed the track " A Prayer " , which surprisingly was in English and played at apt moments in the movie , and especially " Mars Theme " , even though tracks of such nature are likely necessary to provide that additional emotional oomph which it delivered more than proportionately to the story .
A Nutshell Review : TalkingCock the Movie	After watching a special surprise screening of Singapore Dreaming for a test audience , a local movie which I find as the best for this year thus far , I was curious to find out about directors Woo Yen Yen and Colin Goh's earlier effort , TalkingCock the Movie . Not that I never heard of it , since I'm a regular reader of their # 1 satire website TalkingCock , but somehow I didn't manage to catch it in the theaters back then . Thankfully , Cine . SG provided an opportunity to do so now , in its original cut some more . Though I could understand the rawness of the movie in terms of production , editing , etc , but it was really a crazy , crazy comedy , leaving no stones unturned . The opening alone , starring Colin himself as Mr Censor , is worth the price of an admission ticket . Poking fun at you - know-what , I believe this was even before Royston Tan did his Cut . And in true Singaporean TalkCock style was this movie filmed , in various languages and dialects ( Singlish too , hooray ! ) , poking fun from everything starting right at the beginning of local history when Sir Stamford Raffles ( Neil Humphreys ) tried to select a name for this once swampy place . In fact , this movie is truly Singaporean , with a multi-racial cast given individual segments to address issues , poke fun and laugh at themselves . You have the eAhLong ( Chinese ) , a Bollywood inspired mini musical with its lead having a penchant to swear in Hokkien , and a Malay-majority Mat Rocker band . Comprising of various segments , I certainly had clear favorites , like the Turbanator and Hoot U ( niversity ) pieces . . . KUA SIMI ! ! ! While some segments worked with laugh a minute moments , others did not . For example , the China-girl episode leaned more towards a dramatic piece rather than a crazy comedic episode , and ended quite flatly too . So did the eAhLong segment , which somehow dragged a bit towards the ending . But I must salute the way each segment introduced the other , each time differently , with various transition techniques used . The dialog were authentically Singlish - don't shy OK ? Cos that's the way most of us speak during our cock talking sessions , and the witty names of characters which are a hallmark of the website , made it to the movie as well . Some filler characters were used to run through the entire movie , like the lecherous Ah Pek with his umbrella , and the va-va-vrrooooom chick with incredibly long armpit hair . Eeewwww . And hey , don't forget the many songs used ( in all languages ) , and the jab at product placement , with the Auntie Auntie conglomerate marketing absolutely everything useful ( and of course useless ) in the show ! If you're looking for authentic local comedy , go no further than to start with TalkingCock . No regrets , bruddah ! ! !
A Nutshell Review : The Wackness	One of the films that have gotten the " festival rating " for a one-off screening , it's easy to see why The Wackness would not have normally passed the censors who are likely to say No for the heavy drug use throughout the film , as is the language , and perhaps one line that might have gravely , though implied and indirectly insulted a religious figure too . After all , it's set in 1994 New York City , and has a teenage drug peddler being the central figure in which the story unfolds around . In this coming-of-age film written and directed by Jonathan Levine ( who gave us Mandy Lane ) , Josh Peck stars as Luke Shapiro , a drug dealer who distributes his stash through an ingenious method of pretending to sell " fesh and delcious ice " around his neighbourhood . We learn that he's a little " wack " , and nobody could blame him , coming from a home where his parents bicker everyday , , and facing the possibility of being evicted from their apartment too . With the world on his shoulders and his wait to graduate into college , he seeks help from psychotherapist Dr . Jeffrey Squires , played by Ben Kingsley . It's a very strange relationship that these two have forged . For starters , they are doctor and patient , and because of Squires ' willingness to accept payment in drugs to feed his addiction , they become businessman and client . And from their hanging out with each other , they too become friends outside the treatment room . And to complicate matters , Luke starts to develop an inftuation with Squire's step-daughter Stephanie ( Olivia Thirlby ) , with Squires being really against it because of Luke's summer occupation of choice , and Luke's mission ( with Squires ' encouragement and direction ) to get laid in order to lift up his depressing spirits . Thematically , I'd like to look at the exploration of romantic love between the couples in the film , where it looks at a new , budding romance between Luke and Stephanie , and maturing ones such as that between Luke's parents which is fraught with quarrels and disagreements , and the one between Squires and his wife Kristin ( Famke Janssen ) , which suffers from indifference . Each couple has their unique problems to deal with , and I suppose those who are unmarried will identify the puppy love easily , while keeping an eye for potential problems in the future facing older couples should that spark between them be lost . Levine fuses a number of comedic situations effortlessly into the film , and has a respectable selection of classic hip-hop tunes from the 90s era such as those by the Notorious B . I . G . even . Josh Peck and Ben Kingsley share some superb chemistry together on screen that makes their character interaction a joy to pay attention to , and veteran Kingsley often steals the thunder from his younger co-star for that boundless energy given to his character , and it's quite unlike any other role that I've seen him in before . Fans of Mary-Kate Olsen would be disappointed though with a very limited screen time from their idol , but it's not as if her druggie hippie character was anything worthwhile to sit up and take note . As a coming of age story , this film works thanks primarily to its casting , and the hallucinatory-like quallity that Levine had employed to push the narrative forward . Humour as always , never fail to make the right connections with the audience , especially if effectively done , with wackness .
A Nutshell Review : Stealth	The loud music and high octane action from the start of the film make no apologies that this is how a summer popcorn action movie should begin . Rob Cohen , famed for his previous directorial action flicks The Fast and the Furious , and xXx , again weaves his magic in thrusting ( pardon the pun ) relatively unknowns into carrying the burden of delivering an adrenaline pumping film for the masses . The trailer sorts of explains the storyline , though I feel that it did not do the film any justice by barely scratching the surface and presenting a very ordinary looking action film - An AI powered jet plane joins 3 pilots in their mission , gets zapped by lightning , which fried its circuitry , and goes rouge . Well , that happens in the first half of the movie , in only first gear . The film may seem like Top Gun meets Behind Enemy Lines meets Iron Eagle , but its futuristic setting makes the fictitious Talon Navy fighter jet a worthy screen successor to the F-14 Tomcat and the F-16 Falcon . EDI ( pronounced Eddie ) is the newest addition to a top secret military fighter plane project . EDI is self-learning and self-aware , and downloads every song available on the Internet for its listening pleasure . But in an observational training mission , picks up bad habits , courtesy of none other than Josh Lucas ' human , cocky ace pilot . Discussions are aplenty at the start , where characters ponder over the nature of having artificial intelligence wage wars on our behalf - things like being impartial , morality , sense of judgement , self-preservation etc . But you and I know that these themes take a backseat once the action takes over . Which brings me to exclaim , the action is WOW . Being a fan of films featuring fighter jets , it is definitely a giant leap from the Top Gun days ( which is actually a long time back ) . Here , we have the handsome looking experimental Talon jet , tight and intense dogfights ( which may be too fast for some ) , innovative aerial cinematography ( though digitally created ) , which probably inherited techniques from Fast and Furious - here the camera weaves around jets , zooming into the cockpit , the Heads Up Display , funnelling through the electronics before leaving the scene via what I call the " missile view " . Set pieces did not disappoint , like the mission in Rangoon , Myanmmar , and other locales which I will not reveal to keep the suspense . While standard scenes in an aerial movie will probably include the Ejection seat ( note : this ain't a spoiler , it's in the trailer ! ) , this one probably kept me at the edge of my seat with its gripping and harrowing blow by blow account of the thought process as the pilot plummets towards earth . Digital Domain proved to be a formidable competitor to Industrial Light and Magic for the special effects put into this film . The only cheese I cringed at were the digitized world maps , but other than that , everything else was quite well done . The cast had their work cut out for them , especially Josh Lucas . With Cohen's alumni of leading men like Vin Diesel making it big , you might expect Lucas to buckle under pressure , but he did a commendable job , actually giving Cruise a run for his money in the arrogance department , if we're to compare both pilots from different films . Jessical Biel is no stranger to action movies , and this film actually reinforced the notion that she could be a potential female action star in the making . My only disappointment was the treatment of Jamie Foxx . Watch and you'll understand why . While the film tries too hard to layer itself with deeper sub plots like dirty politics and shady government characters , and ended up a tad predictable , for its action alone , it should appeal to Cohen and flight fans who are waiting for end-to-end action . Non-fans however , will probably lay the smackdown on this actioner .
A Nutshell Review : Check It Out Yo !	Check It Out , Yo ! likely has flown under the radar of cinema listings here , given that the publicity machinery for this Japanese movie wasn't cranked , if at all . Along the veins of movies such as Swing Girls , Linda Linda Linda and even Hula Girls , what if a musical genre of sorts had male protagonists instead , just like how Waterboys did for synchronized swimming . Sounds like a no brainer idea , but while Check It Out , Yo ! had its moments , it plateaued in its finale and didn't deliver the sucker punch required as per the previous movies mentioned , which is a pity of course . And it's not about the gender too . The movie centers on Toru Isaka ( Hayato Ichihara ) , a student at the crossroads of teenage life , who together with his good friends Tetsuo Tamashiro ( Yuta Hiraoka , who was in Be With You and Swing Girls ) and Akira Motobe ( Tasuku Emoto ) are trying to figure out what next to do with their lives . Their mutual female friend Yui Haebaru the tomboy ( Mao Inoue ) and wrestling freak , offers them a ticket each to the gig of the hottest indie rap band in town , the Workaholics , and it dawned upon them to aspire to be in a band too , given the countless female adulation that they will receive . But given that they have zero experience in playing musical instruments , and an even non - existent track record in writing lyrics , it's all an uphill task made all the more challenging when they sign up to be the opening gig for the Workaholics , which means a do-or-die performance to deliver . And in between their training , Toru has to find time to romance his new crush Nagisa Nakamura ( Ayumi Ito , voice of Tifa Lockhart of the Final Fantasy movies ) , the girlfriend of Workaholic's frontman Ryota Taram ( Tetsuji Tamayama , from Nana ) , while at the same time being oblivious to the affections that Yui has for him , who in turn is liked by Tetsuo . . . my , my , the affairs of the heart do get complicated , don't they ? The movie was found to have been centered around this love heptagon , which meant that other aspects that you'd expect coming out of a musical , get casted aside . A pity of course , as there was only one hilarious and simply engaging musical sequence midway through the movie which highlighted their trials and determination to make it good in time for their performance , thanks to Yui's sister and brother-in-law , a large-sized hawaiian man who becomes the master of the boy's new band 098 , but only just quite . No doubt the visuals are extremely colourful and beautiful - I particularly liked those shots set in front of the aquarium - but these can't mask the relatively weak storyline despite having plenty of supporting cardboard characters like their individual , feuding parents and a teacher who can't get his personal relationships in order , to spice up the movie . And what I found to be an immense waste , is the entire sequence set up for the finale , which the finale failed to live up to , given that it's just a one song performance , and a truncated one at that too . While it may be cliché to have the protagonists succeed in the end , just like how Swing Girls and the mentioned movies had achieved , at least they left the audience with a sense of satisfaction in seeing how far they have progressed in their training . Here , it became a letdown , despite the potential that had been prepped . However , Check It Out , Yo ! Still remains a charming movie in its own right , barring the lack of a punch to the final moments . If you still intend to watch this , then you'd have to do so soon as it is likely to survive on screen for another week .
A Nutshell Review : Udon	Don't watch Udon on an empty stomach , or you'll be tempted to gorge on those Japanese noodles right after the screening . Despite its simple presentation , watching bowls after bowls of noodles in your face , and the characters slurping them down with gusto , somehow leaves you with an imagined flavour in your mouth as they smack their lips , while you smack at nothing . The film is as simple as a bowl of udon noodles , with prime ingredients being the fat noodles , the broth , a sprinkle of spring onions , and an egg . Of course there are the fancy combinations of added condiments and ingredients to spice things up , but unfortunately for the film , it became a story of two distinct halves , with little character development between each half , and contained a little too many subplots that were necessary , bringing the runtime to a whopping 2 hours 15 minutes . I thought the more interesting of the lot was in the first half , where the movie takes a look on fads . Similarly to Bubble Tea or the Luohan Fish fads , what turned out to be essentially fairly good products , boomed in popularity because it managed to latch on the novelty factor , and yet suffered when its 15 minutes of fame was up . Scores of bubble tea stores collapse from the oversupply and people generally being sick of the drink , and the Luohan fish went back to the longkangs . Good intentions sometimes bring about uncontrollable negative costs . But Udon as " soul food " , and the highlight of a magazine column , sparked off the rage of the noodle in all of Japan , as everyone descends to the small town of Sanuki where there are plenty of Udon eateries around tucked in obscure corners . The movie follows two protagonists - Kosuke Matsui ( Yusuke Santamaria ) , a failed comedian who tried his luck at New York stand up comedy clubs , and returns to his hometown where his father runs a mean udon shop , and Kyoko Miyagawa ( Manami Konishi ) , a blur like sotong girl who has zero sense of direction . Kosuke , in wanting to clear his debts , and not in good terms with Dad , turns out to work as a salesman of a local magazine , and becomes colleagues with Kyoko , before the entire editorial crew jumped upon the opportunity of scouting and reviewing various Udon shops , positioning themselves in time for the craze . My eyes were on the bowls of noodle , as well as the cute looking Manami Konishi , who had a bit part in Kiyoshi Kurosawa's Retribution , where she had pretty little to do . As the heroine in Udon , don't expect much too , but at least she plays the supportive friend , while being comic fodder in the first half . For those who prefer drama , the second half of Udon will be your cup of tea , as the movie shifts into lower gear to examine the love-hate ties between Kosuke and his dad , and would be chefs out there would want to pay attention here to pick up some secrets into preparing that perfect bowl of udon . Coupled with a bit of comedy and a snazzy CGI-ed sequence played totally for its cheese , director Katsuyuki Motohiro and writer Masashi Todayama seemed to have piled on too much for Udon , unlike their earlier work on the Bayside Shakedown movies , which had a lot going , but managed to pull it off because it still boiled down to cops solving crime , in a rather daily operational look at the police force from different perspectives of those on the beat , and those on the ivory tower . But similar to being spoilt for choice with udon being served and prepared in either hot in cold , hot in hot or just cold , Udon the movie couldn't decide what it wants to be - pseudo - documentary , comedy , family drama , romance , that while each serves its purpose , these ingredients don't manage to gel together to become a formidable dish . Watchable , but nothing too memorable .
A Nutshell Review : The Machinist	There is a purpose in watching this movie , and that is to check out Christian Bales's acting chops before his Batman Begins opens in the summer . The narrative is confusing at first . There doesn't seem to be any clear direction on where the plot and its subplots lead to . All we know is Bale looks thin , for some reason , isn't getting enough sleep , and develops relationships with a widow , her kid , and a hooker . As always , most dark thrillers have a twist at the end , and if you can sit tight , you'll get it - not that it will be presented in a confusing manner , just that the pacing could be improved . Actually with shows like Fight Club and Memento around , this show might feel like a fusion between the two , and hence , you might have warranted a guess on the twist midway through the show . Christian Bale has sacrificed quite a bit to look the role . With the lingering full body shots of his anorexic body , which at times is painful to look at , one can imagine the kind of toil it must have took . Definite for fans of mysteries and thrillers .
A Nutshell Review : Fast & Furious	The tagline caught my attention , promising a brand new movie with the original cast of Vin Diesel , Paul Walker , Michelle Rodriguez and Jordana Brewster . With the relative box office success of the first film , the sequel 2 Fast 2 Furious saw only Walker returning , with Tyrese trying very hard to step into the big frame of Diesel's without much success . Tokyo Drift picked up the adrenaline from the East's Initial D , injecting the franchise with some Asian flavour , though the only good thing out of that was the introduction of Sung Kang's character Han . So the 4th movie tries to bring together all the best characters to appease fans , and the timeline of this installment sits snugly in between the first and second movies where we learn that Han and Toretto do go all the way back together . Perfect . Vin Diesel had The Fast and the Furious back in 2001 to thank for in making him a household name , where every fan boy out there left the theatres chanting his name and wishing they could emulate his road stunts if given a car as powerful as that in the film . However we know how he turned his back on a franchise , and how his film career had turned out recently , with stinkers such as Babylon A . D . crowding out his filmography . If he's sorely in need of a return to form , then I guess it doesn't take much rocket science to figure out that he would be tempted to return to his Dominic Toretto roots after his cameo in Tokyo Drift . It was smart of Justin Lin to have featured Torretto in his film then just to whet the appetites of fans everywhere , and to helm this installment by trying to top the first film by getting the first cast all back . However , some parts do get rusty after so long , and in wanting to stamp his authority over the original , had made some drastic decisions in order to keep the engine fine tuned and purring . Since it's before the second movie , Toretto is still an outlaw , and Paul Waker's Brian O'Conner is now working for the FBI , before his unexplained turn to crime in 2 Fast 2 Furious , which gets explained here , if you wish of course . The plot doesn't drift away from the standard cop-robber formula , with a cat and mouse game brewing involving a drug run from Mexico and the USA making use of expert drivers to be couriers between the two countries . And when murder is in the name of the game , Toretto gets involved for vengeance , and O'Conner , well , just doing his job . It's just an excuse to see the Diesel-Walker team up , and the franchise's formula dictates plenty of random scantily clad girls gyrating in front of the camera , while hot cars with modified engines gleam seductively under dim garages , and the screeching of tyres when tearing up the roads . If a race movie is not your cup of tea ( after so many copycats have come out to milk fans of the genre ) , then this franchise offers nothing new . Granted that Hollywood doesn't do car chases like it used to , relying a lot now on plenty of computer animation and graphics to spice up the sequences and entertain . Those itching to see a lot of action will have to contend with only 4 major set action pieces , with 2 of which happen in the same tunnel , one bringing back memories from the first film in a heist that doesn't go exactly right , and one being the nod back to Tokyo Drift in having a downtown city area night time race . Fans of the franchise will still find this a worthy addition , but everyone else would wonder why the effort . If this film continues to make money , I won't be surprised if the next film picks up from where Tokyo Drift left off , maybe with the return of Lucas Black's Sean Boswell joining the new crew in a new adventure , with new cars to smash , new babes to romance , and more nitro to burn up the tracks .
A Nutshell Review : Dead Silence	In 2004 , James Wan and Leigh Whannell burst into contemporary horror-thriller genre with their highly successful movie Saw , and had created quite an enigmatic character in Jigsaw , the serial killer with highly questionable morality issues . Success had meant spawning a slew of sequels , though they hadn't really had much direct control over the quality of the subsequent movies , which I thought to date had made quite a neat trilogy . So the pressure's to create something new , to wow audiences all over again . And sometimes , expectations set high will run into challenges when they're not met . Wan and Whannell combine forces once again for another potential stab at the genre and in doing so , had created a new character called Mary Shaw , a ventriloquist who had inspired an adage about having to keep quiet should you encounter her . However , Mary Shaw turned out to be a weak Jigsaw wannabe , and uses ( well , you can say Jigsaw was inspired by ) her wooden puppets , whom she calls children , to send chills and spills . I'm not sure why , but those demonic looking dolls are indeed creepy enough , they give Chucky of Child's Play a run for his money . As with Jigsaw , some time is invested in having characters dig into Mary Shaw's background . It works like an investigative mystery , and as it went along , you'll begin to see some similarities in structure with Saw - the numerous twists and turns , events that are more than meets the eye , one more involving cops which I shall not ruin , and of course , the doll ( see if you can spot the one Jigsaw uses ) ! But if compared , then Dead Silence was not as tight , and had a number of loopholes so wide , that it could be considered as a cheat . The story tells of Jamie Ashen ( Ryan Kwanten ) who was made a widower when an unexpected delivery of Billy # 57 , the ventriloquist doll , seems to be the cause of his wife's demise - in probably one of the more gruesome scenes I've seen in a while . Investigations lead him to his hometown , where superstition about Mary Shaw ( Judith Roberts ) seem be more than what is superficially discussed . Jamie gets reluctant help from Detective Jim Lipton ( Donnie Wahlberg ) , while having to contend with his own estranged father , and his young wife with model looks ( Amber Valletta ) . Superb light and shadow play amplifies the creepy moments in Dead Silence , and it doesn't rely too much on cheap shock tactics to make you scream ( wait , you're not supposed to , lest Mary Shaw rips your tongue out ) . With a bluish tinge throughout , Dead Silence rely quite successfully on its moody atmospherics and patient buildup , though I thought that its somewhat slower pacing would have enabled audiences to piece everything together for themselves . Unlike Saw's superb sleight of hand tactics , this one played out in a more straightforward manner , and sometimes quite clumsily too . The sound effects , when there's a premonition of something bad about to happen , works wonderfully in a crowded theatre , in creating heightened tension and anticipation . Alas its loopholes spoilt what could have been yet another classic winner from Wan and Whannell , but Dead Silence had primed itself for potential sequels , should anyone want to pick up the ball from here . Watchable , but not by any Saw standards .
A Nutshell Review : The Pink Panther	The Pink Panther actually refers to an enormous pink diamond with a flaw in the shape of a panther , and not to Inspector Jacques Clouseau , but because of the iconic pink panther's appearance in the animated opening credits , along with the all too familiar theme by Henry Mancini , it's all too easy to associate one with the other . Of course , many Pink Panther / Jacques Clouseau movies did deal with the pink diamond , but there are other tales weaved into the Clouseau mythos that did not . Peter Sellers owned the Clouseau role , and it is naturally a pair of big boots to fill . But I'm glad to say that Steve Martin has taken this role on bravely , and brought a new , more in-your-face slapstick dimension to Clouseau . Purists might call it blasphemy , but for the new generation , it might serve as a springboard introduction to the Sellers ' version . This movie is set early in Clouseau's career as an Inspector , prior to the first Sellers movie . It's an updated retelling however , with things like the Internet and Viagra worked into the plot . And the plot is extremely simple - the French football coach gets assassinated during a football game , and his Pink Panther diamond goes missing . Chief Inspector Dreyfus ( Kevin Kline ) deliberately assigns police idiot Clouseau to the case , while secretly working behind the scenes to try and track the case himself , for the medal of honor . So we follow Clouseau and his assistant Ponton ( a clean shaved Jean Reno ) as they go about their investigations , bringing them to casinos , recording studios , football changing rooms , and even to New York . There are plenty of situational comedy , slapstick , and loads of subtle sexual innuendo wordplay , playing up on Clouseau's mispronunciation and double takes . But certain scenes do stretch it a bit and somehow could be omitted , like the part where he engages an American speech coach . What made this movie enjoyable , is the casting . Steve Martin brought a sense of familiarity , and he partners Jean Reno really well . The chemistry between the two men made this movie watchable , as we see Reno breezing through this with a deliberate straight face . Match Point fans might be glad to see Emily Mortimer here as Clouseau's bespectacled secretary , and it seemed that she was there as an unexpected love interest , as well as to further certain gross humour from the start . Beyonce Knowles stars as a singer ( what else ? ) and she can add this role to her resume for being featured in another detective / spy franchise ( the other being Mike Myers ' Austin Powers ) . Sadly , she doesn't do much here except pout , dress sexy , perform sexy , and sing , compared to her much meatier role as Foxy Cleopatra . But the real gem in this movie , is that of Clive Owen's appearance . Watch out for that casino scene , where he appears in a tuxedo , and in a role that gives everyone a glimpse of what he can do as 007 . That suaveness , that campy drink made fun of , and easily discovered as being in her Majesty's secret service . Sadly , it's a role that's not to be , but here , he hams it up as 006 ( you must listen closely to Clouseau's follow up comment on that ! ) . It's a real blast ! Alas , this film is ( drumroll please ) censored at a point . And that's very disappointing . I thought the whole dance sequence with Clouseau and Ponton could have contributed to more laughs . I was laughing , then stopped when the music jerked , obvious that a censor's scissors had made its effect felt . It was a bad cut , and perhaps one which was unnecessary even to keep it within PG levels . The storyline is predictable and it's nothing to shout about . But to chase away long workday blues , then give The Pink Panther a watch , You just might be tempted to get your hands on the original series , just to see Clouseau work his magic in his other adventures .
A Nutshell Review : Pulse ( Kairo ) ( 2001 )	I've chanced upon this DVD at the Esplanade Library , and thought that it would be essential viewing before the Hollywood remake descends upon us in September . While the remake's trailer seemed scary enough with its freaky ghouls , I was apprehensive how spooked I will get when watching the original from writer director Kiyoshi Kurosawa . And surprise , I found it to be palatable . and it confirms one thing though about the limited J - Horror movies that I've seen . There is minimal in-your-face shock-and-awe tactics . In Kairo , the mood and atmosphere is extremely measured with its superb controlled use of light and shadow . Expect things to go bump in the dark , but not too often though . I believe what makes J-Horror movies a spookfest , is its ability to weave freaky stories from seemingly everyday events and objects . The Ring has its VCR tape and television set , while here , it's the Internet , a website which asks if you would like to meet a ghost , and a computer's ability to dial up on its own . From the start you're presented with a mysterious suicide , before the movie progresses with people in the city disappearing for no apparent reason , and vague happenings with shadows and black stains at spots where people die . The ideas presented here , on loneliness and that human connection , seem interesting enough to ponder upon , as it questions if the use of technological tools like the computer brings people together , or further isolates us from one another . It also tried to ask a hypothetical what-if question , of what would happen if the other region which ghosts belong to , would be finitely occupied by the spirits , and their numbers start to spill over to our realm . Most of the time , nothing really happens in the movie , which might seem a bore to those weaned on jump scares , quick cuts and actual ghouls and goblins making an appearance to scare the wits out of the leads . I liked the shot where the car roams around an empty streets of Japan , kinda reminds me of Danny Boyle's 28 Days Later , or even cheesy fests such as Resident Evil . While I thought it was not scary , my friend warned me about the after effects , which I've yet to experience , not until the sun sets at least . And heck , I'm using the internet right now to write this too . Hope the screen doesn't go freaky on me . . . Code 1 DVD comes with the theatrical trailer , which seems scary enough on its own , and a 41 minute long making-of documentary .
A Nutshell Review : The Hunting Party	The first words that appear in the movie , told the audience something to the effect that only the most ridiculous or ludicrous of situations depicted , are true . And in fact , while it's supposedly based loosely on a true story off an Esquire article , there are enough of such said moments thrown into the mix so frivolously , that one would be forgiven should one think that this was entire made up . So what eventually held up the movie despite its wafer thin plot and hurried finale was the chemistry and banter between two charismatic actors in Richard Gere and Terrence Howard . Narrated by Howard's Duck , a cameraman who's part of a tag team with Gere's gung-ho go - getting news reporter Simon , Duck recounts in the first 10 minutes the glory days of their partnership , where they brazenly dive right into conflict zones around the world just to live up the adrenaline , and gather awards , recognition and chicks along the way . But the Bosnian War in the 90s soon become the final straw that broke the camel's back of endurance on the evils of mankind , and coupled with the fact of personal loss , Simon loses it live on the air , and with that uncontrollable outburst , cost him his job and relegation from A-lister to scraping whatever unwanted news he can from places nobody is interested in . As for Duck , he gets promoted to a cushy job working the cameras behind the scenes for a news anchor , and while the perks are good , he clearly misses the good ol ' days of being shot at , and being at the forefront bringing conflict to the masses . Fast forward to 5 years after the conflict in Bosnia had ended , Simon and Duck meet again , and the former proposes one more collaboration between the two , that of snagging the much sought after interview with the war criminal known as The Fox ( Ljubomir Kerekes ) , with rookie Benjamin ( Jesse Eisenberg ) in tow . What was soon discovered though , was Simon's personal quest for glory in wanting to arrest The Fox to claim the bounty of US$5M , which of course runs against the grain of the profession , and not to mention the escalating of risks involved . There is potential plastered all over the movie which unfortunately when unfulfilled . For starters , the numerous cover ups of what could have been successful sting operations to make the necessary arrests . We all know how NATO and UN forces , well in fact the world , just stood back and watched while Bosnia burnt itself through ethnic cleansing , and how during the peacekeeping efforts thereafter , led to the discovery that the forces aren't doing much about the seeking and arresting of war criminals . The cover ups would have made this one huge web of conspiracy to sift through . However the hunting party had it too easy in just following a set pattern of hitting the bars for their clues , while encountering nasty locals who insinuate that their target was indeed around town . Supporting characters come and go , though the best were reserved for those men in uniform ( love that Indian UN peacekeeper whose job was to train the local police ) , Diane Kruger in a role that could have been filled by any other blonde , and a welcome inclusion of Dylan Baker as a secret operative who's no fan of what our party of three got themselves into . And of course , not forgetting the self - fulfilling prophecy of having ludicrous moments in the story , which made it slightly comedic , unintentionally . While the story's pretty much plain sailing , it is the charisma of both Gere and Howard that made this movie rather engaging , with one having nothing and thus losing nothing in this crazy , dangerous pursuit , and with the other having just about everything to lose from position , career and a hot chick in waiting . Sure there are other moralistic viewpoints that the movie could have , would have and probably should have adopted to make it a thinking man's movie , but what came across ultimately was a tongue-in-cheek rendition of a serious topic made frivolous by the many trivialities used to spice up the movie for mass entertainment . Could have been great , but alas .
A Nutshell Revoew : ( DVD ) To Be and To Have ( 2002 )	The thing that caught my eye to picking up this documentary DVD from the library was a cute kid with dirty hands soiled by paint , and the plenty of high flying accolades bestowed on the film by reputable critics and publications . Naturally my interest was piqued , but after watching this Nicholas Philibert directed documentary , while it had its charming moments , it doesn't warrant , in my opinion , some of the praises that it had garnered . George Lopez is a teacher in a small town , and has to handle the challenge of educating his students , ranging from 3 years of age , to 11 . Being a small town , naturally resources are limited , and he has not only to cater his methods to teach his students of different capabilities , but also to tackle a myriad of subjects , ranging from art , to mathematics , to language too . Talk about multi-tasking , and extreme dedication to the job ( most I guess would have bolted given the workload , and responsibility ) , he doesn't find the need to raise his voice at those who misbehave , choosing instead to reason with them like adults , using his soft voice to win the most hardened of hearts . But the stars of the documentary are the children . Philibert had revealed in an interview ( included in the DVD as an extra ) that he had deliberately chosen this particular school , for its logistics in supporting a film crew on site , but more importantly , for the size of the class of students , nothing too large that each becomes a passing face , but something manageable so that they can come across vividly . And having chosen this particular class of 12 , and their teacher with his more than positive approach and attitude , are what made this documentary tick . The children are as adorable as they are in need of some serious education . Early in the documentary we see them struggling with mathematics ( OK , so they are the 3-4 year olds ) , but in one truly memorable scene was when one of them brought back his homework , and had to unwittingly enlist the help of parents and relatives to help him solve the problem . But alas , to my dismay , I later found it to be fabricated , which sort of spoilt my overall feeling toward this documentary - thou shalt not meddle with thy subjects . However , what I thought was unique in Philibert's approach to documentary making , was the conscious decision to minimize the number of talking heads . There isn't any , not until the one hour mark , where George Lopez had to give a short history of himself and his underlying motivation to teaching , but other than that , it's almost like a fictional narrative in the way the subject of education is being handled . Not one with big sets nor wanting to incorporate controversial elements , To Be and To Have is stoically quiet , and touching in the moments where teacher and students connect , especially when one is trusted enough to be a confidante , and dispensing good advice and words of encouragement to children under his charge . For those scenes I credit George Lopez for his relentless work in providing a firm grounding and good work attitude to the students under him . But alas , any notions I had on the film's honesty were somehow tainted by Philibert's revelation . Still not a bad movie , despite it being slow ( to mirror the long , arduous journey one goes through to receive a decent education ) , but one which could have been a lot more sincere in putting forth the material .
A Nutshell Review : La Vie En Rose	Of late , musical biographies make popular films especially when they dish out anecdotes on the various ups and downs in the lifestyles of the rich and famous , and especially so when the music they play and the songs they sing happen to be evergreen classics , or at least those which you've probably heard before at one point in time . In recent years , Walk the Line and Ray have also garnered popular film awards , and not to mention raised the profiles of the stars like Joaquin Phoenix and Jamie Foxx respectively who played the musical legends . Unfortunately , La Vie En Rose was a little difficult to find a connection with , for shallow people like me . Edith Piaf was one of France's most famous singers , which no doubt counted towards the success of the movie when it premiered in France . But for the ahem younger generation that I belong to , the songs only sound remotely familiar . I'll be more in tune if you ask me about Alizee , but Edith Piaf , it's a different era altogether . However , that does not mean that the movie cannot be enjoyed , as it opens up your eyes ( and ears ) to a whole new musical world out there . Played by Marion Cotillard , you might do a double take because gone is that va-va-vroom lover opposite Russell Crowe in A Good Life , and in place , a transformed figure as the legendary singer . The movie traces the life of Edith Piaf , as a young child abandoned by her parents to live in a brothel , to surviving in the streets performing with her dad , and to life as a singing busker until she's discovered , and makes the stage her world . And as we bear witness to her tumultuous life , Cotillard becomes surprisingly chameleon like , thanks to the wonderful makeup , and her nuance performance as a character who has her periodic mood swings , shooting insults off the cuff , while maintaining her feisty selfishness to have things go her way . It's a biography that covered a wide spectrum , ambitiously wanting to cover all ground from her addiction to her career to her luckless in love romantic life , and at most times , seem scattered and all over the place . Characters get introduced and flit in and out of the narrative with nary a proper introduction , and those unfamiliar with her story , will find it a tad frustrating . Her brush with the Hollywood legends like Marlon Brando and Charlie Chaplin only gets mentioned in passing ( no big name cameos here , unlike that which was found in Scorsese's The Aviator ) , and only Marlene Dietrich got a one minute screen time to whet what possibly could come ( and not ) . The narrative structure too enhances your suffering by wanting to be unconventional and adopted the fractured timeline , but too much going backwards-forwards-sideways , sometimes opting to time stamp , while others tried feebly to fade in using artifacts , failed miserably . I believe that should it chose to be more conventional , and stuck to the boring chronological timeline in telling the story , it would have made even more fans for those unfamiliar with the legend . However , one thing's for sure , the songs in those days are lovely , par none . No technical pyrotechnics to jazz up and disguise a weak singer voice so possessed by many wannabes these days , singers from the era have just the music , meaningful lyrics , a microphone and a powerful voice to please fans and win over new ones . For me however , I'll stick to Alizee , thank you very much .
A Nutshell Review : Art of the Devil 2	I've been intrigued by Thai Voodoo for the longest time , not that I would want to be on the receiving end of it , but it makes you wonder the amount of clout and ( real ? ) ability of these medicine men who put hexes and curses on your behalf , for a small fee . And it always seem that what they do to you , from simple artifacts like a voodoo doll , can inflict so much pain onto your real self with just a simple needle poked on a right position on the straw doll . Art of the Devil 2 is not a sequel , in that it has no relation to the first ( which I am now intrigued to watch as it stars Chai-Lai Angel Supaksorn Chaimongkol ) , although they deal with the same supernatural forces in Thai lore . It tells a story of a physically attractive model teacher , Ms Panor ( Napakpapha Nakprasitte ) , and her group of students , one of whom she is a stepmother to . However , as with all misunderstandings , it stems off with what the eyes see and the ears here , and the mind believing . With black magic in the works , things are never what it seems , as the group of students revisit their teacher a few years after a tragic and shameful incident happened in school . Why , you'll never understand , but we need something to have them all put together to get something going . This movie has plenty of gory moments which offers some good scares , given the disgusting things that happen to the victims of the hex . If torture scenes in Syrianna and Hard Candy made you squirm in your seat , then your stomach is up for more churning , given the previous two films did it more psychologically and with off-camera scenes , whereas here you're not spared the visual details , leaving none to the imagination , even if certain shots might look cheap and unrealistic . The gore grips you right from the start , giving you a hint that if you can't stand what you've just seen in the first few minutes , you won't be better off for the rest of the movie . In an environment where almost everyone is not as innocent as they seem , keeping secrets close to their hearts , and the usage of black magic to achieve their individual desires and objectives commonplace , it perhaps served as a reminder not to dabble in the black arts , either as a practitioner or an end user , as there are always warnings of ill fate that befall upon them . Unlike the Sixth Sense with its slick execution , script and delivery , Art of the Devil 2 had a rather satisfactory ending , but with the final stroke of the pen in creating the finale , it presented itself with a major loophole that seemed to have glossed over what transpired earlier , which is a big no-no in trying to force audiences to accept the " new truth " . However , if your intention is to get some scares , then this movie still delivers , if you'd be forgiving to the ending .
A Nutshell Review : 30 Days of Night	While we're about a month away from the season of good tidings and the new year , what we have lined up for the next 4 weeks or so are 4 cinematic releases that deal with zombies , the supernatural and the undead . We have been teased with Aliens Vs Predators again in a town where the humans stand in their way and become sacrificial pawns . We have Will Smith in I Am Legend being the last man on Earth fending off strange creatures in the night . We have a group of shoppers stuck in a supermarket when Stephen King unleashes The Mist on them . And I actually enjoyed the latter 2 trailers for having adopted some bars off Clint Mansell's soundtrack for The Fountain ( will we see more , since Requiem's was used ever so often ) . And the competition amongst them starts with 30 Days of Night , adapted from a graphic novel , which tells of the small town on Barrow in the northernmost part of Alaska having to go through 30 days without sunlight in winter , and those who can't stand the cold and the thought of living without sunlight , have opted to leave . It's pretty much business as usual , until a bunch of vampires decide to crash in and feast . And this is the beginning of one of my gripes about the film , as hokey as how the Superman comics team dreamt up of Doomsday - it just appears , with zero thought about justification and the whys and the hows . Um , so we're to believe that this group of super bloodsuckers led by Danny Huston's Marlow have been idling for centuries somewhere on Earth where the sun doesn't shine , before deciding that they have to respond to that rumble in the stomach . So once you can believe that , and the thought of it dismissed by a one-liner , it's a pretty gory vampire flick on most accounts . They're infused with 28 Days / Weeks styled speed and utter craving for plasma , and as a team , their moves are very keenly calculated . Thinking it's hip to invent languages , we learn Vampire-speak too , though most of the time their fangs get in the way of their pronunciation , so they sound like they're choking on thick clotted blood . Watching the way they dispatch their sorry victims , even though the camera cuts away just at the point of teeth plunging into jugular veins like how rabid dogs attack , you still feel a frightening chill when the view comes back to jolting bodies having their liquids sucked dry , and those scenes are disturbing , even after you leave the theatre . Those fingernails cum talons too provide our vampires with a facial weapon , and how you wish they use it to silence themselves each time they lapse into their orgasmic shrieks . Director David Slade of Hard Candy fame knows how to create tension and horror without showing you much , and that happens to be a plus point with its extremely patient build up , and the heightening of suspense . You have to tip your hat at him for crafting a very quiet movie at crucial scenes , so much so that the audience lend their " Ssshhhhs " not to tell fellow audience to keep quiet , but aimed at the characters themselves to remain like little mice lest they get detected . 30 Days of Night is a very grey movie in mood , tone and the weather , with occasional white landscapes littered with splatters of crimson , and with Slade just loving to provide us overhead views of the town run aground by rampaging monsters . The humans here though behave like typical vampire movie fodder . The bigger the ensemble , the more victims it can provide , not counting anonymous folks seen being victims from afar . Josh Hartnett's Sheriff Eben plays hero as he leads his bewildered town kinsman to survive through this 30 days of mayhem before the sun shines again , while trying to work out his estranged relationship with wife Stella ( a very pouty Melissa George from Turistas , and I still say she's a dead ringer for Estella Warren ! ) . As usual , you have a team of misfits feeding off each other's strength in a quest for survival , and a theme such as Sacrifice is never too far away from movies like these . But what I felt was a let down to its build up , was the unsatisfying ending , which left a bitter aftertaste with its abruptness and inability to resolve anything substantial . It also didn't allow for any sympathy for the victims as you would sometimes find yourself rooting for another kill just to satisfy your blood lust , also because little time is given for you to get to know those characters . As the humans learn that guns do zilch to their targets , there goes all hope , and try as they could to get creative in turning the tables , it boiled down to keeping it simple . Oh , and if you enjoyed the supermarket scene , I'd bet it served as a precursor to The Mist . 30 Days of Night could have been a lot more , but unfortunately left some bits to be desired . If you truly want to enjoy this new age vampire movie , then I suggest leaving any inquisitiveness at the door , as the movie offers no answers nor clues to answer your whys . Perhaps a reading of the graphic novel might help .
A Nutshell Review : School Days With A Pig	Our nature is such that we care most for the people we are related to , and know on a personal level . Otherwise , it's likely everything else is just a number , a statistic , something that feels so distant that it's genuinely difficult for us to sympathize , or emphatize beyond a cursory statement that explains how we should feel as decent human beings . In increasing levels of concern when a tragedy occurs , if something strikes overseas , it's unfortunate . If it's local then it's lucky it didn't affect someone we know . If it does and it's not family , we offer our condolences . If someone we know becomes collateral damage , we suffer inconsolable rage even . School Days with a Pig plays along this line where teacher Mr Hoshi ( Satoshi Tsumabuki ) decides to give his class a head start in life , where Man sits on the top of the food chain , and everything below is fair game when it comes to filling up the stomach . He also attempts to teach the children that in our living comes the sacrifice of other living beings just because they are expendable in the natural order of things , but that doesn't mean not acknowledging creatures like chickens , cows and pigs . Given his unorthodox methods , it was also explained why specifically a pig and not the other animals , so that may appease those who jump the gun too quickly in say this reeks of Babe . The film reminded me of an anecdote which is from another movie ( whose title eludes me now ) , where a teacher had asked his students to draw a chicken , and he received pictures of burgers , patties and basically animal parts like thighs , breasts and wings . It's come to a stage where our food supply chain is so modernized and processed , that children no longer recognize or need to know the source of their food . We also don't see how the animals get chopped and slaughtered behind the scenes , and I suppose many more would turn vegetarian should we witness how it comes through the assembly line . In any case , this story on the surface is about the raising of a piglet by the teacher and his students from the 6th grade , where their objective from the start is to nourish it , and then to eat it . Directed by Tetsu Maeda based upon the novel by Yasushi Kuroda , it comes with plenty of excitable kids who are now given their first collective pet , and take great pains in order to ensure that their teacher's plan works to a T . From working together to build a play pen for the pig , to the diligent gathering of leftover food as meals for their pet , they learn the value of teamwork , where everyone chips in a little for the good of everyone else . Then comes the more interesting portions of the film , in between the usual bonding scenes with the pig through fun and games . We have at least two extended debating scenes where Mr Hoshi moderates discussions amongst his charges , separated into those who still insist their project should end with the consuming of P-Chan ( christening any pet is a bad idea for those with intent of abandonment and the likes ) , or to allow a change in letting it continue living in the school grounds as a pet . It is here that the viewpoints get accentuated through the different personalities in the classroom , where everyone is given fair opportunity to make their point heard . It's like observing a political debate in progress , where both sides are equally passionate about their viewpoints , and sometimes allowed emotions to run high , which allowed for some play-acting by the children that I couldn't fathom whether it was all staged , but coming from within for real . And that wouldn't be difficult too , given that they had indeed spent some real time with the pig in order to draw upon some real emotions as to whether they wanted it to live , or to end up on their dinner plates . And as they inched toward graduation , their decision , which is still much split , becomes more dire with an impending sense of urgency to resolve . The piglet might be the gimmick in School Days with a Pig , but the real stars of the show are the children in their natural ability to showcase their range of emotions . It's little wonder why this film won the Toyota Grand Prix Jury Award , and the Audience Award in last year's Tokyo International Film Festival !
A Nutshell Review : Domino	Heads you live . Tails you die . Her name is Domino Harvey . She is a bounty hunter . This unconventional film is based very loosely on the true unconventional life of the daughter of actor Laurence Harvey . Losing her father at an early age , Domino grew up with her mother and lived the good life as a rich girl , becoming a Ford model at one point . But she has always been the aloof social outcast , and tend to loathe the high life ( Beverly Hills brat-packers ) she has been brought up in . She doesn't mince her words , and packs a wallop of a punch too . Chancing upon a Bounty Hunter job , she signs up with one of the best in the business , Ed Mosbey ( Mickey Rourke ) and his partner Choco ( Edgar Ramirez ) . It's a totally different life from one in which she grew up in , but as she explained to Ed , she's in it for the fun and thrills . She's skilled with various weapons like automatic weapons , knives and the Nun-chaks , and fast transforms into an asset to her team , with " bra and panties on " . Soon , the trio become famous in the bounty hunting arena ( who wouldn't with 2 hunks and a gorgeous babe ) , as we follow them through their various exploits . They even have their own reality TV show Bounty Squad , which plays an integral part of the story . The film starts off very intensely and jumps right into the action , before the audience is brought back to the beginning , and chronicles her life from the start . At times , this movie is deliberately filmed in 70-ish television series style , especially the classic opening credits with theme song , character titles , and plenty of images with scenes from the movie . Some in the audience , however , will not appreciate the characteristic MTV styled quick cuts used by director Tony Scott , and I do see him making more films using this style , with his previous films Man on Fire and Spy Game . The soundtrack for this film is vulgarly kinky too . That aside , there might be many not comfortable with the narrative style used , with constant flashbacks , and even " reversing " what had been shown on screen , making it a tad confusing at times . For those who somehow not manage to stay attentive to the plot , you may get lost halfway through , as it involves many characters with various personal motivations , which culminates in an explosive ending . Satisfying at the end , but only if you're patient with the build up , just like one of Tony Scott's earlier movies ( which I shall not mention , as it is similar in narrative structure ) . A number of actors make their appearance in this movie , like Christopher Walken as a reality show producer , Mena Suvari as his mousy secretary , Lucy Liu as an FBI interrogator , even singer Macy Gray and veteran Jacqueline Bisset as Domino's mother . Take note however , that major comedic moments are provided in Jerry Springer's Show , and the early 90s TV series Beverly Hills 90210 contributing 2 actors Ian Ziering and Brian Austin Green to be has-been parodies of themselves . Keira Knightley swears a lot in this film . A whole lot , different from when she first burst into the scene with Bend It Like Beckham . What's amazing is her ability to handle a tough-as-nails character , and the expressing of her emotions in totally different scenes , some sentimental , some sarcastic , some totally kicking rear . It's an eye opener too to watch her handle various deadly weapons with ease . She could well be on her way to marquee a film , though I felt in this one , she had the assistance of Mickey Rourke , and a good supporting cast , to carry this film through . This film is dedicated in memory of the real Domino Harvey , who passed away earlier this year before the movie is released . The real her is seen at the end credits , where they feature the cast , and she makes an appearance as the last character , simply titled " Domino " . Such is the fictional story of an extraordinary life of an unconventional lady .
A Nutshell Review : Wedding Daze	It seems that the success of the American Pie trilogy which starred Jason Biggs and spawned a franchise of spin off movies bearing the American Pie branding , had somewhat slapped an unfortunate tag on actor Biggs . Of all the movies to date that I recall him in , they inevitably revolve around teenagers , sex , or romantic comedies . He can't shake off this tag , and I will be curious to see him take a big leap out of this unwarranted comfort zone , unless of course these are roles that appeal to him , and pays his bills anyway . What makes it ideal for him in roles as these , is his average everyday man looks and attitude . Isla Fisher on the other hand , I've got to admit , despite being in a similar boat as Biggs , has got that exuberant charm that I can't get enough of . I guess it was her infectious smile and laughter in The Wedding Crashers as the psycho babe Gloria stalking Vaughn's Jeremy that made me take notice , and her turn as the carefree , free-spirited April in Definitely , Maybe , had placed the movie as a contender for one of my favourites this year . Perhaps it is her relatively small frame that can always pass her off as a young adult , that she gets saddled with such roles , and again she repeats another rather conventional performance for Wedding Daze , but I'm not complaining . Biggs stars as Anderson , a man in between jobs and who still cannot get over the death of his fiancé ( who actually hasn't said yes ) , spending twice as long a duration to mourn her , than the time spent with her . On his good friend Ted's ( Michael Weston ) advice to go out there and meet people . In a spur of a moment during a dare , Anderson proposes to the waitress serving his table , and surprise , Katie ( Fisher ) says yes . But of course things are never smooth sailing , as the couple soon discovers what they should have discovered during courtship , thus putting numerous spins and surprises that made this comedy go way out of control in the last 30 minutes , reminiscent of some of 80s styled comedies in this film written and directed by Michael Ian Black . Sometimes you wonder what it would like to just take that leap of faith and plunge into deep waters . Our forefathers probably did that with matchmaking being the requisite way in which to find a mate . They had no say and everything's arranged through parents and parental contacts when a suitable age is reached . While in this case it's not matchmaking , but you just wonder if it'll work out should two people eye each other across a crowded room , like who they see on the surface of course , and decide that's it , he / she's the one ? It's a fantasy proposition , but one which becomes key in love at first sight stories . Either that , or the usual courtship route would likely be a journey where flaws surface , and you start to question if you could live with them . Nobody's perfect , but the former way already bound you to an institution , versus a fairly constant probe where you can opt out at any time . While the supporting characters specifically are present to provide laughter , they do somehow epitomize different aspects of relationships . Katie's mom personifies the typical indecisive woman who flits toward who currently can provide her certain advantages , while her real dad ( Joe Pantoliano ) and stepdad provide some laughs with the jokes on the latter seemingly a little culturally insensitive at times . But political correctness usually goes out of the window these days ( unlike those of old ) as it is possibly the quickest way to elicit laughs from an audience , and even sexual deviant acts come courtesy of Anderson's parents . Supporting characters also involve the maligned fiancé of Katie's ( but she didn't say yes too ) , and his finding of his soulmate , best friends of Katie who are into circus tricks , and the very perfect fiancé of Anderson , who would inspire Anderson to have one of the best , honest lines toward the end of the movie , no matter how sappy it sounded , but made a lot of sense . You might think that you've seen a number of similar movies already like What Happens in Vegas and Just Married , but those seemed a little more polished than the raw , indie treatment that is Wedding Daze , where jokes fly rather fast and furious , employing a whole repertoire of methods to deliver its punch lines , from sight gags to my personal preferences of extreme wit in dialogue where you really have to be at attention to catch them all . It might not be a big budgeted movie , but its charm more compensates for everything else .
A Nutshell Review : Alpha Dog	There will come a time where actors and actresses will decide to take on a role that will break the mold of their idoldom , and shed those cute , goody two shoes image for something that could demonstrate and add some depth to their credibility . So taking on more edgy , angst characters might just be their quick solution . Anne Hathaway lost her clothes and borrowed a foul mouth for her turn in Havoc , and Justin Timberlake here lost his coolness but almost always brought sexy back in his scenes , despite having tattoos riddling his toned body , and adopting as foul a mouth as Hathaway's Allison Lang . Nick Cassavetes ' Alpha Dog , the closing film of Sundance 2006 , tells of a true story , with a little mockumentary spin put on . Alpha Dog is like a Beverly Hills 90210 episode gone all wrong , where rich kids spend all their time in vice activities , including smoking weed ( they even grow their own in their backyard ) , guzzling tonnes of alcohol , humping anything that moves , and peppering their vocabulary with expletives . I swear almost every sentence has the F-word in its numerous permutations , showcasing that it is indeed a word for any occasion . And it makes you wonder how much trouble these perpetually high bored kids get into so easily , without using their brains much and constantly shooting from their hips . For every action , there is reaction , and without considering the circumstances and outcome , personal pride , ego , or just blind faith , can bring about a chain of events with outcomes that are inevitable . Johnny Truelove ( up and coming actor Emile Hirsh , who had starred in Lords of Dogtown , and the upcoming Speed Racer as Speed ) and Jake Mazursky ( Angel in X3 ) can't settle their feud over 800 bucks , and bad blood start to spill when boisterous dares under the influence of alcohol become tit for tat revenge . In a mindless spur of the moment retaliation , Jake's brother Zack ( Anton Yelchin , he one who will be Chekov in the new Star Trek movie ) gets bundled into a van , leaving everyone perplexed just what to do next . Timberlake , being an idol , gets to portray his character with pretty much being the best of the worst of them all . Being easy going and the man with the plan , he strikes up a brotherly friendship with Zack , which is possibly the number one rule of kidnapping , never to do . Getting chummy with your prey is always bad karma , and hinders hard decisions made . But for the most parts of the movie , this friendship takes centerstage . But that's not to say the rest of the cast were strolling in the park , as Hirsh was excellent in his role as the crazed , dazed and confused de facto leader Johnny Truelove , with his impulses usually getting the best ( worse ? ) out of him . Looking pretty much like a bearded Leonardo DiCaprio in Blood Diamond and The Departed , there's a little Catch Me If YOu Can spin in the latter half of the story , with unexpected help from Dad ( Bruce Willis , in yet another supporting role ) . There are a number of recognizable faces playing supporting roles here , like Sharon Stone and Dominique Swain ( she has disappeared for a long time ) , but the narrative calls for nothing much from them . Perhaps one of the best scenes was a reminisce of the car ride in Seven , with Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman driving Kevin Spacey , ad he rattles off his motives and rationale behind what he's doing . In the equivalent here , there was a tinge of sadness , and how it played out to the end will no doubt bring about some very mixed emotions , all rolled into one . If there's any moment from the movie that can justify putting a bum in the seat , this will be my justification . Those who can't survive listening to obscenities being rattled off with aplomb , or can't bear to witness their idol mouthing off , should steer clear of Alpha Dog . Otherwise , it offers , like Voice of a Murderer , a Crimewatch like narrative that recounts real events , and of course with certain dramatic license taken .
A Nutshell Review : Chai-Lai Angels	Chai-Lai Angels , as the name implies , is Thailand's version of Charlie's Angels , no doubt about that . They work as undercover secret agents , they have various disguises , they fight criminal organizations , they look good while delivering those high kicks , report to a " Bosley " , the list just goes on . Opening this year's Sawadee Film Festival , this is one action comedy that doesn't take itself too seriously . Filled with plenty of camp , jokes , implausible situations and crazy antics , you'd half expect the Angels to be slick , efficient , and the likes . Not ! I actually found it quite amusing that they turned out more bumbling than effective ! In a 3 beauties and 2 erm , more mature looking ladies fronting the team ( no guesses who came over to Singapore for the press conference ) , Chai-Lai Angels doesn't have too deep a storyline to boast , suffice to know that there's a Japanese household who holds the secret to the location of the Queen of Andaman pearl , which could fetch the bad guys billions of dollars in some black market auction . So it's up to the Angels to thwart this dastardly attempt so that the oceans , nature and the entire ecological system of the world will not be thrown into disarray ( don't ask ) . While they are not too busy fighting criminals , plenty of whom are generic foot soldiers commandeered by a gender-bender working for a characteristically bland villainous chief , they too have time to ponder on love , or the lack thereof . Taking a chip off Charlie's Angels and even Kill Bill ( ! ) , we see familiar wedding scenes , and that gyrating hips sequence ala Cameron Diaz in the former movie mentioned . But bottom line is , it's never easy being in this line , and keeping love interests ( move away guys , we're here to see the girls in action ! ) Some of the set action pieces are quite weakly done , so cheesy that it's laughable , but you'll probably never dismiss them as the girls get to do battle in various garbs0 like wet towels , bikinis and even wet nightgowns . The feminists might go up in arms with this , but hey , this movie's not for them anyway . It's particularly violent for a PG rating , not that I'm complaining though , as almost everyone , ranging from a young girl to a cock-eyed villain , take turns to execute kicks , punches , stabs with plenty of gushing blood , and those bullets in the heads . As mentioned , don't take this movie too seriously , as it almost always threads on fantasy . The male one that is .
A Nutshell Review : Saw III	Jigsaw's back ! But this time the modus operandi is slightly different . In what was a game of pain , life and death , this time round it seems that there's an overconfidence that the unfortunate prey will not get out alive . Hence the death traps being literal . But of course those who have not watched Saw II , will not know the suggestion at the change in MO . In order not to spoil it for you , I shall not mention a word , but hey , even without watching Saw II , there're ample flashback scenes , and newly created ones , to bring you up to speed . But trust me , watching the second film first before this , will help bucket loads , as it picks up directly where the previous film left off , with the return of characters played by Dina Meyer and Donnie Wahlberg . Like the previous movies of the franchise , you have those elaborate devices for those sick games that Jigsaw likes to play with seemingly innocent men and women , chosen for not valuing their lives , and wasting it away . Through such games , Jigsaw's warped aim is , for those who survive , to learn to appreciate life itself . Then again , just how many do survive , since to do so calls for sacrifice , often pain inducing in a massive way in a race against time . However , while the litres of blood continue to flow , the devices and plans here tended to be below par . Sure they're sick , but this time it really stretches it a little . Things happen to fall in place , and well , they just do . There seemed to be a bit of borrowing from Hannibal , with the use of boars ( although dead ones here ) and not since that film had I seen the power drill put to good use , with that unforgettable sound of the spinning drill . That skanky toilet makes a comeback too , and it probably ranks up there with toilets from Trainspotting and Crazy Stone . You can guess the direction of the film's narrative , predicting where it will head , and how , but what you probably can't guess right , is the rationale behind what's happening , the Why , until the answers are revealed at the end . It'll also put to rest some of doubts and queries left hanging at the end of Saw II , and in a certain sense , Saw III wraps up the trilogy . Unless of course there is talk about making another film on the now cult figure Jigsaw , which will have the franchise follow the footsteps of the in-thing to do nowadays - the prequels . While there are new characters introduced , it's kind strange that we do not care much about them , except to silently bet if they would be able to survive their ordeal . Perhaps gore movies are such , that an audience doesn't care what happens to them so long as blood is shed and bones are broken . Perhaps the influx of gore movies , each one trying to outdo the other , makes us just baying for blood to be shed by the characters , and nothing else . So for those who have already watched the first two , this one will bring everything to full circle . And I can't get that all too familiar tune , which is played each time Jigsaw reveals his intentions , out of my head .
A Nutshell Review : The Wedding Game	This was a movie waiting to be made . Celebrity couples don't get any bigger than this pairing in Singapore , so exploiting the real for the reel was something quite expected , given after all the timing , with Christopher Lee and Fann Wong tying the knot sometime later this year . If audiences want a glimpse of what their big day would look like , the many costume changes in bridal gowns and suits here would provide for some teaser anticipation . Like the other local movie offered this holiday season , this too is a Singapore-Malaysia co - production , with a cast from both sides of the Causeway and around the region too , together with Thai support in post production , and with Ekachai Uekrongtham at the helm . Gone are any art-house pretensions , as this one is clearly and shamelessly commercial fare through and through , banking on the stardom of the couple , as well as interjecting the story with plenty of formulaic flavour played out to satisfy those looking for a family friendly film to bring the whole household to . Real life moments did inevitably creep into the story played out purely for laughter , such as that infamous line Fann Wong made about rival Zoe Tay . Since Mediacorp had a hand in this film , spinning off a short reel from Return of the Condor Heroes can proceed without a hitch , where the two lovebirds reportedly met and fell in love in . It tried to provide some lift in its narrative especially when attempting to talk about celebrities having their lives led under constant scrutiny , be it their public persona under the spotlight , or what happens behind closed doors , with the paparazzi being exaggerated loads here . One wonders if their relatively fine performances ( and obvious chemistry ) stemmed from being exactly in the same shoes 24 x 7 . Otherwise , the story's as straightforward as it can get . Jack Fong ( Christopher Lee ) and Vikki Tse ( Fann Wong ) have their agents May ( Alice Lau ) and Tom ( Chen Jian Zhou aka Hei Ren ) to thank for in conceptualizing the PR stunt of the year . Obvious loggerheads with each other , the actors put on their finest performance ( Lee seemed to have his character written such that he's strutting around shirtless a lot ) in convincing the general public of their romance , all this while reaping in the benefits of endorsements to the tune of 6-figure sums . Well , at least that's what Vikki is in for , with the money used to bail her dad's business . As for Jack , his motivation wasn't fleshed out properly , other than to boost his popularity . Much of the story in the first half had both Jack and Vikki put into various situations to reinforce their lie , and there were many situational gags that seem a throwback to Hollywood's What Happened In Vegas , where the protagonists had to move in with each other , to " enjoy " their new found status . What I particularly enjoyed were the moments involving the rather clichéd use of mirrors to echo each character's innermost thoughts . Subplots here include the relationship each agent has with their client , and while things are less complicated for Tom since he's gay , the narrative did dwell a bit with May pining incessantly for Jack . But everything else went out the window when formula dictates that both Jack and Vikki will , through the passage of time , begin to fall for each other for real . There's little adversary here to screw things up , and whatever spanner was thrown into the story , was quickly resolved and brushed aside . Like a wedding video made for the newlyweds , this is like Ekachai's version stuffed full of friends and the industry's who's who in an ode to the couple's ( upcoming ) marital bliss . While you can admire how GV Max and the National Museum , amongst other locales angled into new light , a bunch of blink-and-you-miss cameos also spiced up the fun . See if you can spot the lights of David Glass , Quan Yi Feng , Loo Zihan , Anthony Levi Kho , Zhu Houren , Dennis Chew , and Cassandra See , amongst others . Cicakman Saiful Apek also lent a helping hand , though not as his superhero alter-ego . Lai Ming again was severely underused , if not only to add yet another familiar face to the movie since it's also opening across the Causeway this weekend . And yes , in yet another motherly role . So here's my verdict for the battle of the local movies - The Wedding Game trounces Love Matters convincingly , but only because it stuck to a formula delivering something that was quite plain , but not horrible , and had more convincing performances from the leads right down to the cameo appearances . Still , this only means that the bar has been set really low for other releases this year to stamp their mark of quality . And the real winner here seemed to be New Moon , having its product so prominently featured in both movies .
A Nutshell Review : Aachi and Ssipak	Aachi and Ssipak is a delightfully wicked piece of animation . It's full of fun , and politically incorrect , full of high octane action , and set against a nonsensical background in the future . It's rude , vulgar , and totally unapologetic about it . In the future , humans have learnt how to harness human waste to become rich sources of energy . As a result , the government encourages everyone to defecate and collect their waste to power our world . To reward its population , those who defecate are given juicybars as rewards when they do their business at designated collection points . However , these juicybars ( they look so phallic when being sucked upon ) are addictive , and here you have a black market churned from obtaining and selling these bars . With gangs , one of the most notorious ones called The Diaper Gang , come forth to wreck havoc on the populace , and with the authorities not going to sit back and do nothing , they unleash their cyborg policeman Geko to take them down , violently . And all these happen in the first 5 minutes . Like I said , it moves at breakneck speed , infused with comedy and various pop movie references galore , ranging from Pulp Fiction and the Untouchables to the obvious Robocop , and a sequence taken straight out of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom . If you thought that the Koreans had the most ultra realistic and violent movies in their crime genre , this is also brought over to the animation field , with this movie a showcase just how violent a cartoon can be - heads get shot off constantly , and various dismemberment happen so often , you'll start to want nothing less than a swift violent end for its characters , in particularly the members of the Diaper Gang , who serve as disposable fodder . So where does Aachi and Ssipak fit in you say ? They're small time hoodlums who discover a girl called Beautiful ( whom I thought was anything but ) , who has the capability to defecate and be rewarded bucketloads . As small time hoodlums , they see this as a get rich opportunity , and it becomes like a round robin hide and seek game amongst all the players involved . There are plenty of human waste jokes and references , coupled with tons of swearing and showing of bad signs ( middle finger , thumb in between fingers , the flipping of the forearm , etc ) , and probably served as direct insolence to both the gangsters as well as to the V for Vendetta like fascist government and their polices . If you like your animations vulgar , fun , full of action and violence , then Aachi and Ssipak will be right up your alley .
A Nutshell Review : Hansel & Gretel	I thought I'd foam in the mouth with yet another demonic kid horror movie , given the countless of such genre movies out there which set out to make innocent looking kids harbour plenty of ill intention behind them . But I thought the original Hansel and Gretel fairy tale was quite dark too , especially with the ending . You know , the kids who come to know of this gingerbread house where everything and anything can be eaten to fill their empty stomachs , only to culminate in their stuffing of the owner into a large stove so that they can take possession of the property to live ( and eat ) happily ever after . OK , so if you believe my synopsis of the fairy tale , then you , like me , probably saw what many others don't . Anyway this Korean movie doesn't come close , only remotely in a certain scene , and the borrowing of the English title . The gingerbread house got replaced with a nice looking and inedible cottage in the middle of lush forest , though the amount of artificially coloured food still remains the same . Instead of two kids , we get three , who seem happy on the outside , but inside harbours some deep , dark , and unseen secrets . Until of course the movie decides to explain it all , as expected , in the last 30 minutes to make everything sensible . While the poster might suggest horror , it's more of a thriller with little surprises . We all know that there's always some hideous back story that made the characters who they are currently , and almost always involve some bad episodes in life thus far . This time , it involves adults , and these children begin to develop suspicion of all adults who come into their lives . Pity Eun-Soo ( Cheon Jeong-myeong ) , who got involved in a car accident , and got led by one of the children to live with them in their house . But the family in the Happy Children's Home , don't seem all the bit normal , and soon he discovers that he too seemed trapped within this surreal world with zero communications with the outside world . Heck , even the television's unplugged yet the only programme available is some really sadistic cartoon involving a rabbit and a bear . The story might at first seem very ordinary though bleak , but grew from strength to strength as it went on , nevermind weak attempts at trying to elicit some cheap scares . I thought its basis of a story was strong , even though it did have a very screwed up version of the fairy tale most of us probably already know about . The set designs and art direction were all beautiful to look at , and most times you'll shift your focus to admiring the sets when events start to get repetitive , with Eun-Soo's attempts to get out of the house and the enchanted forest in more than 4 attempts , of course thwarted each time . Supporting characters like the adults who come and go , at first might make you scratch your head , but let that be the least of your worries , because once Santa Claus came visiting , you'll have to suspend your disbelief , otherwise this movie wouldn't work . Hansel and Gretel's a pretty decent thriller , a mix of groundhog-day-ness with the usual trappings of cheap horror movies , boosted though by its rich production values . Themes of wanting to belong and non-reciprocated friendship , together with major trust issues , lift its plain storyline , and all round fine acting by the kids who will at first scare you , and then lead you to want to give them all a hug .
A Nutshell Review : My Best Friend's Girl	Back in 2005 , Will Smith starred as Hitch , the romance doctor who volunteers his service through close referrals , to help luckless and clueless guys woo the woman of their dreams . His consultancy reaps big rewards , and audiences lapped it all up , with the provision of perhaps some pointers that could be put to good use . Now in My Best Friend's Girl , it takes a twist to this Hitch character , and Dane Cook becomes the Anti-Hitch . The objective is slightly different - you should already be hooked up with your lady love , but when the relationship seems to come to a cool off or a standstill , you engage Tank ( Cook ) to be the arsehole who will make your loved one appreciate you a lot more , and get back into your arms . He prides himself with achieving results in 10 steps , and most of the comedy stemmed from his being a total date / dick from hell , and if you're to employ his techniques , then you're likely to earn a reputation for being the biggest arse out there , though sometimes the brashness , directness will also be likely be attractive to those who like to hang out with bad boys . So while Tank does what he does best , his best friend Dustin ( Jason Biggs ) decided to engage his services , in order to help get Alexis ( Kate Hudson ) toward him , by providing some push factors , making her realize that nice guys like him don't come too easy . In the spirit of Murphy where things will go wrong , the rule of thumb will ensure that the helper will fall in love with his / her mark . It sort of reversed some roles here , where the women now subscribe to the philosophy of also sowing their wild oats , before they decide to settle down . For Alexis , she seemed to be missing out on a lot of fun since she rarely goes out on dates , so once convinced , it is at Dustin's expense . Which again puts Jason Biggs into a stereotypical role of a loser who doesn't get any , stemmed from his popularity that went all the way back to American Pie . Kate Hudson continues her role as the ditzy blonde to perfection , and while not exactly a role to showcase her acting chops , she does make a fine on screen couple with Dane Cook , and this show looked tailor made for him . Dane Cook doesn't get a lot of lead roles , but I feel that all that might change real soon given his revelation here . From flicks like Employee of the Month , Dan in Real Life , to Good Luck Chuck opposite Jessica Alba , he seems on track to become a romantic leading man , even though it's on the romantic comedy track . He continues his ladies man role and extends it to here , and with permission by the filmmakers to adlib and improvise his lines , needless to say he steals the spotlight from everyone here , and has room to stretch his acting chops as well . Watch out for some truly hilarious moments in scenes from his character's workplace , where his career as a customer service teleoperator ( also from hell ) just cracked me up . And Alec Baldwin couldn't not be mentioned . Once a leading man of sorts , his career on the big screen gets relegated to support roles , from Elizabethtown to this role here as Tank's dad Professor Turner , who's still an active Casanova made easy when being around young and nubile students , though a character that isn't something not done before , such as Ben Stiller's dad in The Heartbreak Kid . What worked for My Best Friend's Girl is the tussle between the good guy and the bad guy as they pull no punches in wooing the opposite sex . We don't see much of this tussle personified and go up against each other in the same film very often , and here we perhaps get to examine what probably works , and what doesn't , and that whichever school you subscribe to , it's again not about how much you're giving to try and make someone happy , but whether you're giving the right thing that the other party needs .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Ode to Gallantry ( 1982 )	My love affair with classic Shaw Bros martial arts movies continues , and it's a good thing that the Esplanade Library has a decent selection . In continuation of my recent hunt for stories based on Louis Cha's novels , I chanced upon Ode to Gallantry ( Xia Ke Xing ) on the shelves , and despite it being cast with a relative bunch of lesser known names ( of today ) , there's one name on the credits that compelled me to watch this : Director Chang Cheh . My memory of the story dates back to the early 80s , based on the TVB series starring Tony Leung as the lead twin characters Shi Po Tian and Shi Zhong Yu , in a classic tale of mistaken identities . The story begins with Shi Po Tian aka the Bastard , a beggar of sorts , stealing a bun which contains the Black Iron Token , created by skilled pugilist Xie Yanke , who grants the holder one wish , and includes not killing the wielder of the token . As they say , the Heavens smile on the Idiots , and having been caught in the wrong place at the wrong time , Shi Po Tian slowly learns formidable skills while under the tutelage of Xie Yanke . Given that my memory is likely to be faulty , I can't really compare this movie to the original novel , but like all movies based on Louis Cha classics , it's usually a condensation of themes and characters , but unlike The Proud Youth , this movie doesn't overhaul the characters and allow them to undergo name changes . Strong in its theme of Gallantry , embodied by the dim-witted Shi Po Tian , the movie does move along quite fast with little time devoted for depth . Acting chops are nothing spectacular , and as the usual martial arts movies of the time goes , romance takes a backseat , even though you have a female character Dingding Dangdang ( Candy Wen Xue-Er ) having the hots for our lead twin characters , played by Philip Kwok Chun-Fung . But of course the main deal here is the martial arts . There are not many wire work here , and the fights are a combination of weapons and palms , as well as a great deal on evasive techniques , as Shi Po Tian is a reluctant fighter , who sees no rational behind fights and the taking of lives . Expect the usual blood fests from Chang Cheh , reputed for his generous dose of fake blood usage . Like all movies of its genre , the ending is usually weak , as if after the big fight , there's nothing left to do , and no purpose in life , and it ends just there . As mentioned before , the novel is a rich source , but having to translate it for the big screen , can be daunting at times . The crux of it gets a treatment , but the rest got forgotten . Remember though , this was made in the early 80s , so story telling techniques have evolved loads since then . This Code 3 DVD produced by IVL contains the usual extras you expect from their packaging of Shaw Bros classic movies . You have a few production and movie stills , one original poster which is quite small in size , a one page one paragraph worth of production notes , the theatrical trailer and other trailers of the same genre , which have undergone an update ( I doubt they are the original trailers ) , and a very short cast and crew biography . Perhaps the best bit of extras here is a documentary on director Chang Cheh himself , running at 17 mins and 20 secs . It contains interviews with stars of today and yesteryears , as they recount their memories and experiences with working together with the great man who have revived the martial arts genre , and other genres in the Hong Kong movie industry . Definitely not to be missed , though it could have been done with a little bit more detail . For those who have not watched most of Chang Cheh's works , be warned of the loads of spoilers ( character deaths especially ) featured in it . Thankfully too the documentary also comes with English subtitles for those who cannot understand Mandarin / Cantonese , and Mandarin / English subtitles are also available on the feature film , restored decently in the DVD ( you can see how picture quality had degraded in the documentary above ) .
A Nutshell Review : The Road to Guantanamo	Guantanamo Bay has surfaced in the news again , with the apparent suicide of 3 inmates . For the uninitiated , Guantanamo is set up by the US to hold enemy combatants for interrogation , those captured in the War on Terror . But the movie questions , just how exactly effective the interrogation is , or whether perhaps , as per widely held suspicion , that the folks now inside one of the most notorious prisons , are mostly innocent folks caught in the wrong place at the wrong time ? Using the " Tipton Three " as a reference point , and the lead characters , The Road to Guantannamo is part documentary ( using archive footages ) , and part drama , with pseudo - interviews with the trio , coupled with dramatizing the sequence of events from the beginning where they set off from Britain to Pakistan for a wedding , before crossing over the Afghan border , being captured by the Northern Alliance , imprisoned in Kandahar , then shipped to a makeshift Camp X-Ray in Guantanamo , before their final destination at the purpose-built Camp Delta . Throughout the movie , you're constantly reminded that so long as you're not part of the victorious team , you're in for a hell of a ride . It doesn't matter if the Geneva Convention's gonna be followed or not , as both innocent and guilty parties are subjected to the same treatment . You'll witness first hand the treatment of prisoners , starting with the capture by the Northern Alliance , packing them into containers , and firing at it for light and air . Caught by the bullet ? Too bad . And it doesn't get any better in the hands of the American troops as well . Granted , they're prisoners , but it'll call to question certain tactics used for torture , and also the constant state of bewilderment that the prisoners are subjected to . The movie documents well-known incidents like the disallowing of prayers , of the using of dogs to cajole the detainees into submission , and the worse of all , the mistreatment of the Holy Book and the flushing of it down the toilet . It demonstrates again the lack of respect and understanding of the captors over the captives , and such ignorance in no way will win any hearts or minds over to their cause , questionable to begin with . Having the upper hand , and yes , their prisoners , doesn't mean lack of basic respect . Maybe that's just me . And it's just plain ridiculous to see the red tape process they have over the transportation of unarmed prisoners from their cell to the interrogation office - with the masking , kneeling , lying faced away , hands on the head , cuffs , and being dragged , all this while with someone pointing a machine gun . Talk about using a bull knife to kill a chicken . Perhaps the scenes which highlights the deceit , lies or just dumb intelligence gathering on the part of the CIA , military intelligence and various other intelligence groups like the MI5 were the best bits . These tactics of guile are outdated , and rings of amateurish attempts to weed information out of the detainees . It's a powerful movie , which at the end of it , will just provoke sentiments in the audience to question the effectiveness of the prison , the tactics used , and probably fan the flames of those who are actively seeking to close it .
A Nutshell Review : I Am Legend	Out of curiosity I went to look up Will Smith's filmography , and realized that since Michael Bay's Bad Boys in 1995 , he had averaged just one movie a year , most of them being box office successes save for blips like Wild Wild West , and in films spanning a wide genre from biopics to romantic comedy to action and drama . Today his name alone on the marquee can open a movie , and I Am Legend is probably a true test of that drawing power , because for the most parts , his Robert Neville is the last man on Earth . This film is the third to have been produced for the big screen , based on the novel of the same name by Richard Matheson . I haven't watched The Omega Man which starred Charlton Heston , but from what I've read , it's a somewhat wide departure from the source material . The Last Man on Earth , starring Vincent Price , was entertaining ( available at the Internet Archive ) and given that we're looking at it in retrospect , was told in a rather straightforward and simple manner . Will Smith's vehicle , will no doubt be updated with plenty of special effects , and getting those road closures for down town Manhattan is by no means an easy feat in itself . I've no idea why the tagline had to say " the last man on earth is not alone " , and in the poster had Smith slinging a mean rifle over a shoulder , with a German shepherd at his heel . With man's best friend as company , how can any man be alone ? Technically yes , but then his pet dog provides an avenue to keep one's sanity - any interaction that provides feedback of sorts , doesn't put you in isolation ala Tom Hanks in Castaway . And being stuck in a big city in Manhattan does have its perks , in terms of food , shelter and of course , entertainment . Of late , monster movies with the likes of the recent 28 Days / Weeks series , and in 30 Days of Night , point to an interesting observation - that we like our monsters smart , vicious and fast . In The Last Man on Earth , Vincent Price had to do battle with plodding creatures of low IQ , which formed the basis of George A Romero's walking undead . Here , the creatures bring forth a few same-old concepts , from being created by a virus ( Resident Evil series , 28 Days / Weeks probably taken a leaf from I Am Legend the book ) , filled them with crazed rage , move fast and are incredibly smart - they adapt and learn . However they fail to interest in creature designs , having look like leftovers from The Mummy franchise . Action sequences are few and far between , which ringed back to an earlier Smith movie I , Robot , but credit has got to go to I Am Legend for deftly crafting moments of intense fear and dreadful anticipation , like the sequence in the warehouse . But everything else was a chip off something else , like The Hulk's raging doggies , and with Robert Neville taking a leaf out of Sylvester Stallone's The Specialist in tactical defending , which I liked to believe his character had learned from one of his routine DVD rentals . There's even one more reference that I will choose not to quote , as it's too close to revealing how the ending turned out to be , which I felt was a little of a cop out , as the filmmakers probably had a problem in deciding how best to end this , in an honourable way befitting an A-List Hollywood star . The backstory to Neville's predicament , as an update to the original movie's explanation on the situation , brings forth a warning to those wanting to play god . Sometimes the intentions are good , but like all potential miracle cures , these have to be tested thoroughly rather than be excited over them , or worse , having those with side effects covered up . Don't expect too much of those flashbacks , like The Last Man on Earth's , they're kept short and succinct , and most of it is unfortunately in the trailer . An added plus into this version , is the lack of a dreadful need to repeat its stuff to remind audiences of Neville's routine of eat-play-send signals-find cure-find food etc , and juxtaposed time quite nicely so that it's not simply just a dawn-to-dusk day-in-the-life-of account . Directed by Francis Lawrence who brought us the big screen adaptation of Constantine , I Am Legend continues to serve as a staple for that year end big budgeted blockbuster , and in most counts , I Am Legend works , plainly because of Will Smith's charisma , and that German shepherd's company .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Pi ( 1998 )	Darren Aronofsky shot to prominence with this relatively low budgeted movie which looks like it has a million dollars ploughed into its production . It's inspiring to see how this black and white film dwells on science fiction so effortlessly , given its very simple plot . Long time Aronofsky collaborator Sean Gullette plays Max Cohen , a mathematician who's looking for patterns amidst chaos . He is determined to predict and look for patterns in stock markets , and comes dangerously close to a solution until his computer Euclid , breaks down . During his quest to uncover and recover what Euclid produced before it broke down , he comes across a religious Kabbalah cult , as well as a pesky banker , who is more than meets the eye . Those with a slight interest in mathematics might also get a kick out of watching how maths can feature and get filmed stylistically in a film like this . Like the Fibbonacci sequence , and how the Kabbalah texts can be represented by numbers . Some numerology also makes its way into the narrative . It's interesting to note how a simple story is able to accommodate these various subplots with ease , and how they all are brought together to make it visually arresting . The cast is relatively small , and much hinges on Gullette's portrayal as a lonely , and sick man who's bordering on the edge of madness ( don't most geniuses ? ) . Most of the supporting characters are played by family and friend \ s of the filmmakers too . Accompanied by a great soundtrack , this Code 1 DVD also comes with plenty of extras , like deleted scenes , separate audio commentaries by Aronofsky and Gullette , production notes , trailers and a music video . It is substance combined with style .
A Nutshell Review : Trivial Matters	After watching Pang Ho-cheung's Trivial Matters , the stark reminders I have been keeping in view have now gone into red alert , that I've been missing plenty from this Hong Kong director , and I should really take some time off to plough through his filmography to date . Containing a series of 7 shorts that cover a spectrum of genres dealing with love , sex and death , one could only imagine the number of entertaining stories that are brewing within Pang's head , being a writer-director to look out for , as well as his clout in rounding up plenty of stars to take up roles in this collection of shorts . Perhaps too I was naïve to think that both Edison Chen and Gillian Chung would be sharing the same screen pre-scandal days , as they have roles in different shorts instead . Civisim is the shortest of the stories here , and I thought he might as well be playing himself , speaking in English and trying to impress a beautiful girl in a disco about his active role in civic responsibility , which I'm sure some of us guys would probably partake in ( which involves pee and manure ) , but to brag about it , who knows ? Chapman To , who also serves as producer for this movie , plays a character mimicking himself when talking to Eason Chan for a role in what would be It's a Festival Today . But in the short Recharge , Pang again weaves a sensitive tale for Chapman's character , about a man who shares a moment of compassion with a prostitute , despite what would prove to be a scare at first , and whether it's possible to be disconnected between sex and genuine concern for a fellow human being . Simple and sweet , somehow . Eason stars in one of the two longest shorts in the film . In It's a Festival Today , his Fu has started a one-month long relationship with Wai Ying ( Chan Yat Ning ) and they have begun to cohabit . But Wai Ying refuses to get intimate with Fu , making him miserable and constantly pining like a puppy dog to want to get it on with his girl . It's an outright comedy thanks to Eason's hilarious take as a desperado , in how he finally convinced and cultivates Wai Ying's agreement to provide oral sex , but the payload ( pardon the pun ) comes toward the end with a very stark but effective change in genre from comedy . Definitely one of my favourites , and I thought Eason was probably having a field day with this role , going from constant frustration to finding bliss . The other longer short was Ah Wai the Big Head staring Gillian Chung as the titular character , and Stephy Tang as Kate , two friends from schooldays , with the former treating the latter as her best friend , but with the latter thinking that Ah Wai is an emotional leech , and often dispenses any advice that would get her off her back . Encouraging her to go for Eagle ( Juno Mak ) , a tattooed garage repairman , this short traces the parallel lives and differing fortunes that both girls would experience , against a backdrop of famous singer Danny Chan songs . I'm pretty sure you could identify with one or the other characters here in their motivation and intent , and it's a reminder about karma as well , that what goes around comes around , so you'd better not harbour any ill-feelings toward anyone else ! Junior is actually a two-act short , the first with Chinese director Feng Xiaogang lending his support as a Customer Relations Officer for a professional hit-man outfit , where their company starts to offer some outrageous promotions , which involve an apprenticeship programme for new hit men who can chalk training hours each time key clients utliize their free-kills coupon . Shawn Yue then takes over the film as one of such rookies , and I'd like to think that it was a statement about how young employees these days don't take their career too seriously , and despite lip service paid on how professional they are , when it comes to the crunch it's anything else but . Probably the weirdest short would be Tak Nga which is a sort of science fiction tale narrated by Patrick Tam about how the present 4715AD world had inherited its name , which stemmed from NASA having to auction off its planet naming to enterprises , and the magazine Easy Finder being convinced by schoolboy Ah Chi ( Kenny Kwan ) to name it after his love Tak Nga ( Angela Baby ) . Nothing too special about this short , except for the visual effects and the sepia tones in accounting this little love story about the lengths a boy would go to surprise the girl he fancies . And of course , this movie started off with a big bang with Vis Major , where a middle-aged couple talks about the different expectations about their love and sex life , through a very novel narrative structure , cutting from talking heads documentary to fantasy segments , and the very famous picture that you see here when the man compared the reaction of his wife during sex as one of a dead frog . Genuinely hilarious and riotously vulgar , this is one no holds barred exploration of the breakdown in communication in bed , leading to dire consequences for those suffering from it . By the way , watching this Hong Kong movie in Cantonese was nothing but pure unadulterated bliss . Given the subject nature , I doubt it would make its way back to our shores , and even if it does ( with a highest rating possible ) , having it dubbed intco Mandarin just loses its charm in the language . But in any case , do watch this if you can , for some simple , effective and entertaining stories !
A Nutshell Review : Dan in Real Life	Comedian Steve Carell burst into mainstream prominence as the world's best know 40 Year Old Virgin , and popularity grew with his The Office US series . But a quick blip on the radar with Evan Almighty made us wonder if he will be able to sustain a series of successes given what I think is a dearth of funny comedians to hit the big screen of late - output seemed to have slowed a bit from the likes of Mike Myers , Ben Stiller ( The Heartbreak Kid was not exactly really funny ) , Will Farell and even Jim Carrey , with whom Carell will be collaborating with in an animated feature in next year's Dr Horton Hears a Who . I thought Dan in Real Life followed the Adam Sandler route with having to star in this year's equivalent of the latter's Spanglish , and does show that Carell the funnyman has some dramatic acting chops in him to commandeer this movie on his shoulders . Like Sandler , he has this everyday man appeal without the need for any hint of exaggeration , and this chummy buddy persona that makes him quite likable . Steve Carell plays Dan the columnist who dispenses parenting advice in his newspaper column Dan in Real Life , where a routine day of the widower involves providing email counselling to his readers , and being the overprotective father to his three young daughters Jane , Cara and Lilly . Clearly while his love for them shows , his daddy nature goes overboard with not being convinced that one of them is old enough to drive under supervision , and another whose boyfriend and teenage puppy love infatuation stage he frowns upon . From the onset , his relationship with his daughters look set to improve given time out for an extended family get together in an out of town retreat , but as all romantic comedy dictates , he will meet a special somebody which will prove to be his undoing . Well , not in a bad way of course . Sometimes when you think about it , the concept of the perfect soulmate does reside in timing . You might think that you've met that special someone , but the timing somehow just isn't right , and naturally things do not work out , even though you think that it might ( who plans for a breakup from the start anyway ? ) Watching how smooth Dan is , his mark Ann Marie ( Juliette Binoche , whom we last saw on screen opposite Jude Law in Breaking and Entering ) spends an afternoon with Dan chatting ( with the camera lingering at all angles imagined possible ) , and find that they click . Just like that . However , herein lies the complication , as it turns out , Marie is the girlfriend of Dan's brother Mitch ( Good Luck Chuck himself ) , whom he brought along to introduce to all and sundry . So now the question is , do you pretend that that spark of chemistry never existed , or like Mitch himself put it , so long as there's no rock on the finger , it's fair game ? Here's where the fun in the movie comes in , with both parties trying to decide whether to tell , or play pretend amongst family members ? And does each party think whether it's love , or just a passing stage of infatuation ? The movie poses a number of questions , some of which the answers are fairly clear , depending on the values you subscribe to . But in pondering and reacting in a relatively childish manner , Dan does himself no favours , as he slowly slips into a mode of hypocrisy , becoming what he tells his daughters not to , and breaking almost all the rules he lays down for them . Dan in Real Life serves up more dramatic moments with a focus on romance , rather than being an outright comedy . So for Carell fans who think that it's gonna be laugh a minute , think again . The ensemble cast playing the supporting roles of the extended family members are fun , but truth is there's so many of them that each get very little screen time . However , this is still a very charming movie about love , parental-child unconditional love , and an exhibition of the axiom that blood is indeed thicker than water . Farell and Binoche share top notch chemistry as a couple with secrets hidden between themselves , and their constant playing of games is a delight to watch . One of my favourite scenes involve a 4-way interaction at a diner that hit all the right notes , and another an insane and totally politically incorrect song involving pigs . It's ultimately a feel good movie , so don't expect proceedings to go in too heavy and deep , as it skirts around the subplots it creates decently , with little surprises , playing out just like one will almost expect it to be . Given it's runtime , there are obvious scenes from the trailer that is left unused , which would probably appear in the DVD release . For Carell fans , and fans of family dramas with a dash of romance , this one comes recommended . And here's THE song in the movie , as performed by Carell and Dane Cook . Will surely open the floodgates for sentimental folks when you hear their rendition !
A Nutshell Review : Malaysian Gods	During the mini-seminar session , Amir mentioned that Malaysian Gods had been passed without cuts back home , but also not permitted to be publicly screened . It's no surprise to this as he admitted , given the buzz the authorities had unwittingly created because of their banning of his previous film The Last Communist . Hence the situation this film is now in . But as usual , from watching this across the Causeway , one wonders if political / politics-related films which might see the respective authorities on either side frown upon , would find an audience at the other side given a piqued interest , as well as hey , it's not talking about us here so we're cool about it ? Strategy-wise , Malaysian Gods had adopted the same approach as Amir's earlier movies like The Last Communist and Village People Radio Show , which consists of visiting the actual sites where the movement had occurred , and interviewing people in talking heads fashion in a more natural setting . There's a slight departure here though , where interviews are not with figures directly involved in the events presented , perhaps not wanting to ruffle any current feathers since it might inevitably be sensitive with the major players on all sides still being around . What we have instead is a documentary told in chapters commemorating the 10 years since the Reformasi movement began in 1998 starting with the protests led by Anwar Ibrahim after his sacking from his Deputy Prime Minister post . For non history buffs , the documentary provides some insights that began from the past , and had its eye firmly focused on the 8 % of the Malaysian population who are ethnic Indians with Tamil as the common language between them . Told in chapters , the film plays out like reading a history book , with inter-titles cluing you in on specific historical events , before bringing you back to its present day location , and conducting interviews with some everyday folks . The narrative moved from place to place where significant events had happened , and interviewing what could probably be the most colourful character the filmmakers could find in the vicinity , such as the kacang ( nuts ) seller , contractors , salesmen , cinema operators , and your man on the street who just happens to be out on a date . In terms of venue , we get to see prominent landmarks like the National Palace , the KLCC park , the Chinese Assembly Hall , KL's oldest Tamil cinema , and it goes right down to the simple barber shop right around the corner . While it might seem quite random in picking off people from the streets and talking to them , there's a method in that when asked some pointed questions about the location's significance , or whether the interviewee had been involved in those events in one way or another , there are a few interesting nuggets of the human psyche which unfolds . I guess in today's economic climate , everyone's more concerned with their personal rice bowl issues , and can only remember things that hit closer to home rather than mass protests or demonstrations which seem like a disruption to economical pursuits . Either that , or they are personally guarded from freely discussing those issues since a video camera is pointed in their direction . However , you can see that while everyone has their own issues to air , those of the older generation tend to be more reserved and afraid of repercussions , compared to the younger generation who are not afraid to discuss them quite directly and speak their minds on things they feel are going against them , such as the education system . I suppose when push comes to shove , they are more than willing to express themselves than to continue keeping quiet , and this in itself perhaps gave way to a representation of what we've been seeing in the political climate up north , with some drastic changes to the landscape already made . The film is never dry , and is rife with wry humour throughout in true Amir fashion . Against the backdrop of a downfall of a leader and the rise of his party and movement , one can find some rib-tickling moments either from the interview subjects themselves , or from the subtitles which you have to pay some attention to , as illustrations pop up like easter eggs , and you have to look quite closely for things like skewed logos . Or a shot of a car I found quite amusing as the driver clearly violated traffic flow direction , and found himself turning into the Traffic Police HQ . If you've enjoyed Amir's previous works like The Last Communist , and Village People Radio Show , then grab any opportunity you can get to watch his latest film , before he embarks on an announced film-making hiatus .
A Nutshell Review : The Da Vinci Code	This movie is becoming as controversial as the book . Since the day it was announced that it's gonna be made , there were protests against it being done , and it has escalated to calls for boycotting , or banning the movie altogether . I'll not waste time and go into its controversies , nor discuss what's real and what's not . Neither will I explain in detail the plot , as I believe most of you readers would already have some vague idea of what it's about , or have read the book , since it's on the bestsellers list for months . Rather , I'll evaluate the movie as it is , on how well it entertains . Those who wish to preach in my comment box , prepare to have those comments deleted , at my discretion . This is the stand I shall take , that this movie is entirely fictional , based on events which are used loosely , for the sole purpose of weaving a storyline that tries to be believable . I think some have already mentioned it's too successful in doing that , and may mislead people into thinking its theories presented , are real . However , don't take it too seriously , and if you wish to , use another proper platform to debunk the myths , not my movie review blog . The structure of the movie , is exactly the same as the book . There is no change to the ending , despite some rumours that it will be different . Naturally , some of the detailed explanation that's given in the book , especially many three-way dialogue between Sophie - Robert-Leigh , have to be summarized in order to pace this movie into 2 hours . Herein lies the challenges . For those who've read the book , the movie offers nothing new , other than the gratification of watching events and characters play out on the big screen . For those who haven't read the book , the movie version should be decent enough to make you want to pick up the novel and read more into the controversial theories explained . However , having being familiar with the plot and how the story unfolds , red herrings , character motivations , twists and all , it may leave those who've read the novel , a page-turner in every sense of the word , a bit wanting , that the pace could've been improved . Undoubtedly the pacing sags when it's time for some dialogue heavy moments , but I suppose that is unavoidable when you're revisiting material . However , its presentation of these controversial dialogue moments coupled with special effects , that will make you go wow . Truly , the technique is nothing original , and some of the visuals used looked like Return of the King and Kingdom of Heaven rejects , but as a whole , combined with the narrative , it helps to present the controversies in a more palatable manner . Casting , I felt , was spot on . Tom Hanks makes Robert Langdon pretty accessible , given Hanks ' everyman demeanor , and Audrey Tautou makes a believable Sophie Neveu . Ian McKellen , probably THE actor with 2 summer blockbusters back to back ( the other being X - Men 3 ) , is convincing as the rich grail hunter Sir Leigh Teabing . Paul Bettany is chilling as the albino killer Silas , and Jean Reno and Alfred Molina round up the star studded cast as the detective Captain Fache and Bishop Aringarosa . Much is said about the haunting soundtrack , but as far as I'm aware , there's nothing scary about it . Silas , in his scene of self-cleansing , is horrid enough though , as are some scenes of unexpected on screen violence that hit like a sack of potatoes falling from the sky . In the end , in spite of all the controversies , perhaps Robert Langdon's line is poignant - if given a chance , would you rather destroy faith , or renew it ? The book and the movie have provided an opportunity for the faith to renew itself , to debunk the myths and theories ( which were developed loosely to make the story flow of course ) , and to generally point the curious to the direction and light the faith wants to show . Otherwise , this Ron Howard movie makes a good summer popcorn flick , with the usual thrills and spills you'd come to expect with its superb production values .
A Nutshell Review : Love and Honor	Love and Honor is the concluding chapter to director Yoji Yamada's loose samurai trilogy . Personally , I have enjoyed the other two , Twilight Samurai and The Hidden Blade , because they are extremely well made , and have important stories to tell , rather than focusing its energies onto huge action sets with plenty of sword wielding , and Love and Honor is no different . Shinnojo Mimura ( Takuya Kimura ) is a lowly Japanese samurai , who's employed by his clan as a food taster . It's a dead end job with zero job satisfaction , and Shinnojo reveals in a conversation with his wife Kayo ( Rei Dan ) that he dreams of opening up a kendo dojo of his own , and recruiting students to teach regardless of their caste . It's a noble dream , but one that is cut short when he gets blinded during one of the food tasting sessions , eating sashimi made from fish which is poisonous when out of season . Like its title suggests , Love and Honor is an intense love story based on those two themes . With Shinnojo handicapped , fears are abound within the family that without a job , they will lose their status and material wealth . And Shinnojo's growing negative attitude toward life doesn't help either . Stress befalls Kayo , and on the ill advice of her aunt , she seeks to find a powerful samurai Shimada ( Mitsugoro Bando ) to help them out of their plight . No man enjoys his wife having to bring home the bacon on his behalf , especially not when it involves favours with another man who's vastly superior , not in feudal Japan . It's an interesting character study into the 3 characters , of love , defending of honor , envy , jealousy . And it all comes to an end in what I thought was a very touching finale . As mentioned , don't anticipate any sword fighting action to be a huge spectacle . Rather , the one here seemed to be rather rooted with realism . When it boiled down to the sword , every slash , parry , thrust seemed made with measurable consideration , with forceful purpose . Given Shinnojo's blindness , don't expect Zaitochi styled super-samurai feats , and in fact , Shinnojo's struggles are more to do with things from within . Takuya Kimura , whom I last seen in 2046 , has aged for this role . He looked mature and pretty much left his pretty boy days quite far behind to bring certain gravitas to his character . Rei Dan in a debut is on par with the recognizable female leads in the previous trilogy movies , and is excellent too in her role as like the other female characters , and a memorable one too . And not all's bleak in the movie , with Takashi Sasano's servant character Tokuhei bringing about some light hearted moments with his earnestness and wit . Samurai movies have been possibly enriched by Yoji Yamada's trilogy contribution , and Love and Honor triumphs slightly over its predecessors to bring the series into a fitting close . Recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Shine a Light	The Rolling Stones was here for a concert not too long ago , but since tickets were priced way out of my league , there was no way I could have seen them in action live unless I opted for the cheapest of the lot and sat well away from the stage . So I got to thank Martin Scorsese for having design and capture some definitive moments from a Rolling Stones performance , and share that stage magic the quartet provide when they're at their element , on a celluloid screen , captured for posterity . Make no mistake , the entire movie is just like being there at a Rolling Stones concert , only that you'll have to ensure the cinema hall has great sound system installed , and you can't actually smell the sweat the rockers exude , even though you get to go really up close and personal during their performance , something which even the standing-only front row pit will not allow . You can even throw your hands up in the air only to irk those seated behind you , unless they and everyone else are game enough to turn the sedate cinema atmosphere into a party one . So this review ( if I can call it one ) largely depends on whether you're a Stones fan to appreciate , or for non-fans to want to give them a go , to kick back , relax ( if you can ) or just soak in the rollickingly wild atmosphere and immerse yourself into a Rolling Stones experience . More than 20 songs were performed ( if my mental counter serves me right ) , and for a Rolling Stones fan , you'll likely be satisfied them all for the price that you fork out . For a simple fleeting fan like me , it's an eye ( ear ? ) opener to a lot more of their music , as well as an opportunity to watch them in action on the cheap . The first 10 minutes or so was the setup , with Scorsese worrying and fussing over how to film the Stones in action , and to want to have their set of songs as early as possible so that he could plan certain shots . But of course Mick Jagger and the gang got other ideas , as they flit from performance to performance during their " A Bigger Bang " tour , only to connect physically with Scorsese when they're at the designated performance stop at the Beacon theatre for the Clinton Foundation - where you'll get to see how big a fan Bill and Hillary are , together with their 30 strong entourage . Interspersed throughout the concert performance are plenty of vignettes culled from past interviews spanning from the 60s , which will bring on some laughter as you watch them with perfect hindsight . You will get to see how youthful all of them looked when they first started out , and be amazed at their longevity in this business where bands come and go after making it to the top , if at all . Despite being grand-daddies , Mick Jagger , Keith Richards , Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts still look in great physical condition to be touring and strutting their stuff , dishing out high energy , high performance concerts , with Watts even cheekily feinting tiredness at a point . In fact , none of them thought earnestly thought , back in their youths , that they will sustain their popularity , or would have reasons for it , except perhaps Jagger himself who jested that he had dreamt about rocking the stage into his 60s . Shine a Light doesn't break any new cinematic ground , even though it has cameras almost everywhere in a concert hall to capture every aspect and angle of the performing stage . In fact , despite Scorsese making appearances in front of the camera , his work behind it , with all due respect , could be replaced with any other director , and the outcome would probably be more or less the same , only because of the fact that it is a Rolling Stones concert with the band holding court from start to end . Would have been more of a blast to be able to see this in the IMAX version though .
A Nutshell Review : Dragon Hunters	My first impression would be this is Beowulf only with all the good bits of fighting Grendel and dragons intact , making it one thrill ride from start to end . Written by Frederic Lanoir and Arthur Qwak , the two of them had created a fantastical landscape that becomes a character in itself within their story , with its ever changing environment made up of small spheres of land floating around , which can either be wastelands , or globes of greenery . The story's a simple one , which tells of a land which is cowering in the expectation of a mighty dragon's unwanted visit to plunder and destroy , and the resident knights have all but been annihilated . Enter the king's granddaughter Zoe ( Marie Drion ) who gathers Lian-Chu ( Vincent Lindon ) , a huge brute with immense strength but truly a gentle giant , and his partner-in-arms Gwizdo ( Patrick Timsit ) , who balances the partnership with his cunning brain . Lian-Chu and Gwizdo ( together with their pet creature which too proudly spews incipient fires ) share a common dream of owning a farm land and spending idyllic days tending to their farm animals in retirement , but in order to do that comes the requirement of being financially free , hence their career in monster-extermination which doesn't exactly pay off . That's basically the whole gist of it , but what makes this film a spectacle , is its CG graphics , which is solidly rich , detailed , and an eye-popping marvel to behold . It has some wonderfully crafted set action pieces that were painstakingly designed to draw you into the thick of the action , , and during those fight sequences , there's nary a boring moment . Photo-realistic moments of non-existent landscapes make you put aside the fantasy of make-belief , and it's easy to be in awe of the landscape which goes beyond the usual three-suns and a kaleidoscope of flying thingamajigs ( here's having at you George ! ) And I couldn't get enough of the finale battle as well , though the usual brick-bats will find some fault at the indestructibility of the principle characters . I guess this film had opened my eyes that there are many more computer-animated companies out there around the world that have quality in their product to match that of Pixar's . And this is definitely a movie that the local filmmakers of Zodiac : The Race Begins and Legend of the Sea can learn from ? to keep the story effectively simple , and let your moving artwork do all the talking . Definitely highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : The Duchess	The trailers had tried to market this as drawing some parallels to the late Princess of Wales Diana Spencer's life , given the subject matter being a lady of royal lineage being subjected to a loveless marriage which comes complete with affairs and scandals . It had even superimposed her portrait on the trailer to suggest a deja-vu of history , given that the story here is based on real people and presenting a dramatized snapshot of their lives . Until of course Keira Knightley had to stand up and say that this movie tells its own story without the need for such cheap promotional gimmick . But frankly , the life of the Georgina , Duchesss of Devonshire ( Keira Knightley ) in late 18th century England , couldn't be anything less than similar in certain ways , if based on Amanda Foreman's biography which formed the basis for the film . At a young age and to the delight of her mother ( Charlotte Rampling ) , the Duke of Devonshire ( Ralph Fiennes ) proposes a sealing of families through marriage , where his sole concern is to have a male heir . He wastes no time in impregnating his young wife , and treats her nothing more than a baby - producing factory , given a girl baby after girl baby , in addition to stillborns and miscarriages . It's also a sign of the times where women have no rights , and are expected to perform their duty , of being a wife and mother , which also translates to having no say to what their husbands are doing . For the Duke , it means spending a lot more time with his dogs with no effort in communicating with a factory worker , and being the sex addict that he is , takes pleasure in bedding chambermaids within his castle , or even the Duchess ' good friend Bess Foster ( Hayley Atwell ) , who succumbs to trading her body for powerful influences in order to see her children , taken away by her estranged husband . As with most period dramas , it's a tussle between duty and love , and affairs of the heart . While the Duke's dalliances have taken a toil on his marriage , given that the Duchess one headstrong woman , we slowly see her relent and slide into resignation of her fate , but not before trying to perform a tit-for-tat with her lover , future Prime Minister Charles Grey . From the slate of movies in the period drama genre , it seems that such stories are becoming quite popular to be translated to the big screen , and I recall Sofia Coppola's Marie Antoinette , who was betrothed in similar circumstances just across the English Channel . Keira Knightley stars in yet another period drama , and she's quite an old hand at it already , which no doubt translates to her delivering her best performance thus far in the genre . She presents the pain of living a lie quite convincingly , having to put on a front in public , while behind the scenes get surprise after surprise at the revelation of her husband's true character . Ralph Fiennes seemed to be quite stoic this time round with nary an emotion , and given he is Voldermott , has no difficulty in playing the bastard of a character , using his influence and power for his personal gratitude , making no negotiations to wanting things his way . In fact , one wonders men in high positions back then , could get away with a lot of things , and their wield of influence no doubt carries a lot of weight . The Duchess doesn't present its themes in depth , and sought instead to have breadth in covering a broad range of topics , from social standing to England during the cusp of elections , and while it certainly has no lack of material to last its run time , it certainly hinges on its big name stars to carry the film on their collective shoulders . It's a very straight forward film , like watching the life and times of someone unfold in chronology , and those looking for some satisfying , compelling drama with deep tussles involving heart and soul , might want to look elsewhere instead . Nothing fancy here , but it works .
A Nutshell Review : The Kingdom	There are a number of hits , and expected misses to some though , and you can expect to be fairly clear where those misses are . For example , one will certainly frown at the USofA being yet again trumpeting their expertise and imposing their will on cultures vastly different , or worse , frowning upon the need to go in with guns ablazing , although granted , they didn't shoot first . Some might also want to find fault with the number of clichés commonly found in cop dramas , with policemen from the two countries finding themselves in a clash of culture from the lack of understanding , to finding common ground and similarities through , what else , American pop culture . But of course it is almost without a doubt which culture is slowly influencing which , and there's some really well placed irony with cyclic violent attitudes each side has for the other . And this is one violent film , not that I'm wincing from it . It tries to be as realistic as possible in the deadly deeds of the terrorists , and that includes random drive by shootings , suicide bombers , vehicle bombs , kidnappings , beheadings , you name it , The Kingdom covers it all , showcasing the common modus operandi terrorist group adopt in their violent agenda , all performed with meticulous planning . I've no doubt if this picture is given the 3D treatment just as Beowulf was , you'd find yourself knee deep in a perpetual war zone , and ducking at your seat each time some explosion happens in your face . Which brings me to the one of the plus points of The Kingdom . While not being an advocate of violence , sometimes you have to dish out eye for an eye , tooth for a tooth when you run out of options , especially when dealing with adversary who don't negotiate and only answer to the law of the gun . And The Kingdom really gets down to the quick and dirty when it calls for killing with extreme prejudice , some scenes which you will do a double take at with its realism . I recall Heat having an excellent urban shootout , and the one in The Kingdom could give it a run for its money . But there is no doubt some repetitive action sequence of non-stop shooting in the veins of Black Hawk Down ( remember those pesky RPGs ? ) does make it seem a little lazy , especially when you have masked up goons taking potshots from every conceivable street corner , that it becomes too much like a video game . Those who find no peace with the " unsteadicam " , will naturally hate the way the movie is filmed , with the constantly shaking camera that , coupled with the rapid fire pace of editing , will induce some nauseating feeling to those with low tolerance to bouncing cameras . But I thought that the narrative justified the use of this technique though , with the characters constantly peering over their shoulders , being in hostile territory without knowing who to trust your life with , and without doubt , a now frequently adopted technique for filming " realisitc " action , whether you like it or not . Jamie Foxx has cut his teeth with ( para ) military roles before in movies like Stealth and Jarhead , and here , he revisits Saudi Arabia as FBI special agent Ronald Fluery , who has assembled his own renegade team of agents to investigate into the suicide bombing and killings of American citizens living within a safe protected zone . We have Chris Cooper's ( again a return to The Kingdom from his Jarhead days ) bomb expert Grant Sykes who's stuck deep in mud , Jason Bateman as IT specialist Adam Leavitt , and the token female around to present challenges to customs and tradition , Jenn ifer Garner's forensic specialist Janet Mayes . Naturally in the hunt for those responsible for the attacks , they go up against protocol and culture , in the form of their host Colonel Faris Al Ghazi ( Ashraf Barhom , who himself played a terrorist in Paradise Now ) . But the movie does cast some sympathetic light on Faris , and in a broad stroke , the Saudi Arabians as well , being caught in a situation that they'd prefer not to be in if given a choice . So while it's Follow the Law for some , it's time for the Americans to break certain taboos and persuade their new friends through respect , to allow them to go all the way in their investigations , with a trade off for teaching them a thing or two in Crime Scene Investigations . There are moments where Royalty is shown to be slightly inept though , with interest only to shore up good press and publicity for themselves , and the feud between the police and the National Guard , at first being ramped up , then totally forgotten when it comes to the crunch - yep , the conveniently forgotten backup firepower to call upon . But you can't deny some scenes which stick to the back of your head , like armoured SUVs cruising the highways at top speed , with an Apache shadowing overhead . At certain points , the narrative lapses into teasing the possibilities of expanding the movie into a commentary on the politicking back home on US soil , with agencies at loggerheads with one another , ultimately not getting things done when at a stalemate ( hence needing mavericks to have a go at it ) . It seemed to want to suggest that action should be taken promptly without dragging one's feet to suck up to politicians , but the screen time didn't allow for anything other than a cursory mention at such themes . But the first few minutes more than won me over . Yes , having an opening that arrests my attention more than does it for me , with its slick documentary feel and animation which provided a quick history of The Kingdom , from the time of its founding to the current climate , and that alone , is well worth the ticket price , every penny of it .
A Nutshell Review : RE	REC has been making its rounds in the festival and cinema circuit , while us folks here have to sit around and twiddle our thumbs , wondering if it'll ever make it to our shores . Hollywood reckoned it was worthy of a remake , and they did Quarantine , which was surprisingly made quite fast , and was penned to be released here as well . Guess someone got smart and decided to pre-empt that remake version with the original , and for some , the decision will be whether to double dip , stick to the original , or the remake when it's released at the end of the month . This is one effective , relatively low budget movie along the same veins of horror movies making good use of the shaky cam . Those who feel queasy will naturally want to give this a miss , but then again , you'll be giving up on some really scary stuff here designed to put those shaky constraints and limitations to the test . Of course there's a story to follow , and despite its short run time , there are enough material here to build up the back story , as well as presenting the lead characters as someone you'd really care about in wanting them to emerge from this strange ordeal unscathed . We follow a television crew in their filming of an episode of " While You're Asleep " , where journalist Angela ( Manuela Velasco ) and her cameraman Pablo ( Pablo Rosso , of course it's natural to name this cameraman after your DOP ) follow the adventures of firemen in their neighbourhood . In a strange pre-emptive irony , the chief commented that 70 % of the time they deal with , instead of fires , rather mundane stuff like rescuing pets , or some other unexpected incidents . I guess nothing will prepare them for what's to come . So an SOS call is made , and for the entire movie , we follow the point of view of the cameraman , as our entourage arrive at a small building where you have an old woman lumbering around before starting to attack the policeman on duty . Before you know it , they're ordered by the authorities outside the building to listen to the duty cop , and to stay at all times at the lobby hallway . The building gets physically quarantined , and soon everyone starts getting jittery with the lack of information . Saying too much will be letting the cat out of the bag , but suffice to say that every capability of a camera was put to good use here , and there were moments which draw the audience into rapturous cheers and even drew some unintended laughter , but for the most parts , it's really an effective mix of silence and noise , and plenty of confidence in knowing what to show verbatim , and when to pull back to obscure . After all , the best horror device here to put into use , are everyone's imagination just how bad things have deteriorated and become , planting catalysts into the minds via sneaky peeps . It's quite excellent on many fronts , such as how low frills this can actually be , but yet present itself in engaging and entertaining ways . For those looking for a good scare , look no further than REC . And yes , I'll be double dipping and watching Quarantine , just to see if Hollywood can bastardize something incredible , and dumb it down unnecessarily through the need to explain everything .
A Nutshell Review : Jackass Number Two	I haven't seen the Jackass television series from MTV , or the original movie when it was released in 2002 . This sequel was originally planned for release here sometime last year in October , but has been shelved until now . Nonetheless I shall unabashedly say that I had a good time watching this , but I guess it will only appeal to those who have a thing for low browed humour . Jackass Number Two consists of various episodes of skits , ranging from the vulgar to the dangerous , featuring a whole host of comedians cum stunt persons who are willing to risk life and limb to capture on film some ridiculous , nonsensical stunts , or craft deliberate candid camera-ish funny moments to either humiliate , or just have plain fun amongst the cast and crew . The gags range from the simple sucker punch types , to elaborate rouses like Ashton Kutcher's Punk'd . Even their own cast and crew are not spared moments where the joke's actually on them , without them knowing . With Johnny Knoxville ( Dukes of Hazzard ) being one of the chief pranksters , be prepared for plenty of scenes with naked butts , balls , and hair from the pubic region . Be prepared for loads of camera focus on the body parts , and bodily fluids from animals are not spared either . If it's not your kind of thing and you dismiss toilet humour jokes easily , then steer clear of this comedy , as crassness just got its ante upped in this movie . There's no joke that cannot be made here , and there's a running one throughout the movie involving an old man , and another on an old lady . No holds barred , I tell you . If you want to unwind after a hard day's work , in need of some mindless fun and comedy , and not bother about plot or characters , then Jackass Number Two is an automatic choice . Just do repeat what they do , in the real world . And if you've watched this already , which is your favourite skit ?
A Nutshell Review : Mostly Martha	The kitchen makes for a good setting for movies . There's wonderful food , chefs with personality , and a rat . . . wait , that's Ratatouille , Pixar's latest offering which unfortunately won't be shown here until the end of next month . On the other hand , a trailer for a romantic comedy seemed to have caught my eye . Also set in a kitchen , it stars Catherine Zeta Jones and Aaron Eckhart opposite each other as chefs who don't get along but ultimately fall in love , you know , the usual opposites attract formula , in No Reservations . But I was surprised that it was actually based on a German movie called Mostly Martha back in 2001 , based on a pickup at the library , and reading through the synopsis , it just couldn't be more coincidental as that . Hollywood has been poaching remake rights to a host of movies in Asia , from horror like Shutter , to crime thrillers like Confession of Pain , to Korean romantic comedies like My Sassy Girl and the likes . And of course , remakes and adaptations of movies from the European continent too . I wonder how much more original stories can Tinseltown spin on its own , without resorting to cannibalizing from others . Written and directed by Sandra Nettelbeck , Mostly Martha is not your typical romantic comedy , contrary to what the Hollywood remake would suggest ( from the trailers so far ) . The premise is of course similar . Martha Klein ( Martina Gedeck ) is the head chef for a restaurant , a to the book , no nonsense , proud chef at that . She has a rigid lifestyle , and finds herself so high strung that on her employer's advice , reluctantly checks herself in for therapy . Her niece Lina ( Maxime Foerste ) drops into her life one day , and both find it difficult to adapt to one another , with Lina at first glance being your typical stubborn , bratty child . And things become worse when Martha has to face up to competition in her own kitchen , with the arrival of Italian chef Mario ( Sergio Castellitto ) , a man whose laissez-faire style just drives her nuts . If Hollywood were to take the script from here , it would make it a simple , expected romantic tangle between Martha and Mario , in which the trailer for No Reservations seem to suggest . But Mostly Martha is more than that . It's deeper , more subtle , has negligible snarky remarks passing off as comedy , and doesn't turn the kid into a precocious cutesy tot . It's steers towards powerful drama territory , with each scene beautifully shot , minimal dialogue which just catches your attention span , and subtle philosophical ideas tossed into the whole works . It examines the relationships between all characters in a very engaging manner , and doesn't neglect any of the main leads . What emerges is a classy movie , with interesting reminders on life and living life . I particularly liked how fine dining gets weaved into the narrative , be it the preparation , or the properties , or just to decorate the set . Don't watch this on an empty stomach , please ! What I found true is its account that unlike food , there is no recipe to life which you can follow step by step to a T , based on fixed parameters which if followed accurately , will bring out that flavour in the end result . Life can't be run that way , and certainly there is no recipe or formula on how to lead a successful life , having success defined by one's values . My advise would be , given that Hollywood has adopted key scenes in its own release , and signs do seem to point No Reservations towards a true blue romantic comedy , if you'd like , watch the Hollywood version , but please comeback to the original source material , and you'll understand why Hollywood wanted to remake this , and for you to experience the actual , rich storyline that Mostly Martha ( or its German title Bella Martha ) is actually all about .
A Nutshell Review : Step Up	I think I'm fast becoming a fan of the dance genre . The moves and the music just gets to me , be it Mad Hot Ballroom styled documentaries , or street hip hop , or a fusion of both , like in the recent Take The Lead . Step Up is one such movie , full of youthful energy that makes you want to stand up and do a jig or two . The storyline though is nothing to shout about . It stuck to formula with leads that don't get along , and yet fitting like a glove as they heat up both the dance floor as well as one another's hearts . It's your usual bad-boy-good-girl pairing , with inspiration rubbing off each other , and the usual white-trash and upper strata of society mix and exploration of differences , or maybe perhaps , some similarities . Like its dance moves , the story's a fusion of improvisation and structure , so despite the tinge of familiarity , you'll probably forgive it as it allows you to do a quantum leap to get headlong into the scheme of things . But what struck me is how similar this movie's structure and lead character are to Eminem's 8 Mile , with the same mould of a " white rabbit " boy , from the underclass , trying to triumph against odds that he faces in his quest to do something worthwhile with his life . Replace 8 Mile's freestyle rapping with street hip hop dance , and you get Channing Tatum's Tyler Gage , the dude from the hood with hardcore dance attitude yo ! This bro I can tell is gonna heat up the screens for the ladies in da house . You can hear silent female sighs each time he comes on to do his thing . If you find him familiar , yep , he was playing opposite Amanda Byrnes in She's The Man as the captain of the football team . Step Up's other lead is Jenna Dewan as the rich girl Nora Clark pursuing a dance career , and has to come up with some slick choreographed moves for her final year project to gain the attention of scouts from the industry . No prizes if you think you know who she has to turn to for help . There are various supporting characters , but I'd like to highlight R & B singer Mario's stint as a music producer-student who has this knack of rocking da house from tunes spun from his macbook ( yep , product placement ) . But before you dismiss this as yet another run of the mill dance movie , it's actually both adequately entertaining , and fused with a right amount of drama , for character development purposes . Pursuing of dreams , of living up to promises made , of being there for friends , these are but some of the tired but tested sub plots that make its usual rounds in the movie . As always , you never really get to see the entire dance sequence during rehearsals , until the finale where it's full-dress-show-off time . And director Anne Fletcher , who choreographed moves for plenty of movies , pulls this one off brilliantly . It was well worth the wait , even if it all ended in a saccharine sweet manner .
A Nutshell Review : Sahara	The trailer of this film does not do it any justice , as it presented this film like another rehash of Nicholas Cage's National Treasure , given the success of that film at the box office . While this show is somewhat a treasure hunt adventure , the focus is far from that , as it manages to put in many different subplots and mix them well together , even though each subplot takes up little screen time . You have two treasure hunters ( Matthew McConaughey and Steve Zahn ) , a World Health Organization doctor ( Penelope Cruz ) , Mali warlords , a French industralist ( our favourite Matrix Merovingian without the exaggerated French accent ) , with plots about pollution and toxic waste , a Civil War era iron ship , feuding factions , shady clandestine organizations and treasure hunting . Based upon a Clive Cussler novel , the feel of the movie is like an Indiana Jones adventure , with interesting and sometimes comedic action sequences , its own catchy Dirk musical theme ( that could be a mainstay if this show has its own franchise ) , a capable sidekick who provides the laughs , and even makes subtle digs at Indiana Jone's penchant for not losing his fedora hat . I've never watched a Matthew McConaughey flick since his major debut in A Time To Kill ( also based on a novel , by John Grisham ) , and if this movie proves successful , he might be on his way to a new movie franchise . Steve Zahn manages to bring across the comedy with uncanny timing , and Penelope Cruz , well , what more can I say ? If you enjoyed National Treasure , don't let the trailer fool you into thinking that this show is similar . It's more .
A Nutshell Review : Forever Enthralled	I got to watch this trailer inadvertently when it was part of a montage sequence honouring Chen Kaige with the Akira Kurosawa Award during last year's Tokyo International Film Festival , and I was actually thrilled to have caught glimpses of it . I thought the boo-boys were out too early in lamenting Chen's choice of Leon Lai in the titular role , thinking that he would ruin what would be a decent biopic about one of China's greatest opera singer . To me , those fears were quite unfounded , as I felt Leon Lai actually did reasonably well when under the thick operatic makeup to transform himself for his stage persona , from Mei Wanhua to Mei Lanfang , where portrays only female characters . But of course if put side by side with Chinese actor Yu Shaoqun , Lai paled considerably as Yu was obviously the better of the two , portraying the younger Mei who found his true calling when opportunity came knocking on his door , and deciding to seize it , yet being mindful all the time of where his roots were . And the best parts were of course the first act , where Mei decides to up the ante and challenge his master , the then largest opera star Shi Sanyan ( Wang Xueqi ) to a show-down of sorts if you will . Under his master's wing , he finds himself somewhat stifled in not being able to explore his roles much further , given the master's fear that his thunder will be stolen . At the encouragement of maverick magistrate and future sworn brother / business manager Qiu Rubai ( Sun Honglei ) , he finds some new found confidence to test waters while still keeping true to the core of his character , thus earning new praise , and given one's talent with nothing much to lose , one will go for broke - win and you win all , lose and you have really no reputation at stake , in contrary to his master . It's about control , or the lack thereof . From early on we learn that actors in the days of the crumbling of the Chinese monarchy that they do not have any respect , and have to play to the whims of those with power , money and fame . Even then the child actors have to pander to lords with a penchant for young boys . Mei does not buckle his self-worth , and is pretty clear that while he portrays ladies in more feminine terms than real ladies , that it does not make him easy fodder . And we follow through his life how he does not get to live the life he wants to lead , but rather according to both the rules and regulations of the stage , as well as the same off it in society . Be it instructions from his managers , his wife Zhifang ( Chen Hong ) or the Japanese occupiers , each seemingly want to exert an influence over his career and personal life , not so much for personal gain , but to propagate that legend and persona so carefully crafted over the years . Naturally Mei finds an avenue to fight back , and does so through an affair of the heart . While he portrays females on stage , he meets his equal in Meng Xiaodong ( Zhang Ziyi ) , who is his mirror opposite , the best in the business in playing male characters . Together they blaze a trail of glory , and naturally leads to tongues wagging . While Zhang Ziyi may share top billing , in actual fact she's nothing more than a supporting role , coming in only in the middle portion to highlight Mei's need for escape from his rigid world . Much is said about the supporting actors doing a far better job than the leads , and that is true , in a nice way . My respect for the Chinese actors have grown from watching a number of indie and mainstream films , and I can't credit the likes of Sun Honglei , Chen Hong , Wang Xueqi and especially Yu Shaoqun in being nothing less than superb each time they come on screen to chew up the scenery . It's not really fair to say the leads acted poorly , because the supporting cast had raised the bar in delivery , which adds to the enjoyment of the film . I can never forget the really poor movie in The Promise which Chen Kaige made a couple of years back . The story was so bad it allowed the special effects to run wild in trying to salvage the show . There aren't a lot of Chinese bio-pics ( or at least those I have watched ) in recent years that were non-martial arts related ( think Ip Man , Wong Fei-Hung , Fong Sai-Yuk , Huo Yuanjia etc ) , and somehow I'm glad Chen Kaige found his mojo back to helm this , and in far elegant terms that I'm now better convinced to check out more of his filmography . He was able to shift gears quite effortlessly between distinct acts of the narrative , which straddled a timeline from after the Qing Dynasty to after the surrender of the Japanese . However , there might seem to be a quantum leap in addressing issues towards the last 30 minutes , but for everything else , it was paced quite evenly to keep you interest from waning . Forever Enthralled has all the ingredients of a credible epic , from beautiful set designs and art direction , to a wonderful soundtrack and elegant costumes , Chen Kaige does not scrimp in making this film look and feel just like it would back in those days of sheer opulence . While opera may be an artform that is dwindling here , don't let the Peking Opera focus here put you off , as you just might find some reason to want to watch the real thing if you have the opportunity to . Definitely recommended .
A Nutshell Review : Ice Age 2 : The Meltdown	Similar to the first Ice Age , the promotional material for the sequel was out in the theatres way in advance , and courtesy of the Scrat character too , up to its usual antics of getting to that elusive acorn . Here , Scrat opens the movie , and emulating the style of the first , he provides most of the laughs , also as an intermission from the actual scenes from the main cast . Our gang of prehistoric animals are back - Manny the Mammoth ( voiced by Ray Romano ) , Sid the Sloth ( John Leguizamo ) and Diego the Sabre-tooth Tiger ( Denis Leary ) . We learn that Sid has gone into the early childhood business , educating the young minds of pre-historic brats . However , I felt that this movie was somehow darker in tone than the original . While the original was one which dealt with hope , this one had its setting in extinction , disaster and death . The valley which they live in is threatened by the melting ice , no thanks to global warming . So all the animals embark on a journey to salvation , to that rumored ark which will save them from the massive floods to come . Along the way , our trio meets up with another trio of characters , who were added to expand the cast , featuring 2 Possums Crash ( Seann William Scott ) and Eddie ( Josh Peck ) , and another , but female , mammoth ( Queen Latifah ) . Needless to say , Manny's still anti-social , and Diego can't get along with those rascal possums who get on his nerves , and Sid's the " philosopher " ever providing the laughs . Various themes like romance ( hey , we got 2 mammoths here ) , friendship , trust , and believing in oneself to overcome one's phobia get covered . Pretty wide scope , but they manage to fit in place nicely . The villains in this sequel are pretty nasty , besides the looming natural disaster , we have two sea creatures with nasty teeth and attitude , as well as menacing vultures ever ready to pounce on the flesh of animals who have fallen . But it's not all that bleak . Keep a lookout too for that mad sloth song-and-dance sequence , which has potential to become the next ear worm ala Madagascar's zany " you-got-to-move-it " song . The animation is as usual , top notch , and I just can't get enough of the photo-realistic ice and water landscape . This is one piece of animation that doesn't rely too much on sight gags , of spoofing current affairs , but one filled with more witty dialogue and kept on an even keel with its interesting storyline . Though at times it might feel clichéd , somehow it excelled in its execution . And that makes this sequel , as enjoyable as , if not better , than the original . Recommended stuff this week !
A Nutshell Review : Lust , Caution	Early in the movie , Wong Chia Chi ( Tang Wei ) gets asked to act in a patriotic play , in a time when China was threatened by the Japanese Invasion during the late 30s / early 40s . Little does she know that she's got to carry on acting the rest of her life , together with her group of idealistic young dramatists , as stage feelings stirred up real emotions that calls for the sacrificial of self for the greater good , for the country . What they lack in experience , they make up with their youthful passion and exuberance . And their rawness shows in the way they clumsily set up their traps for the coming of the prey , and fumbling even with their first blood . Welcome to Lee Ang's world of espionage . It's not glam , and gets draped in many real world sense and sensibilities . We enter a world where Trust and Loyalty are difficult to come by , and with shadows lurking in every corner , waiting to pounce at the slightest of mistakes . But the darkness is beautifully captured , and like its endless rounds of mahjong , you're waiting for that perfect tile to come your way , for the opportune to present itself , for the East Wind to come about . That's how this movie's espionage theme is played out , with plenty of waiting . Instant results and instant gratification do not come easy , and even the finale I found to be less than satisfying , though it provided subtle avenues to keep your imagination running as to how the turn of events have greatly affected the usually cautious Mr Yee ( Tony Leung ) . Like the movie , Leung's Mr Yee remains an enigma we are trying to have a crack at , trying to , like the rest , understand his secret life . He sneaks around from fort to fort , always with protection , and has this solid wall build around his personal life , that even his wife ( Joan Chen ) finds hard to break , and letting it be anyway , enjoying luxurious life as a tai-tai . All we know about Yee , is that he's a Chinese traitor in the employment of the Japanese , while enjoying immense power under the protection of his master , readily bolts like a running dog that he is in the first signs of trouble . Enter Tang Wei's Chia Chi , in a strategy hundreds of years old , and that is to use the lure of the beauty to provide the downfall of powerful generals . As a fresh faced ingénue , she enters the dangerous cat and mouse game at great personal sacrifice , probing cautiously ( that's the word again ) into the life of Mr Yee , and casting those come hither eyes as bait to lure her prey , relying on others to provide the finishing blow and save her from his evil roaming clutches . In order to enter his circle of trust , she has to play to the sadistic sexual fantasies ( you see , I don't think he gets any from Mrs Yee anyway ) of a repressed man using her as an avenue to release those pent up rage and frustrations from work , where his job as we know is to interrogate fellow countrymen . It's not a glam job , especially when you're casting your lot with the underdogs . Lust , Caution is a tale of two lonely people , forced by circumstances to do what they have to . One , to fulfill her ideology and get rid of possibly one of the most dangerous man to the Chinese , while the other , looking for honest companionship . It's falling for and sleeping with the enemy both ways , and in a time where trust is hard pressed , this makes everything more complex , especially when it comes to irrational emotions that overrule logic and guard . It's layered with plenty of betrayals whichever way you look at it , and the narrative kept pace by unfolding eachlayer intricately . Which makes it ultimately a very sad love that couldn't be story , the perennial fib to reality . Tony being Tony , I can't help but think that with his hair slicked back , and his stoic demeanor in well pressed suits , look the more vengeful version of his Mr Chow from In the Mood for Love , though this time round he really gets it on with another married woman Mrs Mak , Chia Chi's alter-ego . He might be sleepwalking through his role here , as he speaks very little and does even less , but comes alive in his scenes toward the end . LeeHom is rather wooden though as the de-factor youth leader , and his romantic moments with Tang Wei just falls flat given that it's not fully developed here , if not for the focus of love between Mr Yee and Mrs Mak . Like how Lee Ang shot Zhang Ziyi to prominence with her role in Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon as a headstrong young woman who comes of age , Tang Wei snags a role as such and it wouldn't be much of a surprise should she gain acclaim and recognition for her role here . She switches between the greenhorn student and one who's living a lie quite easily , and she exhibits linguistic skills ( English , Cantonese , Mandarin and even Shanghainese ) and even talent for song . Watch those eyes of hers , and her rant during breaking point , excellent stuff . Lust , Caution is an espionage story that works , and being set in a tumultuous era helped loads in the eagerness and sense of urgency required , and how patience in getting everything set up for that one shot one kill opportunity makes it a constant tussle , both for the characters , and how events get played out .
A Nutshell Review : Watchmen	It begins with the murder of The Comedian ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) , a superhero once engaged by the government for its missions , and one of two which is sanctioned by the government . As part of the Minutemen , and then later the Watchmen group , we learn of The Comedian's backstory through a series of flashbacks with the members of his team , and we learn he isn't exactly the usual friendly neighbourhood type nor Mr Popular . He comes complete with plenty of skeletons in the closet , and with an extremely damaged persona made worse from the ghosts of war . He continues to do what he does because he can , which will make any human rights activist seethe with rage . Investigating the murder because he is certain that it leads to a bigger conspiracy of a hired killer engaged to bump off ex-superheroes , Rorschach ( Jackie Earle Haley ) takes it upon himself to work outside the system as an outlawed masked vigilante , and this narrative arc runs like an old-fashioned detective crime noir . Running around warning his ex-team members , we soon get introduced to all the other characters , like Dan Dreiberg the Night Owl II ( Patrick Wilson ) , Adrian Veidt's Ozymandias ( Matthew Goode ) , touted as one of the greatest brains and now turned into a successful businessman , who's in pursuit of renewable energy which he deems will turn back the doomsday clock because of his belief that man goes to war over finite resources , Silk Spectre II ( Malin Akerman ) whose mother was part of the Minutemen with The Comedian , and the only super-powered being Dr Manhattan ( Billy Crudup ) , whose allegiance with the USA staves off any potential pre-emptive aggression by the USSR . Quite a list of actors here and it's a smart move in casting a relatively none-too - A-list cast so that none would chew up the screen at the expense of another character or the plot . Snyder knows how to play up his strengths , since the movie's intelligence gets handed to him on a silver platter . What was once deem " unfilmmable " by directors who entered and left the project like through revolving doors , it's no surprise that the studios had turned to the man who faithfully adapted in visual terms , Frank Miller's graphic novel 300 . I suppose it's a bit of a no-brainer here to again try and visually adapt a graphic novel , and an Alan Moore masterpiece at that , by sticking true to its form from the comic panels . This of course would garner Snyder plenty of flak for doing what he does best again , leaving some unimpressed by reasoning it doesn't take a genius to do just that , but seriously , who has the balls to stamp their own mark on the story and characters , other than to put in some minor tweaks for the modern audience ? However Snyders shortcomings come in the form of the lengthy narratives found in the graphic novel , especially toward the second half of the film , and that between Dr Manhattan and Silk Spectre II , which he failed in bringing out the dramatic qualities in character realization and affirmation , and the only response to being like a deer caught in the headlights , Is to throw in more CG unfortunately . Action wise , the film medium allows for Snyder to connect the dots and interpret what happens between comic book panels . Granted the action sequences are few and far between , but Watchmen is never about superheroes busting balls . But when they do , it's no holds barred , and although the trailer seem to suggest plenty of slow-motion , the actual film is anything but . Some of the best set action pieces involve both Night Owl II and Silk Spectre II when they team up to reminisce the days of old . The action sequences here are well filmed , without those quick cut edits or too close a quarter that everything mixes together in a dizzy spin and you can't see anything . In a cinema hall with great sound system , you get to feel every whack and punch the character throws , with the bass reverberating right through to your heart . Now for the gripes . Unless you're really paying attention and can lip read , some of the dialogue may just fly past you so quickly , that you'll go " huh ? " . And that lengthy chit-chat that Dr . Manhattan has with the Silk Spectre II would test your patience a little , despite some graphical effects being overdone in attempting to distract you for a bit from the bore . I suppose that's one of the difficulties faced , in trying to summarize lengthy text from the book into a visual medium - how do you do so without putting your audience to sleep , and yet crucial enough to have to be included somehow ? I guess Snyder had yet to find that perfect balance there . Also , while it was a careful selection of songs from the 80s era for the soundtrack , Snyder shows he's no Tarantino in having a ear for great music , and some of the tunes did feel a little out of place . I did like the insertion of Simon and Garfunkel's Sounds of Silence though during a funeral scene . It worked perfectly and gave a very surreal feel to it all . Watch the Watchmen if you'd like a quick peek and introduction to the complexity and sheer genius of an Alan Moore story , coupled with visuals that pop right out of the graphic novel . With a little tweaks made to the story , purists may cry foul at such a blasphemous attempt . But if you take a look at the bigger picture , and the sacrifices for the objectives that can be achieved ( just like how it plays out in the story ) it just might win new fans over , and to pick up the source graphic novel . To that , I'd say this comes in recommended , though no thanks to additional edits made in order to cater to the teenage crowd here whom I suspect would be restless if approaching this film equating Snyder to 300 .
A Nutshell Review : Waterboys	I had enjoyed Japanese writer-director Shinobu Yaguchi's Swing Girls back in 2004 , in a story of how a group of schoolgirls mobilized to form a big band jazz group , trained and finally perform in competition . It had a simple story made great by the excellent cast in endearing characters , as well as awesome jazz music to go along . In my attempt to revisit some of his earlier works , it had led me back to the Waterboys . Waterboys almost follows the same formula , where a group of misfits get together , and against all odds and everyone's pessimism , manage to pull through and put up one heck of a performance . Along the way , they encounter seemingly implausible obstacles which stand to derail their plans and hopes , and sometimes watching them come through in comedic ways just puts a smile on you . It's one of those feel good movies without any real villains to snarl at , just being there to cheer them on as they try to give one of the best performances of their mundane lives . A youthful looking Satoshi Tsumabuki ( starred in this year's Nada Sou Sou ) plays Suzuki , the only member of his school's swim team , who gets more members than he bargained for when a beautiful teacher , Mrs Sakuma ( Kaori Manabe ) becomes the swim coach of the all - boys school . But after a comedy of errors , we're left with 5 nerdy boys who must rough it out to be synchronized swimmers instead , bringing guffaws from their schoolmates and folks in their neighbourhood . Not wanting to give up , they enlist the reluctant help of a dolphin trainer ( Naoto Takenaka , who was also in Swing Girls ) at Sea World , who trains them through unorthodox methods , which brings on the laughter and allows space for the boys to exude charm during their weird routines . It's basically an underdog's story and their struggles to fulfill a promise , whether or not they look stupid or effeminate while doing it . And thrown into the mix is a budding romance between Suzuki , and Shizuko Kiuchi ( Aya Hirayama ) , a female karate exponent from a neighbouring all-girls school . And when they finally get their act going , you'll be left wanting more . That's how a bubblegum movie should be , in order to cover its breezy , simple plot . Thoroughly entertaining , and suitable for all ages . The Code 3 DVD from Alliance Entertainment ( as with most locally pressed DVDs ) comes without any special features . Visuals are letterboxed , and the quality of transfer is decent . The audio comes in Dolby Digital Stereo , and subtitles are available in English or Chinese . Scene selection is available in 8 chapters .
A Nutshell Review : TMNT	The 80s was a funky time to grow up in , when kids have a wide , and I mean really wide selection of cartoons to watch , and not to mention the toys tied in to make billions . I can rattle off the toons like Mask , Silverhawks , BraveStarr , and the earlier GI Joes and He-Man , etc . It was a period of time where I celebrated in my shorts , but I vividly remember that growing up phase when somehow , the toons didn't start to appeal anymore . Probably I was maturing ( ahem ) , and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was caught in this transition stage I was in . Not that I didn't enjoy the episodes on television , but they looked kiddy-ish . If you've read the original comic books by creators Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird , you'll know what I mean . Gone were the dark , gritty tones , replaced by smiling turtles who for reasons of getting the nod for acceptable screen violence , do not use their weapons . You wonder why they're outfitted with deadly katanas , nunchuks and sais , but decide to use things like dustbin lids , manhole covers and the likes to fend off The Foot . Then again , the demographics for the cartoon series were different , and mainly to feed the demand for the merchandise , and the toys were created with infinite number of permutations and combinations . Things got sillier when they're dressed with strange disguises , just to make that extra buck on a toy . Don't get me started on the earlier movies too . While Jim Henson's puppet house created almost life-like ninja turtles , the story stank , and again , to cater to the target audience , the weapons once again became white elephants . Shredder and The Foot Clan were chief villains , together with Bebop and Rocksteady , but it all played out rather childishly , reminiscent of the cartoon series . It drifted far away from the original source material , and the sequel , which featured a Vanilla Ice cameo , made it all the worse . I'm glad to say that this animated TMNT met expectations , thankfully , giving mature audiences beautiful animation to gawk at , coupled with a decent story . Decent , not fantastic , as it had rehashed certain plot elements from the first movie , and the usual Leonardo - Raphael feud . Set in an era post-Shredder , where our heroes in a half-shell are taking it easy and living their own lives , it added a hokey mythological dimension to introduce some new villains , and given its short runtime , made it seem all like a rush job , given that a montage was slapped to move things along . Then again , this movie probably was never about the villains , but a celebration of the return of the once beloved characters . It put the spotlight firmly on Leonardo , Donatello , Raphael and Michelangelo , together with their master Splinter , ex-newscaster April O'Neil , and vigilante Casey Jones . The villains serve their purpose of being turtle fodder , and an excuse to see our heroes utilize their weapons for once ( though again , no blood is spilled , but they used their weapons , so I'm a happy camper ) . Central to the theme of getting together back again is that of Brotherhood , and our heroes grit and show their teeth just like in the comics , rather than the red tongue in the cartoons . Michelangelo still remained my favourite turtle of them all , and I think he's the best animated character in the movie , given his many goofy expressions , and his larger than usual eyes . The voice talents are something to marvel at too - Chris Evans ( Casey Jones ) , Sarah Michelle Gellar ( April ) , the late Mako Iwamatsu ( Splinter , and also starring in Cages ) , Patrick Stewart ( Max Winters ) , Laurence Fishburne ( Narrator ) , Zhang Ziyi ( Karai ) , and Kevin Smith as an anonymous diner . Writer-director Kevin Munroe got his formula and played his cards right for this movie , and his next film is Gatchaman , yet another piece of animation I grew up with . Looking at the preview stills , it might look like a hit , and given his adequately entertaining take on TMNT , with a sequel suggested , I can't wait . I'd say again , the animation is great , and the soundtrack rocked too . Thank goodness it didn't contain any cheesy lines or tune from the cartoon's theme song .
A Nutshell Review : Elizabeth : The Golden Age	Cate Blanchett reprises her role as 16th Century Virgin Queen Elizabeth I in director Shekhar Kapur's sequel of sorts to Elizabeth ( 1998 ) , which I can't recall if it made it to the local screens . However the DVD of Elizabeth was recently released on DVD here , but you need not have watched that movie because the events that transpire here are after the fact of her ascension to the Throne of England , and you need not be a history buff in order to get up to speed on the events that led up to the opening of the movie . Of course it does help a bit , so if you're choosing not to approach this blind , then you can pop over to Wikipedia for a quick synopsis . The movie begins with the threat of war with Spain looming on the horizon . Spanish King Philip II ( Jordi MOlla ) , a devout Catholic , wants to wage holy war against England , of course to expand his empire , but under the guise of Relgion , since Elizabeth ( Cate Blanchett ) is a Protestant . And to do so requires a reason to send his Armada across the English Channel , which involves making calculated political steps , counting upon those who are Catholics , and to throw his weight behind the supposed Queen in exile / imprisonment Mary of Scots ( played by Samantha Morton ) - here's where you'll probably need some background information to understand the intricacies of the English Mornarchy , in no part made even more complicated since Henry VIII was ruler before his , giving the family tree a healthy boost in the number of branches . The focus however , is still set on Elizabeth , as she goes about trying to deflect questions about her fertility , virginity , and singlehood ( there's actually a good reason to why she stays single , not that she's unattractive , or have a lack of suitors ) . It's like a tale of two halves , where the beginning involves dalliances with her lack of love life , setting the stage for a triangle between herself , her favourite hand maiden Elizabeth Throckmorton ( Abbie Cornish , whom the gossip mags credited for coming in between Ryan Phillipe and Resse Witherspoon ) , and suave pirate Walter Raleigh ( Clive Owen ) , who charms them with his tales of the high seas and the finding of the new world . Later to be Sir Walter Raleigh , his initial audience with the Queen was for funding his exploits , but later with Cupid's arrow , it becomes pretty much muddled with affairs of the heart , as we learn of the social impossibility between the Queen and the pirate , and the countless protocols that come with privileged women . Those who were expecting spectacular battle scenes , especially when the trailers have Elizabeth in full armour , rousing her troops , will be sorely disappointed , because history had already decided the outcome of the battle . Moreover , as far as naval warfare go involving ships with sails , Pirates of the Caribbean had already laid down the gauntlet as far as spectacular is concerned , and that unfortunately , had elements of the supernatural and the fantastical in its aid . But for a period piece , with foundation laid in history , coupled with a dash of artistic and dramatic licensing , Elizabeth : The Golden Age does serve up copious amounts of excellent acting , courtesy of Blanchett , Geoffrey Rush reprising her role as trusted adviser Sir Francis Walsingham and Owen , that it still makes it compelling to witness historical events put up on screen ( of course with accuracy never being 100 % anyway ) . Historical biographies more often than not have dramatic moments included to spice up proceedings , but this one had enough political intrigue and scheming draped with beautiful costumes to keep you engaged . Time to pick up the prequel !
A Nutshell Review : Perth	Perth is Harry Lee's retirement plan . As an ex-army commando regular turned security supervisor of a shipyard , he leads a nonchalant life , where he regularly exclaims to others that he's a simple man with little materialistic desires , and harbours a goal to settle in Perth , Australia , where life down under is said to be good . When retrenched , he seeks employment as a taxi driver , but ever looking for that break in life to earn more cash to achieve his objective . However , things turn out more complicated for Harry . When sober , we see the empty facade Harry exudes to others , but we learn of the true state of his life when in drunkenness , pouring out his woes to his friends - he's separated from his cheating , gambling wife , and his son refuses to acknowledge him . His is a lonely sad life , and this movie takes a look at the life of the forgotten pioneers of Singapore's materialistic success . We follow his path to the seedier side of the Lion City , into the world of pimps and prostitutes , where he has a lucrative job to ferry the girls to their customers , no questions asked . A depression-proof job , says his friend Angry Boy Lee . Somehow , coffeeshops feature prominently in Singapore movies of late , and Perth is no different , where characters sit around and rant about the authorities , give subtle jibes on the army , and the eventuality of army regulars after their retirement from the uniformed services . They go on about how a better life in Singapore equates first to having a good education , how materialism has crept into society's moral fiber , and the greener pastures available abroad for the lowly skilled . The jibes on the ang-moh's are not subtle though , them being cursed at and assaulted . We know Harry is a violent man from his inner thoughts , but early in the film , it's like his bark is deadlier than his bite . The occasional rant aside , Harry is a man who values faithfulness and loyalty . He fails to see that though his family might not exhibit these values ( probably due to his inner violent nature which led to domestic violence ) , his friends like Angry Boy and Selvam , actually do . The subplot on love and his budding relationship with a Vietnamese call girl at times drags the movie , but it is necessary to lead the movie to its extremely violent finale . The language used throughout is colourful , and I could not think of a local Hokkien expletive not spewed in this film . Perth looks like a one man show from its trailer and poster , with Lim Kay Tong putting in a wonderful performance in shouldering the movie , but gladly , a cast of familiar ( and perhaps stereotypical ) supporting characters help add some depth and sometimes , dark humour . You'll see familiar faces from local TV productions too , like Channel 8's Liu Qiu Lian as Harry's wife . From the laughter amongst the audience , Angry Boy Lee and Selvam are easily favourite characters of some . It's a dark and gritty film , some might consider a local adaptation of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver . But perhaps expectations will be set too high if benchmarked against that classic . This is story of Harry Lee , not Travis Bickle , so put the comparisons aside , and enjoy the ride .
A Nutshell Review : The Paper	I've been to a newsroom only twice in my life . First , it's to collect some lucky draw winnings , and I had a sneak peek into the hustle and bustle of a newsroom from behind a glass panel . The next one was more up close and personal , because a journalist friend brought me right up to his desk ( and an incredibly piled up one at that ) , and I had first hand view of how news got made . Or at least it seemed that the next day's articles were done up because there were few people left in the office , and there was a group huddled at one corner . Ron Howard's The Paper was one of those films that I didn't catch at the cinemas ( at that time , the teenage me only recognized Michael Keaton of his 1989 Batman and 1992 Batman Returns fame ) , and missed a number of scheduled telecast and re-runs on television . So it's no surprise that I snapped up the DVD the minute I saw it in the discount bins at the store . And I wonder just why the heck it took me so long to get down to watching this , with no regrets ( save for the technical aspect of the presentation ) . Keaton plays a Henry Hackett , a sub-editor for a small time tabloid in New York . Being a go-getting workaholic , he often puts his family life aside , which of course puts his very pregnant wife Martha ( Marisa Tomei ) under a lot of stress especially with her pregnancies woes , and not being able to get out there and do stuff . For their financial stability , one of the many subplots here involves her getting Henry a job interview at a larger paper , The Sentinel , and threatens him not to sabotage his own opportunities for advancement , which we learnt that he does so quite frequently in order to stay where he is . And it's not rocket science why too , as the bunch of folks he's working with is really madcap , and I think I too can thrive in such as a stressful , chaotic , but totally livewire environment . Each character presents a separate subplot which intertwines with Henry's life , and in one scene which I was totally mesmerized with , was when everyone dropped by Henry's office , and it went just off the hook . Wonderful stuff there , especially when you have Glenn Close as a rival sub-editor who happens to be the office bicycle ( erm , that means everyone had had a ride ) , Robert Duvall as an ailing editor stricken with cancer and trying to reconcile with his estranged daughter , and Randy Quaid in a totally hilarious role as the bummer in the office . All these while the team had to debate with the front page story for the next day , centered on reporting what's accurate and doing what's right ? the social responsibility in being a paper , with pressure on them because they had missed the previous day's scoop . Everyone's preoccupied with their own personal agenda , set against an office where the air-conditioner isn't working and driving temperatures and tempers up . It's work and family over a period of 24 hours , and I felt that this film had a story that ranks itself up there with other films that deal with their narratives over the same time period . You'd have come to expect a certain assured standard from director Ron Howard , and this film demonstrates nothing less . Everything naturally comes together perfectly toward the end like the birth of a new dawn , with relationships bruised but not battered , and what I also enjoyed here was John Seale's superb cinematography which had this extremely fluid motion when bringing us in and around a newsroom for that office tour each time we run around like crazy with Henry . The paper would be one of my personal favourites , and my only regret ( besides the technical aspects of the DVD ) was why it had taken me this long to uncover this gem of an enjoyable film .
A Nutshell Review : April Snow	The role of the mobile phone , in the making of and destruction of romantic relationships . Hands up , those of you who have used it to flirt , and keep your hands there if you have an archive of secret messages stashed away in one of the electronic folders of your phone's memory . Password protection , afraid of someone dear chancing upon them , aren't you ? Bae Yong-jun ( geeks of the world , rejoice ! ) stars as In-su , a man whose wife met with an accident . Terribly shaken , he sees his spouse in the hospital intensive care unit , in a comatose state . Unknowingly , he meets a woman Seo-young ( classic beauty Son Ye-jin ) at the ward , whose husband too , was involved in the same accident . Slowly , they discover that their spouses were cheating behind their backs , thereby giving both another blow to their emotions . I'm not really a fan of the bespectacled Bae , but in this film , he has demonstrated his acting prowess somewhat , if not already seen by most fans in his famed TV series Winter Sonata . You see the pain of a man who has dawned upon the knowledge of being betrayed by a spouse , the sadness emoting through his eyes when he reads SMS from the strayed spouse to her lover , and the intolerance viewing the video clip of their tryst in a hotel room . Here's a man who had lived in a web of adulterous deceit . And in the same boat , Son Ye-jin , ever so vulnerable as the clueless housewife Seo-young , who suffers silently while awaiting for her husband to awaken from his coma . On one hand , she hates him for what he has done , but on the other , still dutifully cares for him . And this duality and fighting of emotions for their respective spouses ring through the state of confusion both In-su and Seo-young are in . Sure , they want to seek revenge , which I suppose is a normal human reaction in these circumstances , but how ? The other party's spouse happens to be a victim too , and hereby lies the dilemma in the inability to exact sweet justice . Or can they ? As they meet up more often , by chance or otherwise , to have someone to talk to , to spend time with , to have meals together , each becomes the pillar of strength for the other , while they seek to unravel the rationale of their spouses ' illicit affair . A drunken slip of the tongue became the foreplay , and it's no rocket science that they decide to express their emotions in a physical manner , as promoted in the trailers . Note that I did not mention " love " . It doesn't seem so at this point - their body language seemed more like strangers , their movements awkward . It's like for the purpose of releasing pent-up anger and frustration , of getting back and for the sake of getting even . Twisted ; weird . Love ? No . But Love , probably , did creep in after a while . But you question if this is love out of convenience , of being there for the other person , just like the other is there for you , in dire straits ? And in an attempt to steer this controversial romance theme ( Two wrongs don't make a right - love borne out of an affair ) into more mainstream acceptance , the filmmakers brought in Fate to decide - to have something identifiable between the two leads , for them to make the decision on their plausible future . Hence the title . But the one scene which stood out for me , is the one where the confrontation is held . There isn't a need to ask point blank questions . A side remark in passing , and you'll come to understand whether it's worth burying the hatchet , or not . And it's kinda back to full circle , as the mobile device which destructed one side of the relationship , ended up nurturing another . Such is the electronic era we live and cope in .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Ben-Hur ( 1959 )	There are tons of material out there on Ben-Hur , so I shall keep mine short . There's only one reason I watched this , and that is to watch it in its entirety . Shown on TV countless times , I don't have the patience to watch it with advertisements , so all this while I survived on bits and pieces of the film . Ben-Hur , like all classics , have a single sequence to define it in cinematic history . The much talked about chariot race , still holds till this day , a spectacle to behold , and which Star Wars Episode 1 emulated in its equivalent called the pod-race . It has also won an unprecedented ( until recently tied ) 11 Academy awards in its time too . Also subtitled as a Tale of the Christ , the story of Jesus bookends this long movie , with the birth at the manger in Bethlehem , to his crucifixion in Jerusalem . In between , there are moments in which Judah Ben-Hur meets Jesus , though we never see the face of the Christ . There are other biblical characters mentioned / seen too , like Pontius Pilate , John the Baptist , and Jesus ' parents Joseph and Mary . Charlton Heston plays the title character Judah Ben Hur , an Jew aristocrat in Rome conquered Judea , whose childhood best friend , a Roman called Messala , is now second in command to the Roman governor . Unwilling to become an informer to Messala to name Jews involved in upcoming rebellions , Messala has Judah banished to slavery and his family imprisoned . Swearing revenge , we see how Judah overcome various odds , and incredible luck which sees him through his slavery , his rescue of a Roman general , becoming his adopted son , and returning to Judea to exact vengeance on Messala , hence the grand chariot race . Though I must admit it does get a little draggy , and the dialogue a bit stilted and colourful , but there are enough moments in this plot to keep you riveted in your seat . So if you're game for some serious good old styled story-telling , watch this classic . This Code 1 DVD contains a full length audio commentary by Charlton Heston , and a behind the scenes documentary called Ben-Hur : The Making of an Epic .
A Nutshell Review : Lions for Lambs	Lions for Lambs is Tom Cruise's first movie for his United Artists after being given the boot from Paramount Pictures . And instead of putting himself in yet another one man show , he combines forces and shares the spotlight with a stellar cast comprising Robert Redford , who also takes on directing duties , and Meryl Streep , in a story that touches on quite realistically on current affairs , based on scribe's Matthew Michael Carnahan's take on the entire political situation in the USofA currently , with special focus put into its war on terror . While Tom Cruise's recent antics might have irked some and taken off some of the shine off his star power , I can't help but be mesmerized by his take as the toothy grinning like a Cheshire cat , cock-sure character of a Republican senator , who's on the party's good books , and billed as the next big personality that will probably take the White House one day . I have to admit that I had actually looked forward to him delivering that all famous " Yes or No " line from the trailers , though " Whatever it takes " may well be immortalized amongst his other more legendary one liners like " You could be mine " ( Top Gun ) , " Show me the money ! " and " You complete me " ( Jerry Maguire ) and " I want the truth ! " ( A Few Good Men ) . War on Terror movies are proving to be popular subjects in the tail end of 2007 , especially when USA is sabre-rattling Iran . We have already seen Rendition , and coming up is The Kingdom . And Lions for Lambs couldn't be any more current when Cruise's Senator Jasper Irving shows off his new tactical strategy against the guerrilla enemies , with words so carefully crafted and chosen by a brain nurtured and educated from Ivy League education , relating them to Streep's Janine Roth , a journalist who has been granted a one hour one-on-one session interview , with so much conviction , appeal and charisma , you're more than likely to fall for his charms , if not for Roth to bring him down to earth with reflections from the past . Told in separate segments , each taking a look microscopically at the issue , but each when put together forms a bigger picture putting you in a Deus Ex Machina position , I thought the best segment belonged to Cruise-Streep , where they debate on politics , and media responsibility , with keen dialogue between the two parties filled with thrusting and parrying of various push and pull factors . There are many opportunities through this segment for you to nod in agreement with either side , but some might deem this as toting the middle ground , lacking in courage to take a stand on a side . But therein lies the problem , that there is hardly any clear cut right or wrong , that everything's based on information and intelligence . And the media can be manipulated , or be manipulative in telling select or fabricating truths . The other segment deals with Robert Redford's Professor Stephen Malley counselling a promising student who seemed to have been slacking off in class , and in need of some serious waking up . Perhaps this segment is squarely targeted at our disengaged youths , whom many would have likened to drift toward partying and idling , rather than be diligent and hardworking to earn their keep and prove their worth . The conversation here turned quite philosophical , though not as engaging as the rapid fire and sly exchange that Cruise - Streep scenes offered . Redford's segment is also very intricately connected to that of his ex-students , Ernest Rodriguez ( Michael Pena ) and Arian Finch ( Derek Luke ) , who are now Marines ser ving in Afghanistan , strong in their beliefs that they can make a difference to the world they live in . You can't help but think back to Michael Moore's Farenheit , where he interviewed senators ( like Cruise's character ) who just talk the talk , leaving the little , weaker folk , to walk their talk instead , volunteering and signing up for active duty , for that carrot dangling at the end of their tour , IF they survive and get to obtain it at all . As we see from the news every other day about US soldier casualty numbers mounting in two theatres of war , they are but a statistic , and this segment offers a much micro look at the lives of these soldiers , that they too hold hopes and dreams of a better life , once they fulfill their part to their belief to be contributing to a better , peaceful world . Action junkies would probably be amongst the audience because of this segment , which looked remotely like Behind Enemy Lines and Courage Under Fire put together , the action scenes only that is . This is a thinking man's movie , and those seeking high drama or intensive action from whatever little teases the trailers suggest , would be disappointed . What this movie is , is an examination of current geo-political situation of the US foreign policy , and its take on social issues , how it affects everyone from the high echelons of government , to the disconnected boy in the street who's focused on more selfish ideals . It is a mirror looking at US society as a whole , in their thinking of themselves as the moral police of the world ( because of the belief they can , and therefore should ) , but on a bigger scale , this is a reflection of any society where people might seek that call to action , but just how many will take the easier route by blowing hot air , and how many would take the plunge and actually do something about issues they care passionately about . Definitely not to be missed , even though it somehow rings a bit hollow in the end , as reel life takes on the real , but only if you want it to , thereby ending the way it ended , which was pitch perfect .
A Nutshell Review : Operation Undercover	" Wo Hu " literally translates to " Crouching Tiger " ( yeah yeah , one half of that famous Chinese proverb / movie of the same title ) , which refers to hidden talents , agendas and the likes . In yet another Hong Kong triad movie produced by the infamous Wong Jing , Operation Undercover ( the less stylish English title ) tells the story of how Hong Kong's police sent a rumoured thousand undercover cops to infiltrate the triads at all levels , leading to numerous high profiled arrests of triad members . But no , this story doesn't begin and end just like that . It's actually a misnomer of a plot device , and you're not going to see thousands of similar Tony Leung / Andy Lau characters invading the screen . In fact , this movie is anything but pitting mole against mole . While the story may seem to be familiar , with the theme of the discovery and realization of bad hats in any organization , and those whose hearts and intentions are pure , the delivery , although stylistically looking similar to Infernal Affairs with its strained blue hues , actually excelled , very much dependent on the ensemble cast . It's great to see Miu Kiu Wai back on the big screen after a long hiatus . In fact , this film had a number of actors whom we haven't seen for a while . With Wai playing a police superintendent , the rest make up the triads . I haven't seen Julian Cheung take on a bad guy role before , even though his scheming character here is nothing to shout about . Regular insane character actor Francis Ng returns to his mould , although his performance here surpassed the recent Exiled and On the Edge . A welcome return is Jordan Chan , famed for his dynamic pairing with Ekin Cheng in the Young and Dangerous franchise , playing a hen - pecked and muddled gangster chief , and rounding up the triad organization at the top , is Eric Tsang , probably in a role we're so familiar with given his Infernal Affairs connection . Shawn Yue cameos too as an assassin with few words . Given the slew of movies in the same genre , you might balk at this one , given the low level publicity muscle , and probable thoughts of it emulating Election or Infernal Affairs . But the filmmakers perhaps realized the inevitable comparisons , and have early in the movie , given subtle jibes at those other movies , as a reminder that hey , we're from the same genre , but we're not emulating anyone , although the themes and plots might be threading the same ground . It doesn't take the typical microscopic look at the life of undercovers , but adopts a macroscopic view instead . Suggestions were provided as to how undercover cops lead their lives , and how much license they are given to walk on the wrong side of the law . Sadly this potentially interesting aspect wasn't looked into much , and came more of an afterthought following a surprising revelation . The usual scheming and double crossings surface rather fast and furious in the second half of the movie , and it's quite puzzling to wonder why a bit part mushy romance was thrown in to upset the pace . While the subplot might be used to gain some sympathy for the characters involved , it could have been a darker film should this aspect not be explored , and it's quite unnecessary at times . My guess would be actually for the actress to make some kind of debut performance and sharing the credits with a rather stellar cast . Or perhaps to highlight the point again that some gangsters do have hearts ( of gold ) as well . The finale , if wrapped up earlier , could have made the movie feel more compact and satisfying . However , it chose to end abruptly , and leaving things so open , there is room for a possible sequel . I won't hold my breath for that to happen though .
A Nutshell Review : Ming Ming	Ming Ming is a very stylized movie , but that's not to say it has more style than substance . Unattainable love and infatuation play central themes in Ming Ming's world , one which contains fantasy martial arts elements , set in today's contemporary era . The titular character played by Zhou Xun cuts a willowy figure , dressed in black with her long dark tresses . One night she casts her eye on D ( Daniel Wu ) , a street fighter whom she falls in love and spends a night with . D , on the other hand , is an elusive lover . With secrets of the past which he seeks to unlock , he's never committed , giving out a promise to whoever can fetch him 5 million dollars , and with whom he'll travel to Harbin with . This sets in motion an entire chain of events , starting with Ming Ming stealing the money and a secret box from Brother Cat ( the singer Jeff Chang , who has long been away from the public eye ) . On the other hand , Ming Ming's friend Ah Tu ( Tony Yang ) is also infatuated with her , and chances upon Nana ( Zhou Xun in her second role ) , with whom he brings along in their escape from Brother Cat's thugs , and whom too is also in love with D . Confused ? Don't be , as Nana is distinctively different from Ming Ming , from hair and outfit ( loud and garish ) to mannerisms , not forgetting the languages used . In fact , the movie can be renamed Nana , as this character had more screen time than Ming Ming , as we explore the unrequited love by so many characters in the movie . Love and its different incantations are put up on display , even parental ones , as the plot slowly unravels to its surprise ending . There are some zen like dialogue and moments in the movie , such as being able to be with a person even for a moment , is better than not being able to at all . And this is especially true for Ah Tu , even though he's with someone who resembles , and not with the actual person . I thought Nana and Ah Tu had the strongest storyline and the best character development , naturally so because of the screen time devoted to them . Accompanying the superb story are both the music and action . The soundtrack is an eclectic mix and fusion of various influences , from electronica to jazz , and the theme used for chases is particularly catchy . Given that it adopted a fantasy martial arts style , most of the fights , especially Ming Ming's , were given distinct looks . Ming Ming's especially , is one adopted from flicking explosive projectiles at her enemies , while D's style is quick , brutal , and very short ranged . Plot elements from such fantasy movies , like mini quests , and the seeking of treasure , are staples too in the movie . The filming style used is also a mixed bag , with repetitions , quick cuts and flashbacks the norm . It might require a little time to get used to , typically those used in fights . By the time you get through one or two action sequences , you'll be clamouring for more . Savour those moments , as they actually come few and far between . There are many " poser " moments as well , which gives the movie a certain " sexy " look as characters preen and pose when they deliver their dialogues . I guess I'm fortunate to have caught this movie here , in its original language track , as compared to having to watch the dubbed Mandarin version back in Singapore if it gets played . Key languages used - Mandarin , Cantonese and Shanghainese , provide a certain flavour and utilized to distinguish characters . inevitably the effect will be lost in any dubbed version . Zhou Xun , and Tony Yang too , at times sounded a bit off in their Cantonese diction , but that doesn't mar their performances , in particular Zhou Xun's excellent delivery of dual roles . For giving a contemporary fantasy martial arts movie a different and refreshing look , Ming Ming will get my vote .
A Nutshell Review : The Year of Living Vicariously	What strikes you when watching the documentary , is the split screen technique used . Amir Muhammad had taken a rare opportunity to follow an Indonesian film crew on their set of the movie Gie , a story set in the tumultuous transition of power between Presidents Sukarno and Suharto . What more , the movie was made in times of political uncertainty in Indonesia in the new millennium too . The split screen used wasn't a strict 50-50 split , but the sizes changed quite frequently from scene to scene . At times you see certain events with time juxtaposed between the screens , or events totally off tangent from one another . There are plenty of things to see and it served to be quite difficult to absorb fully the sights and sounds in just one sitting . Amir revealed that it was the first time he visited Indonesia , and so through the shoot and editing , he wanted to reflect that sensory overload in a country totally new to him . Also , they had a record number of tapes shot for this documentary , hence through the technique , enabled him to squeeze as much as he could within the run time constraint . The Year of Living Vicariously contained numerous interviews with cast and crew of Gie , be they the main leads , director , or even the cameo casts . The topics covered practically everything under the sun , but predominantly focused on current affairs and politics , in the earlier days of Sukarno / Suharto , and in the current political climate . There are quite a number of candid opinionated remarks which make you go hmm , or laugh out loud , or just poignant . And you could see shades of the style which will evolve into The Last Communist , with the song singing bits in overdrive in TLC . Probably one of the best parts about Vicariously , is the frequent interjections of folks telling Indonesian folk tales . I'm sure almost everyone in the audience love to hear stories of old , and stories spun from our neighbours ' rich history . All in all , an enjoyable movie , and after watching this and The Last Communist , I couldn't wait for Village Radio
A Nutshell Review : A Season for Love	It's been some time since I've watched a movie with a relative huge ensemble cast ( think the last was Crash ) , and little did I expect this Korean romance movie to boost the same too , with fine acting , good comedy and lots of love demonstrated in various ways . There are 4 separate stories in this film , and it's difficult for me to judge which of them is superior than the other . Each looked into its niche area , and have ample screen time to develop its story , though the characters do get intertwined in one another's story with little conscious interaction . The first concerns a firefighter and his girlfriend , who works in a TV station as a news translator for the mute . She's waiting for him to propose , focused on the rationale that given his dangerous job , she likes the idea of him having to think of her , to hesitate for a while before jumping into danger . He , on the other hand , is waiting for that perfect opportunity , setting and all , before popping the question . Initially I thought that this was the most stable of the relationships , until they hit a brick wall in their communications , and as usual , misunderstanding ensues . Breaking down of communications also happen between the firefighter and his soon-to-be sister-in-law , but that provided some of the best comedic situations in the movie . She's mute , and had her life saved by him ( but he fell for the sister , so don't ask ) . She works as a Snow White doll in a theme park , and gets infatuated with a painter who frequents the same park . However , she's slightly disfigured on her face , and hides behind the Snow White caricature all the time . I found this to be something that I could relate to , being shy , yet bold when hiding behind a mask . Given by the audience's reaction , this piece probably is the most popular with its identifiable theme of infatuation , and the cutesy way in which it got played out . The third story is about a mother-son relationship . The mother , being a career woman , hardly gets to interact with her child , and the son misses his mother badly . Until an illness confines her to the hospital bed , and they start to bond as mother-son would , given plenty of communication opportunities . However , as the story unfolds , it's also the most predictable of the lot . It's touching , but not as touching as the mother-son relationship in the Japanese movie Be With You last year . The last story , and perhaps the saddest of all , is between a boy and a girl who've broken up . The girl's stuck in a dead end job and yearns to be rescued by an economically stable guy , but the guy's she's in love with ( or used to be ) is perpetually stuck in unemployment . When they broke up , the circumstances under which it was told to him , brought him an entrepreneurial opportunity . He tries to woo back his love , and I felt that the ending for this segment was the best in the way it developed , with the fine cinematography of reflection and rain . The soundtrack is kept simple , with the theme song played over and over again in various situations . But somehow it's strange , that the same song , when played , seemed able to evoke the different emotions the situation wants from you . And that I'd tip my hat off to . Halfway through , I thought that it would make a nice Valentine's movie , with its bountiful picturesque and heartwarming moments . But by its ending , even though events played out is typical of a weepy , I'd still recommend it for this season of love , for the plain message of not taking a significant other , a loved one , for granted . Tell them " I Love You " , now .
A Nutshell Review : Twilight	Some friends balked at my preference of watching this movie first in place of other releases this week . I have to admit my interest was piqued at how it performed at the box office amongst the recent slew of less than stellar results by novel to film adaptations . Moreover , there was plenty of talk about how difficult a process it was to find the right cast for the lead roles , and the immense popularity of Stephenie Meyer's novels which had a re-imagining of the vampire / werewolf genre , especially amongst the girls ? Make no mistake , at its core Twilight is nothing but a romance through and through , which explains its fanbase . Set in a high school , it's the usual beautiful , aloof and new girl in town falling for literally the coolest dude on campus who's equally stand offish , but for reasons of course . While Bella Swan ( Kristen Stewart ) is fair and has her long brown locks in contrast with her skin colour , Edward Cullen ( Robert Pattinson ) looked as if he has plenty of foundation applied to his face and neck , with a dash of lipstick to add colour to his look . Oh , and his eyes change colours too , how cool is that ? So while the two hit it off on the wrong foot , a dashing and suave saving of the damsel who was like a deer caught in headlights , provided the catalyst for an intense romance that the two will develop . They consummate their passion in wild forests and atop treetops , and I tell you it's likely any girl would likely be charmed off her socks should a guy pull these stunts off . Standing in the way of the romance are the difficulties that Edward has to face continuously , in not succumbing to temptation to sink his teeth and suck her blood . Being together and hanging out means constantly keeping that vampire base instinct in check , while she becomes the unwitting temptress who has to distract his thoughts if his willpower becomes weak . There were a couple of departures from the usual vampire characters , and in this case , sunlight no longer is the bane of their existence , only that their skin will sparkle ala having a natural sheen of stardust . Purists of the genre will find this hard to swallow , as with their individual abilities , such as the ability to predict the future , and for Edward , the ability to read other people's minds , except for Bella's , which intrigues him and yet provide for a sense of fear , that everyone in general , fear what we don't understand ( Carmine Falcone said this in Batman Begins , which is so apt here ) . The movie was destined to succeed thanks to the chemistry of the leads and their sheer charisma . Kristen Stewart had a certain spunk and fearlessness in her when having to deal with her romantic emotions with possibly the best hunter on Earth , while at the same time has a tenderness that we always see whenever she's with family - her dad , her long distance calls with mom , and of course , the love of her life . Robert Pattinson brings about some really jealous protective stance to his object of desire , and if looks could kill , he would have floored their common enemy in a " normal " ( because the Cullens only kill animals ) vampire in James ( Cam Gigandet ) , who thrives on the thrill of the hunt , and sets his sights on Edward's Bella . There was some clinically brutal finishing off of enemies in this film which the camera flinched from , if only to decide not to mar the sweet romance underlying the story . Special effects wise by Industrial Light and Magic was nothing intrusive to have stole the thunder from the story or the acting , and there were some pretty nifty moments which were impressive , and I particularly liked the entire baseball game sequence which had a right mix of effects , and tension built into the story , which marked an increase pace of urgency thereafter . The score Carter Burwell was hauntingly beautiful , as were the carefully chosen songs to make up the soundtrack . I thought Catherine Hardwicke did a commendable job in making this film , and the word on the street is that she'll be replaced for the sequel which already is green lit . And it's not easy for such sequels to be approved given the lacklustre performance of novel adaptations such as The Dark is Rising , The Golden Compass and Eragon all getting canned after dismal performances in the box office . Unless of course this franchise of only four books want to follow in the footsteps of the successful Harry Potter movie franchise in having different directors at the helm , I feel that Hardwicke should be asked to return . Twilight took me by surprise , perhaps because I went in with low expectations and not having read the book ( though Wikipedia provided some spoiler filled synopsis which I deliberately looked out for ) , and thus the final result was nothing less than a refreshing take on a different universe of vampires that we're used to seeing on the big screen , as well as the charismatic leads which I felt was the clincher . Perfect as a date movie , and I guess even more so if you're out looking for eye candies . Set up for a sequel ( obviously ) with some nice placeholders to develop from , you can count me in for another ride when it comes rolling along .
A Nutshell Review : Infamous	Coming up with many movies on the flavour of the day is nothing new . Robin Hood had one by Patrick Bergin and Uma Thurman going head to head with Kevin Costner's , we have the clash of the space asteroids with Deep Impact and Armageddon , and volcanic eruptions with Volcano and Dante's Peak . One inevitably is more memorable than the other , partly because of the timing of the release , as well as the stars attached to the project . The biopics of Truman Capote had seen Capote make its way here in 2006 , while Infamous was being held back in its local release , until now . It's inevitable to compare the two movies . Just to get it out of the way , Capote has a better Truman Capote performance in Philip Seymour Hoffman , but in my opinion Infamous triumphs over everything else because it kept itself tight . While essentially the same story , with regards to Capote's intricate research into a Kansas family killing for his book In Cold Blood , and befriending the murderers inside the prison cell , there are many moments in Infamous where you do think that you're revisiting key scenes again , and suspect that such scenes probably stem from translating from the same script . But Infamous had crafted a more intimate look into Capote's life during this time , as well as examine his interactions with the people around him , in particular , that with Harper Lee ( Sandra Bullock ) . The wining , dining , mingling with the who's who of society and the stars of yesteryear are featured here as well , as is a Truman Capote who is more shrewd , calculative and at times manipulative , subconsciously or otherwise , talking behind other's backs , and using them as tests subjects on the sly . What I also liked was that it devoted some time to the friendship between Capote and Harper Lee , which was glossed over in the other film ( here it was alleged that Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird's Dill character , was based on Capote . Hmm ) . Infamous has more star power , even though the stars appear in short scenes throughout . There's Gwyneth Paltrow showcasing her vocals and performing a song ( which interpret it anyhow you want , I thought she could have been singing about her love loss with Brad Pitt ) , Sigourney Weaver , Isabella Rosellini , Daniel Craig as one of the murderers Perry Smith , and director Peter Bogdanovich who did Saint Jack . Perhaps what I thought was against the grain in terms of presentation , was the characters sans Capote , who were speaking to the camera at times in mock interviews , as they share their deepest thoughts on the enigmatic man . Toby Jones put up a commendable performance as the effeminate man ( the entire gay - feminine demeanour amplified in Infamous ) , but should you compare his Capote with Philip Seymour Hoffman's , then it'll just fall slightly short of the benchmark . And I was surprised that Toby Jones ' filmography included Dobby the House Elf in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets . If you've watched Capote , then you might consider giving Infamous one a skip because of the premise and storyline covered . However , if you felt that Hoffman's performance was the only saving grace in Capote , then you might want to watch this to see how much better that could have been , should this story based on the George Plimpton book be used instead .
A Nutshell Review : Fail Safe	I've enjoyed some of Stephen Frears past works like High Fidelity , Mrs Henderson Presents and his latest The Queen , so I was intrigued enough to pick up a DVD movie released some 8 years ago made for television , a CBS TV special that was broadcast live during the time . I'd bet it was a novelty and I could have seen it before , but nonetheless it didn't stop me from sitting through this rather gripping drama from start to end . Filmed in black and white , Fail Safe is set during the Cold War , where hostilities between the US and the Soviets are at an all time high , and military doctrine on both sides dictate world annihilation should anyone decide to provoke the other by firing off their nukes to the other's territory . And to ensure they don't get caught offguard , the US military has a system of checks and balances to ensure continuity of their battle plans even if there's a break in the chain of command , a mixture of fail safe elements involving processes , hardware and the men who take instructions down the line . Except for having to deal with Murphy's Law . In certain aspects , it might seem like Stanley Kubrick's Dr Strangelove , but this movie , based upon the novel by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler , doesn't include satire , and played it out in more serious tones , where there are enough going on that keeps it fast paced . The story revolves around four fronts , each having to face their own dilemma and having to contemplate their actions , and those which have moral implications , are always never easy to be dealt with . From the top you have the President ( Richard Dreyfuss ) and his Russian translator Buck ( Noah Wyle ) trying to convince the Russian premier about what's going to happen , and to defuse potential hostilities while at the same time having to build trust . You got to hand it to Dreyfuss for his role here in political gambit , acting with opposite Wyle , and a phone . The second front takes place in a war room where generals and think tanks trade blows in deciding what next to advise the president , with some naturally urging restraint , while others wanting to seize the opportunity to gain the upper hand through an accidental pre-emptive strike . Harvey Keitel goes up against Hank Azaria here , as a Brigadier General whom the President trusts , up against some dangerous philosophy of Professor Groeteschele's . The third front perhaps has the most actors placed in a single set , the war room where a complete view of how the plot is unfolding , gets put on display here . Loyalties come into question , and so does basic human decency . The characters here are also mixed and provides a more balanced view , from the military with Brian Dennehy and John Diehl , to politicians represented by Sam Elliott , and the vendor who provides the military with the computerized hardware , as represented by James Cromwell . Last but not least , the fly boys who are on the execution ( pardon the pun ) front , perhaps there to provide some possibility for action , but again , the sets are purpose built on soundstages . George Clooney and Don Cheadle partner in this area as they play guess and second guessing each other , being cut off from the chain of command , and as per their training , are out to carry their mission to a T , regardless what else they are told . Fail Safe tells a precautionary tale , that while we may plan for every conceivable scenario using a siege like mentality , there really isn't a totally fool-proof plan , and there are bound to be loopholes or cracks due to the assumptions we have to take or accept . Do we trust a human to make a judgement call , or rely on a calculating machine to do so based on predicates and cold logic ? And what if the machine fails , do we know enough that it is wrong , and what measures there are to be placed for rectification ? Can we do that fast enough ? There are of course enough movies out there with machines like HAL and SkyNet going rogue , and addressing similar issues . Ultimately it's about control - when do we decide to relinquish , and whether we are able to seize it back when the need calls for it - and the moral dilemma that comes with weighted decisions that has repercussions beyond the immediate .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Ronin ( 1998 )	I have a good friend who's been raving about how good this film is , and it took me actually this long to watch it . At its time , I suppose the plot's intriguing , with betrayals being the only constant in a complex cat and mouse game in the streets of France . Robert De Niro plays Sam , a mercenary who joins a band of merry men of various shady background in a mission to grab a metal briefcase from a group of heavily armed men . Amongst the team are various ex-secret agency folks , like Vincent ( Jean Reno ) , Spence ( Sean Bean ) , Deirdre ( Natascha McElhone ) , Gregor ( Stellan Skarsgard ) and Larry ( Skipp Sudduth ) . Will too many crooks spoil the broth ? It plays out like the first Mission Impossible movie in its level of sophistication and mission preparation , although this movie has loads of gunplay , and the best part , the car chases . It's BMWs , Peugeots , Mercedez , continental cars of various makes , making slick maneuvers through narrow streets and along busy highways . Definitely top notch work , without the use of digital technology , but relying on good old stunt driving . The plot might be confusing for some , so my advice is keep your eyes and ears really peeled to what's going on screen . Before you can say " Betrayal " , it's double and sometimes triple crossings between characters aligning themselves with their various factions , and of supporting characters from CIA , KGB , IRA all working towards obtaining that steel briefcase , whose contents are never revealed . Robert De Niro and Jean Reno pair off really well as strangers forced to work together amidst a world of lies and deceit , and bring about certain flair to their roles and camaraderie . It's an interesting film , a little dated , but exciting enough nonetheless . Code 1 DVD contains an alternate ending .
A Nutshell Review : S . P . L .	I was full of hope for this movie , mainly because of its stellar cast of Simon Yam , Samo Hung and Donnie Yen , and the hype up confrontation cum battle between the latter two on screen . With their martial arts background , action fans will be in for a treat . Also , with the string of disappointments so far with Mob Sister and Election ( the edited version shown here ) , I'd thought that this one would've lived up to its potential ( no coincidence that Yam was in the other 2 films mentioned ) . While I enjoyed the movie and its build up , I felt particularly let down by the ending . The beginning of the movie with its explanation of the background of the Chinese Astrology the film identifies itself with ( hence the acronym SPL ) would have set the expectation , but perhaps its the execution that I couldn't come to terms with . Then again , it provided one of the better special effects / stunt shots . It could ( and I am speculating here ) the ending was such cos " I'm the bigger star here " . But I'm digressing . It's a cops-and-robbers story that has set its main focus simply at cops going all out to nab the robber . Simon Yam and his team of maverick cops share their common hatred for Samo Hung , the same way that Kevin Costner's Elliot Ness and his Untouchables do with Robert De Niro's Al Pacino . They try to nail the mobster , but each time he goes scot free . Things get interesting when opportunity presents itself , as morality gets questioned , and highlights the good / bad / ugly , black / white / gray situations that cops sometimes find themselves in with that universal question - Do the means matter to justify the end ? Thrown into the fray is hotshot-ultracool demeanour cop Donnie Yen , who is supposed to take over from Yam as the latter is set to retire over the Father's Day weekend . He too has his loyalties challenged when he learns of the plot that Yam and team pulls . What appeals is the way these characters get sucked into a chain of events that neither can pull out from - does fate / destiny / the stars all determine the chain of events that follow ? The subplots get in the way sometimes , as the pace for the events that follow that weekend gets broken up for sentimentality - Yam's taking care of a little girl smells like Mob Sister's , a cop buddy's love for his estranged daughter bears some resemblance to The Rock's Sean Connery , and Samo Hung's love for his wife and newborn child interrupts tense moments with its dreamy mobile phone ring tone . I was also wondering whether Simon Yam found it deja-vu to be driving Yen around in a car , showing their jurisdiction - seemed too familiar with a similar scene in Election where he was driving Tony Leung around to show him their territory . Though you might expect to see punches fly between Yen and Hung , and with its M18 rating , you really don't get to see punches until at least 30 minutes into the movie . While the fight between the two upstages Daredevil's ( hero versus over-sized Kingpin ; I'm still amazed by Samo's agility at his age ) , it's really the battle between Yen and newcomer Jing Wu ( an uber-violent knife wielding villain ) that is the highlight and makes this movie worth the price of admission . It's fast , slick , violent , and beautifully choreographed , you'd just wish it could've been longer . Violent it is , and uncensored , but it doesn't get too gratuitous with blood . The fight sequences stand out for its stark brutality , and perhaps also for its realism . You must forgive the acting at times though , as there's nothing to shout about really . Simon Yam is the no-nonsense , but willing to bend the rules cop , Donnie Yen with his over-confident attitude , and Hung just hams it up as the cigar chomping Kingpin of Crime . But perhaps I would like to shout about the introduction of Yam's team to the audience when Yen visited their empty office - it's very retro , with the characters given the spotlight after undergoing a short action sequence in a police raid . On the whole , the movie works , up till the supposed ending which put me off , and where the final " hurrah " brings it down a little . It has many stylized moments accompanied with an upbeat soundtrack , but it's substance over style that matters sometimes . I'd recommend it for the stylo-mylo moments , the alleyway fight , and the suggestion that not everything can be categorized into black and white .
A Nutshell Review : Vicky Cristina Barcelona	Woody Allen seems to have a riot of a time making movies outside of New York , and truth be told , I find them pretty enjoyable , though some would argue I should revisit his earlier films to understand what's great . Then again , his " muse " Scarlett Johansson and a more contemporary cast are an interesting mix to gain a fresh following from a new generation of audiences like myself , lapping it up on Allen's wit , narrative creativity and candy eye cast . The reason why Barcelona was chosen , and hence in the title , was because the City had sponsored Allen to make his movie there . I guess if Uniquely Singapore would do so , this could have been Vicky Cristina Singapore . Then again , I suspect some boardroom terms and conditions might have made it very pro-tourism video like . Of some of the earlier co - productions I have seen with the Lion City's money pumped in , you can't help but feel that shots of our landmarks almost always come across as something made for corporate videos , and relied plenty on those tracking shots , or worse , dug out from archives . But in the hands of maestros , this feeling somehow doesn't even come into the picture . Landmarks become just another non-intrusive backdrop , or worked carefully that they become essential to the story without drawing attention to themselves . I guess we could all learn from this film how to do reward a city that graciously allows itself to be filmed and filmed using some of its investment . Vicky Cristina Barcelona is so titled because it is a tale of the two titular best friends Vicky ( Rebecca Hall ) and Cristina ( Scarlett Johansson ) who spend their summer vacation in the Catalan city . It's an exploration of contemporary relationships using two characters whose view on love comes from total opposites . For Vicky , it's all built on the foundation of commitment , of being very structured and organized about it . For Cristina , a failed short filmmaker by her own standards , it's to take the bull by the horns , and to grab relationship opportunities in a rather cavalier manner . In a test of their resolve , they meet newly minted star Javier Bardem who plays Juan Antonio , a suave , witty and sweet talking painter who audaciously suggests that they travel with him , and thereafter sleep with him . For Vicky it is near impossible given that she's on the verge of getting married and a definite contradiction of her principles , but to Cristina , it is a plus point in have a complete stranger come up and telling them honestly what he wants to do with them . So begins the exploration of love and relationships in 3 acts . The start is a bit slow as Vicky gets to have a spanner thrown in her plans , that once you've tasted the forbidden fruit , you'll likely be clamouring for more . It's a wake up call and examination of a life that she thinks she wants to have , versus one that she probably would like to have and enjoy it a lot more . It's the classic tussle between freedom , and being shackled , of conforming to the idea that being successful means a good career with an equally career-successful husband , in an artificially created lifestyle involving small talk with colleagues / friends and the likes . Cristina's dalliance with Juan Antonio shows how their carefree attitudes and bohemian lifestyles might attract and inspire each other to greater heights and the pursuit of new dreams and skills , though I welcomed the arrival of Maria Elena ( Penelope Cruz ) somewhere at the halfway point , feisty and temperamental ex-wife of Juan Antonio , as she stirs the pot a lot more , and truly the three of them engage in quite a parasitical lifestyle , feeding off one another's energy , sexual and otherwise . All the cast members perform up to expectations , though I reckon that Scarlett haters will continue to loathe her presence here . Javier Bardem does an about turn from his extremely dead serious role in No Country for Old Men , and here he's quite the Casanova in his pursuit of women . It doesn't have plenty of big moments and never lapses into melodrama . Events get presented as is , without the need to exaggerate , and it's always a plus point to have a dash of humour added as well in Allen's signature style . It might seem fresh and breezy on the outside , but underneath its veneer is some serious study into human romantic relationships that you'll be left pondering for some time after the end credits roll .
A Nutshell Review : Rumor Has It	Based on a true rumor , the premise of the movie was set up oh-so perfectly , especially if you're a fan of Mike Nichols ' 1967 Dustin Hoffman-Anne Bancroft movie , The Graduate ( with its immortal line uttered again in this film ) . It's pretty creative to have that story and characters intertwined with the narrative of this movie . In this Jennifer Aniston vehicle ( is it always that the wives of more famous husbands get meatier roles when they break up ? ) , she plays an obituary writer ( another fashionable job since Jude Law became one in Closer ) Sarah Huttinger , who's the fiancée of Jeff Daly ( Mark Ruffalo ) . However , she's commitment phobic and is getting cold feet each time Jeff brings up marriage , and it doesn't help that they're attending her sister's ( Mena Suvari ) , therefore meeting her dad ( Richard Jenkins ) and other relatives she can't get along with . But rumor after rumor , and having realize that her deceased mother had gone for a fling before her own marriage , Sarah begins an investigative hunt into those ( un ) faithful days , and with probing for more information from her grandma Katharine ( Shirley MacLaine ) , she discovers Beau Burroughs ( Kevin Costner ) , the man whom Dustin Hoffman's Ben was modeled after . So it goes that the writer of The Graduate , Charles Webb , is a close friend of Beau , and the story is based loosely on his dalliances with Katharine . Which also means , as Sarah discovers , that the book and movie , is based on her family ! But it gets better ( or is it worse ? ) as Sarah herself falls for Beau and has a one-night stand , bringing to mind all the dirty , sick thoughts of possible incest . The audience gets teased every now and then when you attempt to piece together the possible relationships between the characters , and it gets worse as we go along , until the final revelation at the end . It's amazing too how you become glued to the story , despite its simplicity in its themes . Which is surprisingly not romantic relationship per se , which got shoved to the sidelines , but that of commitment . It tries to examine what makes people stick to each other , and what it takes to accept , forgive , and find courage to move on . If you're bringing your date to his movie , have the correct mindset - it's not just another simple date movie , but one which sets both of you thinking . It's got some kick in it too , all thanks to references to The Graduate movie . Lifting this movie is again the veterans of Shirley MacLaine and Richard Jenkins . MacLaine has played the grandma role to two sisters earlier this year in In Her Shoes . However , this is not a simple rehash of the role , as this one's a little more slapstick , a little more Mrs Robinson , a little more caustic in language and character , but a lot lot lesser screen time . Richard Jenkins too plays the familiar father figure who stands by his daughters , ala his dad role in North Country shown earlier . No doubt that their roles are small , but their characters , all powerful . Kevin Costner seems to be moving to making smaller movies . I won't say that he's excellent in this movie , because it felt like it was a stroll in the park . Having him falling for and romancing a younger woman in Aniston , was similar to his role last year in The Upside of Anger . All eyes though will be on Jennifer Aniston , as her character has certain takes on relationships that cut a little close to her real life split and how she moved on . It's a movie which you think the trailers had revealed all , but trust me , it delivered a lot more than what the trailers suggested . It's fun , witty , and refreshing to a certain extent . Do give this movie a watch if spoilt for choices from the Oscar contenders amongst the crowded theater schedules .
A Nutshell Review : Twilight Samurai	This film chronicles the life of Seibei Iguchi , as told through the eyes of one his daughters . The film starts off with the unfortunate death of his wife , and he's left alone to bring up 2 young daughters , and a senile mother , much to the neglect of his own welfare . Despite being a lowly-ranked samurai , life is adequately comfortable , in an era of change and the coming of the end of the Meiji era . His life takes a turn when childhood sweetheart , and recent divorcée Tomoe Iinuma , re-enters his life . Protecting her from her violent ex-husband , love is rekindled between the two again , but Seibei , conscious of his low ranking status , is reluctant to declare his true feelings for Tomoe . It's a love story weaved into a Yoki Yamada samurai movie , and somehow I can't help but to compare and noticed some similarities between this movie , and The Hidden Blade . Politics also feature strongly in both movies , as do typical samurai themes of honour , and clan hierarchy and orders . If you're expecting to see many swordplay from the Twilight Samurai , you might be a tad disappointed . There are only 2 fight scenes in this film , one with Seibei using a wooden sword to teach Tomoe's ex-husband a lesson , and the other , a fight to the death with a clan rebel in the confines of an old house . But violence has never been Seibei's character , and fights are only seen as either a last resort ( using a non-lethal weapon ) , or only when loathing and reluctantly carrying out orders from his clan . This is a simple story of a man struggling with providing for his family , and the coming to terms within himself to be honest with his feelings . Only when faced with his own mortality , does he find the courage to do so . It is beautifully filmed , and is no wonder that it was garnered many awards in Japan's Academy Awards in 2004 , and nominated to be in competition at the Oscars as Japan's entry .
A Nutshell Review : The Hidden Blade	The Hidden Blade The Hidden Blade refers to a dreaded samurai sword skill , which you will see only towards the end of the film . Folks , who like me initially thought that this is one of the usual samurai slugfest , may be disappointed that it's not . But like mentioned in the movie , killing is only a last resort , and even samurais themselves are fearful of death in duels . But hey , don't jump the gun ( pun not intended ) just yet . This film has a story to tell , and a poignant one at that . Simply put , it tells of a story about a small town samurai whose village is caught in the transition period of Japan's modernization and introduction of western arms ( guns and cannons ) and fighting tactics . While struggling to understand the rapid changes taking place in the nation , he has to deal with relationships of the heart with his family's maid , whom he adores but afraid to own up to , and the dilemma of being ordered into a duel with one of this long time friends , whom has gone off the right track . This film explores many themes , one of which is the samurai code of honour , where committing suicide via disembowelment ( hara-kiri ) is widely accepted as a practice of maintaining that honour . We also see the bastardization of this honour , of corruption , which brings to mind George Orwell's Animal Farm , where some animals are created more equal than others . The protagonist samurai Munezo often put his head on the line while maintaining that code , even when all else around ( including his superiors ) put pressure on him into making compromises . How many of us will rigidly uphold our values and principles when faced with adversity ? Or will we bow to that pressure and be apologetic for it ? We are also shown the caste system in feudal Japan , which proved to be a stumbling block between the relationship of Munezo and his family maid Kie . The village clan frowned upon and gossips about Munezo's rescue of Kie from her abusive marriage . While the motive may seem justifiable , we all know Munezo's real reason - that he loves her and cannot bear to see her being abused , and ultimately losing her life . Both know that with the caste system , they can never be together . Or can they ? The caste system doesn't only apply to relationships of the heart . Even within samurais , this system applies . Munezo is a small samurai in a small village , and is given little respect by samurais belonging to larger clans and cities . Think of it like the army , where foot soldiers have to " Yes Sir " every officer's instructions - even when it means given the order to kill an old friend who has gone fugitive . Munezo again struggles with this , but knows that as long as he's a samurai , orders are to be obeyed . Change and modernization is central to the story . And in this film , there are numerous hilarious moments as the samurais in training as a modern army come to grips with strange rituals like foot drills , the handling of modern weaponry , and even the way they run . It's something like Tom Cruise's Last Samurai , only that the training's more comical here , and subtly highlights the dangers losing of one's cultural values when the world moves rapidly in change . And finally , for those really waiting for a slugfest , there are 2 fight scenes in the entire movie . One is when Munezo seeks his old master for new guidance , and is being taught a new skill / trick . The other is when Munezo meets his longtime friend for a final showdown . Do not expect " wuxia " styled swordfights . Think Star Wars : A New Hope , the duel between Darth Vader and Obi-wan Kenobi . The duel happens with measured strokes and strategy , rather than fast paced action everyone's used to these days . But again , the emphasis here is not on violence . It's a simple tale with powerful themes , and you will applaud when The Hidden Blade is finally used , justly .
A Nutshell Review : Ayat-Ayat Cinta	Fahri ( Fedi Nuril ) is an Indonesian religious student who's studying in a prestigious religious university in Egypt . He's the all round nice guy , who's pious as he is moderate in his values , as well as being the resident stud with whom every female he has the fortune to meet , falls head over heels with . To some of us , this seems like heaven , but seriously , it's more trouble that Fahri can ever imagine . Through him , we learn a little bit more about Islam , and his little fights against extremism , and correcting those who conveniently hide behind being deliberately out of context . Naturally this charm of sincerity and standing up for the underdog brings him admirers . First there's fellow student Nurul ( Melanie Putria ) , whom Fahri and his friends go to for academic assistance , because of her ties with their professor . She takes a liking of Fahri because he's probably a genius to her eyes , and being the best looking amongst the cohort of course . Then there's Noura ( Zaskia Adya Mecca ) , a poor soul who's constantly abused in public by her father , whom Fahri takes pity and rescues . For Noura , it is obvious she's in love with her knight in shining armour , while Fahri , in his heart , sincerely just took pity on her . There's Maria ( Carissa Putri ) of the Christian faith , one of the first Fahri meets in his student days , and as his neighbour , they share a lot of time together in studies and play , and both find good virtues with one another , coming close to ending their search for soulmates . That is , until Fahri meets Aisyah ( Rianti Rhiannon Cartwright ) , a German Muslim with whom I think most guys would go for without a doubt - someone who shares the same religion and has deep affinity for it , a loaded family so cares for material wealth takes a backseat , and probably best of all , which I think the director Hanung Bramantyo teased on purpose , is a stunner behind that veil that she wears ( you can hear gasps of exasperation when trick camera angles were used to hide her facial features ) . If you were Fahri , who would you choose ? In keeping to the spirit of not spoiling it for you , I shan't tell too . Of course he chooses one , based on certain criteria of his own , which doesn't surprise ( hey , we're guys OK ? ) , but the manner in which it was presented , made it seem rather shallow and superficial , whence it should be something more of a deeper connection that he should feel for his wife to be . Anyway things are never rosy with a marriage , and soon enough , melodrama dictates that his marriage will be on the rocks since husband and wife hardly know each other - with a matchmade like ritual being the bridge between two hearts - and a more severe trial being put in their way , which calls for the courts to be involved . As mentioned , Ayat-Ayat Cinta never fail in finding opportunity to talk about religion , and in fact I enjoyed such moments as its principles can be applied regardless of your own personal beliefs , as they are universal and would be in agreement with any reasonable person . And it brings to mind certain things we do too , such as the doubts that creep into the minds of even the most pious , when it seemed that the almighty had somewhat forsaken us when we are stuck in a rut that we believe couldn't happen to us since we should be in God's good books constantly for putting his sayings into practice . But I guess the old man above has his own sense of humour and share of wanting to shake things up a little to separate those who pay lip service only , from those who are truly sincere . Given that the story's central theme is on love , you don't really get much of that until the last act which lasts not more than 20 minutes on screen . Touching on love and sacrifice , you'd wonder how those who have polygamous relationships handle the requirements of it all , and the superb time management which they supposedly possess . Juggling multiple girlfriends or dates is a piece of cake , although sometimes there's always that very few close shaves . Juggling more than one wife under the same roof , calls for some serious soul searching , and the obvious courting of trouble with a capital T . While there are those with virtues like patience , tolerance and the likes , I doubt many women out there would willingly ( and this is the keyword ) share their husbands with another woman . Here , it's out of circumstance to save his own rear , at least how it was played out , despite obvious clues that it wasn't , and it again serves as a reminder to think through this vowed devotion very thoroughly , before taking the plunge . It boils down to being fair , being honest and being sincere , versus what you think might be pleasing in the eyes of a deity . Again without spoiling it , you do feel for the character who has to make this call and sacrifice . Love hurts , doesn't it from time to time ? Ayat-Ayat Cinta in its separate acts , have moments which stand out and fulfill their purpose , but when strung together , you'd feel that there are plenty more it could have addressed without relegating some issues to the backseat , and of course some minor elements which could've been dropped . I guess like the relationships in the movie , it had to pick and choose its battles , and what was delivered was still engaging enough to sit through .
A Nutshell Review : Bobby	The name Kennedy is probably as close to " royalty " in the US as it can get , and it is of no surprise that the tragic events of the Kennedy brothers inspired movies to be made in their names . John F Kennedy , the 35th President of the USA , was assassinated in Dallas , Texas in 1963 , and conspiracy theorists had a field day in suspecting there's more than meets the eye . I still remembered the day I watched Oliver Stone's JFK in the cinemas , and as a teen was captivated by the movie , which really went on and on and on with the stock archive footage of the shooting . While some have dismissed the movie as propaganda , I thought Roger Donaldson's Thirteen Days was intriguing enough , highlighting perhaps JFK's defining moment in office in tackling of the Bay of Pigs / Cuban Missile Crisis . Also starring Kevin Costner ( not in any Kennedy role ) , this movie had JFK's brother Robert ( Bobby ) Kennedy featured as well , as he was the Attorney General of the time , and together , with others , have orchestrated a favourable outcome to the crisis . But alas , when Bobby was in the run-up for the US Presidency , he was unceremoniously gunned down in the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles in 1968 . Bobby the movie is set on that fateful day , so it must be cautioned that this is not a bio-pic , as it takes a broader look at the events of the day , and peeks into the dramatized lives of others around him who suffered collateral damage , in an era marred by steady violence and intolerance in society . What will probably catch your eye in Bobby , is the huge ensemble cast . And I mean huge . Even at the half hour mark , there are prominent actors still popping up to be counted . Familiar names in the cast include big names , has-beens , recognizable faces from the 80s and 90s , and the starlets of today - Emilio Estevez , Laurence Fishburne , Heather Graham , Anthony Hopkins , Helen Hunt , Ashton Kutcher , Lindsay Lohan , William H Macy , Demi Moore , Freddy Rodriguez , Martin Sheen , Christian Slater , Sharon Stone , Mary Elizabeth Winstead , and Elijah Wood . I would guess that Emilio Estevez might have had a difficult time in managing so many talents in this movie , written and directed by himself , and I was surprised at the end result - that it is a good movie , even though you'd know the outcome . Yes there are plenty of stars , and in effect each of them have their little individual story arcs to flesh their characters , although sometimes they do fall into their typecast , like Fishburne's character spouting philosophy ala his Matrix's Morpheus , or Heather Graham as the typical sexy blonde . Some story arcs are interesting , though nothing is too sophisticated , which takes off that certain shine of brilliance . Some arcs too are totally weird and probably there for the laugh factor , but on hindsight , it was a reflection of the sign of the times , of free love , drugs , rock and roll . I thought it was neat that Estevez decided against casting Bobby , and instead chose to elevate his character through archive footage , and voiceovers using some of his speeches . You get to see the real Bobby , and get to hear his voice , as he delivers passionate thoughts about working together , peace and harmony , things and themes that still ring true even in today's context . I guess such is the universal appeal , and a small clue that you can use to imagine how wildly popular he was amongst the minority groups at the time . The movie had an awesome soundtrack , and what took me by surprise was the inclusion of Simon and Garfunkel's The Sound of Silence . It was used as the song in the opening credits of The Graduate ( one of my favourite films as well ) , and I thought it was one of the best opening sequences , and to hear it again in the context of Bobby , was just wow . The song at the end credits , written by Bryan Adams and performed by Aretha Franklin and Mary J Blige - Never Gonna Break My Faith , was pleasing as well , though it was nominated for the Golden Globes , but didn't cut it for the Academy . For movie buffs , you will also probably grin at the many movie related trivia and mentions in Bobby . There are plenty of positive " what-ifs " in the movie , which seem to suggest that things would have been vastly different should the tragedy not happen , but that , sadly , will remain as questions of history . It's nominated for Best Picture at the Golden Globes , so that should suggest something on the pedigree of this movie . I'd recommend it for the star gazing as well , and do watch this soon as it's only playing at two GV cinemas .
A Nutshell Review : You Don't Mess With The Zohan	Comedies go up against each other at the local box office , with Adam Sandler squaring off against Steve Carell , and incidentally , both lead characters in their movies are of the spy / special forces kind , with Sandler's Zohan Dvir being the top Israeli counter-terrorist operative , and Carell's Maxwell Smart thinking he's the best , working for the CONTROL organization to bring down KAOS . Just which agent will outdo the other remains to be seen , but I thought Zohan had opportunity before throwing it away when it goes back to the usual sacharrine sweet ending with a nicely inserted moral message of peace and harmony . Directed by Dennis Dugan who helmed comedies like The Benchwarmers and the recent Adam Sandler movie I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry , You Don't Mess With The Zohan has its title come across as a warning to those who cross the Zohan's path . In every sense of the word , Zohan is Israel's # 1 superhero for his superhuman strength , speed , agility , and just about being as indestructible as Superman , without that heat ray bursting through his eyes . Having killed many in his lifetime , he seeks a life away from the glitz , glamour and hero worship in his homeland , and harbours a secret desire to style hair , with the ambition to make the world Silky Smooth ! Going up against his arch-enemy The Phantom ( John Turturro ) , he fakes his own death , and finds his way to New York , where under a pseudonym Scrappy Coco , he exhibits the much stereotyped mannerisms that all male hairdressers have broken wrists . Yes people , Zohan would be quite offensive to some , as the jokes come hard and fast when it comes to race ( there are tons of Arab jokes here , mostly putting them in bad light ) , politics ( even wives of prominent politicians are unspared ) and plenty of sexual inneundoes , perhaps no thanks to the writing input from Judd Apatow , who gave us flicks like Superbad ( super-sized dong anyone ? ) , 40-Year Old Virgin , and the likes . If you don't mind politically incorrect flicks , then Zohan would be right up your alley , where no orifice is sacred . So has Sandler sunk to a new low ? Perhaps not , but I think he's in need of a boost to his career , which seemed to have stagnated with fairly plain comedic flicks such as Longest Yard and I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry , and even Click , perhaps being loaded with a tad bit of drama and feel good messages . And it doesn't really help when personally I still think that Spanglish was his best non-comedic work which stuck to me , for some reason . He tries to reinvent himself , but I feel he's still quite a distance away from peers like Mike Myers who comes up with crazy characters every now and then ( am looking forward to the troubled and controversial Love Guru ) , and even Sacha Baron Cohen ( whom I'm looking forward to his Bruno ) . Here , Sandler's Zohan relies on both his amazing prowess to bring down the bad guys , as well as his over-sized crotch to seduce plus sized and elderly women who come visit him for a haircut , and extra special services he dishes out . Granted they bring on the laughs , and there were some really genuine funny moments to compensate for some expected laughs on the horizon . But aside from that , the story's pretty much lost its direction after the mid-way point , where it couldn't decide whether to be an all out romance flick , with Zohan getting stiff for his salon owner Dalia ( Emmanuelle Chriqui ) , or to focus on the aged old dispute between the two cultures where fellow immigrants and enemies find out his true identity , and revive their aged old feud in a foreign land . There were some bewildering scenes that seemed to have , like the mentioned threads , been abandoned halfway , for example , with the rallying of troops to the game of Hacky Sack . Nonetheless , what's an Adam Sandler movie without the list of cameo appearances to spice things up ? Here you get Rob Schneider who makes regular cameo or supporting character appearances in a Sandler movie , together with Chris Rock , Mariah Carey who hams up her Diva status , Kevin James his co-star from Chuck and Larry , and even George Takei , whom I thought was a strange cameo given that he just came out of the closet recently , and gets himself involved in a somewhat homophobic scene . You Don't Mess With The Zohan doesn't always hit the mark , but it surely has enough moments in its close to 2 hour runtime to make it worthwhile to sit through and enjoy . Only if you prefer your comedy to be politically incorrect , of course . P . S . Am just wondering how many will emulate that crazy accented " Nononono " .
A Nutshell Review : Dying at a Hospital	I'm eagerly awaiting to watch the other Ichikawa Jun movies because the only one I've seen to date is Tony Takitani . The styles used in Takitani and Dying at a Hospital are no less at opposite ends of the spectrum . Takitani had the camera constantly flowing , if I recall correctly , from left to right , as if turning the pages of a book , and provided a somewhat natural scene transition . But in Dying , the camera stays so still , it's like watching a stage play unfold right in front of you , and fade to black transitions , for almost all scenes , was the preferred technique used . Ichikawa captured the feel of a hospital succinctly . Recently , there was talk by our Health Minister with regards to allowing people to die at home , versus spending their last days in the confines of an institution , and I thought this film would have backed that reasoning perfectly . I've had my fair share of stays in hospitals / medic wards in my younger days , and it's no fun being in that environment . Watching the movie , it brought back memories when I was visited by doctors for Q & A and nurses for the periodic miscellaneous checks and pill popping , and being hooked up to a drip was no fun , especially when you need to go to the bathroom . In a public ward , sometimes you do see the frail and the very weak , and family members shuffling into and out of the wards come visiting hours , some with tears in their eyes . Despite its sterile environment , there's somehow this overhanging sense of sadness looming around the corner . It's a mixture of fictional narrative short stories , interspersed with non-fictional documentary styled shots of various random scenes depicting the whizzing by of everyday life , outside of the hospital of course . It's as if you're witness to the struggles that the sick and the dying face within the four walls , while time waits for nobody . The short stories too were different from one another , involving an elderly couple who wished to stay together in sickness and in health , a vagrant who was picked up on the street , whose story was quite cold and sad in that there's obviously no instances where there are visitors made up on friends and family , and I particularly liked the story which served as the closing - an extremely touching piece . All the short stories are self-contained , but when strung together in a movie like this , provides a kaleidoscope issues you'd come to expect from a typical day at the hospital , especially when the narration ( is it a hallmark of Ichigawa movies ? ) comes from different perspectives , which included doctors , patients and even nurses . A quiet , contemplative piece with a sense of hope in its closing remarks , you seldom see the facial expressions of the characters up close , as the camera mimics the usual distance one would most times keep from the other patients ( at least for me , for reasons unknown ) , in curious to know more , but yet want to maintain that emotional detachment .
A Nutshell Review : Serendipity ( 2001 )	So a pair of black cashmere gloves on a Christmas shopping trip brought two attractive strangers together , and they proceed to spend the most incredible night together at a cafe and an ice skating ring . However , the girl is a New Age Spirituality freak , and makes it oh so damn difficult for the guy to get anything out of her , even her name ! It just drives a man insane , and she proceeds to make it so challenging and leave everything to Fate - Jonathan Trager ( John Cusack ) had to write his name and contact number on a five dollar bill , which Sara ( Kate Beckinsale ) proceeded to use , and if the note comes back to her because of Fate , she'll give him a call . On the other hand , she wrote hers on a book , which she will sell to a second hand book store , for Jonathan to look for and browse at each time he passes by a store . However another serendipitous game in a hotel finally made them part ways , but parting is such sweet sorrow , and each of them take active steps in seeking out each other when Fate comes aknocking - Jonathan seeks out Sara's last name , while Sara takes a trip to New York , and both make round trips around the Big Apple , revisiting places they have been to together . Fans of American Pie will cheer at the small scene where Eugene Levy appears as a conniving anal Bloomdale's salesman . And I like the scene using the Godfather movies as an analogy which Jonathan uses to explain his crush for Sara . While the couples shared Cassiopeia , I'll never forget my own Orion moment . The surprising thing though , is that you might bat an eyelid during the introduction . Both couples have their respective other halves ( engaged , going to get married ) , but proceed to flirt so closely and strongly with each other , and to seek each other out . OK , perhaps Sara's Zen-music boyfriend is a bit of a jerk ( it always plays out that way yeah ? ) but this is a Hollywood romance after all , one that deals with a fortunate accident . I've always been a fan of John Cusack - he's one of those underrated character actors in nice quirky movies ; High Fidelity's still one of my favourites , and the soundtrack in this film is pretty cool too . And Kate Beckinsale , OK I confess , is the real reason why I'm watching this movie . They share a certain chemistry which is so enjoyable you're rooting for them to get back together as soon as possible to experience the magic again . So if you're feeling in the mood for a bit of cruel Fate filled romance comedy , then Serendipity is for you . Cuddle up with a loved one and pop this DVD into the player . Serendipity moments ? Anytime for me : - P Code 1 DVD Extras : The gem in the extras are the deleted scenes . As mentioned above , some might bat an eyelid at the flirtation scene in which their respective partners are quickly forgotten . The deleted scenes were worse , so probably that's why they didn't make the final cut . Most of the scenes featured were from the introduction , with a totally different conversation piece at the Serendipity cafe . You must watch them to know what was originally intended .
A Nutshell Review : Fashion	The glamorous world of fashion gets put under the spotlight with Madhur Bhandarakar's Fashion , a story which tells of the rise and fall of a fictional Indian supermodel Meghna Mathur , played by ex Miss World Priyanka Chopra , who holds court with her performance as the phoenix finding her own standing in an industry known for ruthlessness and fickleness that comes with changing its representative face with the seasons . As Meghna , Chopra brings to life the wide-eyed small town girl who dreams of making it big on the catwalks of Mumbai , and thereafter the world , and we journey with her through this long and arduous road to modelling . Given that a typical Bollywood movie comes in two parts after an intermission , each part serves its intent well , acting as a separation of attitudes adopted , of the transformation of Meghna from aspiring model , to one at her peak , bad attitude notwithstanding . You'd come to expect a story that's almost mirroring that of The Devil Wears Prada , where good natured girl gets caught up with all the bright lights and glamour , that she loses her humanity quite consciously , looking at herself change from angel to demon , yet powerless in the grip of fame and money to find the moral courage to do anything about it . It tells of pitfalls , not only in this particular industry , but in general the kind of negative person we are susceptible to turn into , should we lose touch with reality , and let success get into our heads . Priyanka Chopra is quite perfect in the role and believable both as the girl next door , and a supermodel as well , given her beautiful looks and height to carry the role of a clothes horse . She brings to the screen some steely resolve in that it's not enough to be just a part of the industry , but to be # 1 through any methods and means . During production of course there was talk about her going on a crash diet for her role , and I guess such rumours get spun because the industry favours pencil thin ( read : unhealthy looking ) models who grace the catwalks . However , Chopra brings about a healthy glow to her role as Meghna , though I thought toward the end she looked a little more svelte in her figure than to begin with . It's good to see that at least she's not quite obsessed into being yet another waif looking character , as there might be some pressure given the production did feature real models , some even from Elite , gracing the screen as background eye candy . And this film was really quite encompassing with its portrayal of the industry , what with all the power players from agents to agencies , from designers ( including fashion labels like Jimmy Choo ) to magazines ( Vogue India ) , from genuine friends to those looking to feel up skirts . I particularly liked how the film introduced us to all the key players and characters in one fell swoop , and what more through a fashion show , listening in to who's who and rivalries that exist , before observing just how hypocritical everyone can be toward one another . Granted there were some lapses into character stereotypes like the gay designer and the married modelling agency boss ( played by Arbaaz Khan ) who has no qualms about sleeping with his top model , and with some moments in the plot being quite predictable , especially with relationships both personal and professional , Fashion still comes through unscathed as it's delivered in a slick package , sashaying to the cool seductive moves of catwalk modelling , of showing off its best side to the audience . Since this is a film from Bollywood , you can expect many sleazy bits to be toned down and self-censored , with one scene involving a wardrobe malfunction actually being mosaic-ed off . And besides Priyanka Chopra , Mugdha Godse also held her own as Meghna's best friend Janet , who shows her the ropes and also bearing witness to her meteoric rise and fall . But I thought Kangna Ranaut's show-stopper role as top supermodel Shonali was something to sit up and take notice , with her pitch-perfect arrogance on the catwalk being quite a sight to behold , and her character being a parallel to that of Meghna , as a pre-cursor and warning of what one's life would be if you'd throw it to the wind , given her indulgence in drugs , drink , smoke and a choice of the wrong partner . I haven't seen a lot of movies about the fashion industry , but I suppose this one form India serves as a catalyst to begin , even if it's a work of fiction . Eye candy galore and a simple storyline to follow , it's houte couture on display , everything good and nasty about it . As close to front row seats to a fashion show I can get .
A Nutshell Review : Crank	Just so you know , I'm a fan of Jason Statham , but before you jump to conclusions that I'm gonna give a positive spin on Crank because I'm a fan boy , do note that if you cannot stand mindless action movies , if you're not a Statham fan , flowery vulgarities are not your cup of tea , and MTV styled quick cuts give you headaches , then forget it , Crank is not for you . Otherwise , you're in for an adrenaline pumping ride . And what a ride it is . While Statham has been in a variety of movies , sometimes in bit roles ( Collateral ) , or sharing the limelight ( The Italian Job remake ) , or playing villainous characters ( like Cellular ) , he does prove at times that he could carry off his own vehicle ( pardon the pun ) in films like the Transporter series . You may quibble about his acting , or the movies he starred in don't allow any range to be seen , but hey , this dude's got presence . And in action movies , that's what matters . Can he be to this decade what Stallone-Van Damme-Schwarzeneggar have been to theirs ? Statham stars as Chev Chelios , an unsavoury character , a professional hit-man finding himself in deep , deep trouble . As always , the bad guys like monologues , and slow deaths , hence right at the start he's injected with a synthetic drug known as the Beijing Cocktail . To survive , he must keep his adrenaline flowing and heart rate high . Relaxing and taking five , will be lethal . So begins a riotous run around town , staying alive with every conceivable adrenaline pumping ideas based on sex , drugs and even rock and roll , in his desperate quest to fish out his perpetrators and exact his brand of violent justice . It's extremely non politically correct , and the dialogue , well , you'll either love it , or loathe it . And directors Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor really loaded this movie with plenty of smart alecky effects and quirky edits , you'll need some time to adjust to the style imposed . Don't go looking for a very smart storyline with award winning acting , because you won't find any , given the very blatant loopholes in certain scenes , plunging plausibility right down the drain . But who cares , so long as the action's great and the pace just never letting up . Best part is that given the local rating , nothing's being censored , so you can see every gory scene ( some reminiscent of Hostel , Saw , and the likes ) , witness sexploitative characters , and hear every swear word in its full glory . And another plus points for the male audience , Amy Smart stars in a decorative role as Eve , Chev's main squeeze , who doesn't show up until close to the hour's mark in a less than 90 minute movie . The character's here plainly to serve up and fulfill deep dark sexual desires . Heck , I'd bet most in the audience were crossing their fingers for some major wardrobe malfunction ! Strictly for the fans , and hell yeah , it's one heck of a ride ! And stay tuned until the end of the credits too ! Can't wait for his new movie Rogue where he goes up against Jet Li !
A Nutshell Review : Sky High	Since this is a Disney movie , I guess you'll know what to expect : humour , safe action , some camp , lotsa colour , and a feel good factor . Sky High is all these and , surprisingly , a whole lotta fun too ! Sometimes music makes the movie for me , and when I heard " Everybody Wants To Rule The World " , I knew the filmmakers had this done right , for a superhero movie that doesn't take itself too seriously . Sky High refers to a special school hovering up in the sky , where the children of super-beings go to , for an education to learn how to harness their powers . Interestingly , they do not learn whether to use it for good or evil , it's entire up to them ( i . e . no moral or social studies here ) . Will Stronghold had it tough from the start - being the only child of 2 Superhero parents ( most have only 1 parent as a super being ) , he had to uphold both his parents and the general population's expectation of his perceived abilities , which he knows is , none . What's more , his parents are the most powerful of them all , and everyone in school naturally gives respect to his family name . Alas , here's where the fun starts . There are plenty of one-dimensional characters , like the school pranksters , the loner with an attitude , the most popular girl in school , the cheerleader , the coward , the Haves and the Have-nots . Rather , make that the Heroes and the Losers / Sidekicks . Like local schools , Sky High segregates lessons between those with heroic-like powers ( super strength , speed , ability to fly , etc ) and those with more benign and less powerful abilities . However , my favourite scenes are those lessons with the Hero-Support group ( a more politically correct term for Sidekicks ) , taught by a teacher , whom I suspect is a jab at a grown-up Burt Ward Robin . While this is mainly a kid's show , there are more adult themes thrown in . Though adults would probably get tired with the Loser to Hero storyline , they'll probably get more of the inside jokes and references thrown in abundance in this movie . Hamming it up as the adult characters in the movie are Kurt Russell as The Commander , and Kelly Preston as Jetstream - Earth's mightiest couples , and TV's Wonder Woman Lynda Cater appears as Sky High's principal - do listen for a classic line ! Bruce Campbell contributes to the humour as the typical Coach Boomer ( sonic boom abilities ) , but my favourite ought to be Ron Wilson - Bus Driver ! So while the storyline's nothing to wow about , the delivery is still top notch , and it's pretty enjoyable watching a typical US high school drama with super powers added to spice things up . The special effects are well done too , though cheesy at some points , again , just to jab Adam West's Batman ( the pole , the bat-computer like computer ) . If you're a fan of cartoons and comics , you'll definitely not want to miss this - you'll be in awe at how many familiar references you can catch in this movie ! P . S . I swear there's a scene in the trailer that did not make it the final cut - and that is the one where Russell and Preston were chained up and held above ground . If I'm wrong , let me know .
A Nutshell Review : Transamerica	Felicity Huffman is up and running for the Best Actress Oscar this year , and there's no profound reason to understand why . It's a challenging role , one in which she plays a transsexual . No , not a woman who wants to become a man , but the reverse . Meaning she has to have that constant subtle nuance that she's physically evolving into a woman through the assistance of drugs , while groping with the fact that others know she's a little queer . It's surprisingly an enjoyable movie , one which meshes great music and visuals together to create a story focused on one man / woman's journey into fulfilling his / her desires . Bree Osbourne ( Huffman ) is at her final stages of transformation , having scheduled a final operation to remove her male organ . However , she received a call one day and realized that when she was still a he , he had unwittingly fathered a son , Toby ( Kevin Zegers ) and now that son is locked up in a New York jail house pending bail . Posing as a church volunteer , Bree bails Toby out , but keeps the true nature of their relationship a secret . And since both of them need to reach Los Angeles , they embark on a reluctant road trip together . Yes , it's one of those road trip movies too , with its fair share of witty dialogue and comedic situations . However , this one had a little more heart involved , given the brilliant chemistry between father / mother and son . It becomes a journey of self discovery and self worth for the both of them , and at the same time , we look at the attitudes of general folks towards transsexuals and the prejudices they face . In the film , it might be mentioned that it's a psychological disorder , but what you'd gather , if anything , is that they're human too , with similar hopes and aspirations , wanting to live their lives they want to , some having confidence , or the lack thereof therefore needing a physical change to be complete . And while this movie doesn't attempt to preach , it does make a point or two from its dialogue if you attempt to go at it from the angle of religion . In a scene with friends of the same nature , it was quite hard for Bree as you see her struggle to put down her friends in front of her son , as if to disapprove of their behaviour and what has become of them . It was as if she had put a mirror in front of herself and criticized oneself based on societal norms , in contrast to what we see each there where she psyches and assures herself each day in front of that same mirror . Besides Bree , the other major character will be that of Toby , a teenage male streetwalker . Like Mysterious Skin , there's some exploration into gay and teen sex , as he sells his body to help get Bree and himself out of a fix . It might not settle well , but it's all there . I'm quite surprised to see Graham Greene in this movie too , though his role is quite minor , to show that transsexuals do have emotions and love too , and shouldn't be ostracized . Perhaps the part where the plot really propelled forward was when the Bree and Toby meet up with the Osbournes . Part comedy , part serious , the family ties between the characters really took a life on its own , about how one's decision to change oneself will have an impact on parents , whether you'd like it or not . But it is precisely these issues that you'd think might crop up , actually do , and get addressed . Its introduction to the premise might be a little Broken Flowers , and some aspects of it might have taken a leaf from Mysterious Skin , but Transamerica aptly surpasses those two in grappling with its mature themes . Recommended stuff .
A Nutshell Review : To Make A Film is to Be Alive	I was actually looking forward to the documentaries this week to shed some insight into the man whose films are showcased in the Retrospective , but after today's session , I'm inclined to believe I've to wait until the last week's set of documentaries to savour what I had expected . One wonders about the significance of the title , and as explained by Lorenzo Cordelli , Enrica actually had gotten some flak for getting Michelangelo Antonioni out to do film work , despite his partial paralysis from a stroke . But as the title suggests , because of high medical expenses and funds running low , he has to , unfortunately , pay the bills too , and hence his involvement in the movie Beyond the Clouds . Co-directed by Wim Wenders , we see glimpses of how Antonioni got to direct with limited mobility , though much of it had Wim Wenders in the central role of explaining Antonioni's vision and direction to cast and crew alike . From interview pieces with Wenders , we get to understand a little bit more on this collaboration process , and it explains quite clearly the dynamics between the two filmmakers on the set . What was sorely missed however , was more of Antonioni , as there wasn't any time set aside to hear what he has to share , and we can only try to understand from the little bits and pieces from his limited screen time . It's very Beyond the Clouds specific , so much so that it could be deemed as a making-of documentary of the movie , rather than a general one on Antonioni . With cast interviews from Jean Reno to Sophie Marceau , given the large number of actors and actresses featured in what essentially is a collection of short films , we get to learn more about the cast's thoughts and feeling towards Antonioni's style and direction , and to hear about their thrill of being casted in an Antonioni movie . We get to experience certain events on set , but that's about it . At most it whet my appetite for the movie , as it'll be screened only week after in this Retrospect , and to hang in there for more documentaries that will hopefully shed additional light on the big man himself .
A Nutshell Review : Oliver Twist	" Please sir , may I have some more ? " Ah , the immortal line from Charles Dickens ' classic , from the book Oliver Twist , telling the story of an orphaned boy , with sheer incredible luck and a melancholic , likable face . The book has been remade into movies countless of times , and this one is Roman Polanski's take . I haven't read the novel ( yes , I heard gasps of horror ) so I can't offer a scene for scene comparison . So perhaps you could shed some light on the short summary I'm about to give . The first 10 minutes will highlight the immortal line where Oliver is sent to a factory made up of orphaned boys . There , he gets sold to a coffin maker , where he makes his escape . Throughout his journeys , he meets up with many benefactors who assist him in one way or another . Some good , like Mr Brownlow , and some bad , like Fagin , who's the caretaker of a group of child pickpockets . And it is in London where Oliver was picked up by the Artful Dodger , and introduced to the rest of the crew led by Fagin . He learns the trade , but in a botched first attempt , gets sort of rescued by Mr Brownlow , and has his first taste of a decent life . However , the lowlifes are afraid of him squealing their whereabouts to the police , and hence , recapture Oliver and uses him to steal from Mr Brownlow . And of course I won't bore you with the details but suffice to say that the main villain of the show , Bill Sykes , an associate of Fagin , gets more screen time than Oliver himself towards the end . It's a lavish production , with big sets . The streets of Old London were beautifully created , and so was the soundtrack chugging so indiscreetly in the background . Ben Kingsley , as Fagin , disappears into his role behind the makeup - you'll hardly recognize him , and Barney Clark as Oliver seemed likable enough too , and provided enough emotions to punctuate the final scene . So for those , like me , who have not read the book , this should prove to be an invaluable 130 minute introduction to the real thing . Sure you can have more , by picking up the book .
A Nutshell Review : Sympathy for Lady Vengeance	I won't be surprised to see hordes of housewives watching Sympathy for Lady Vengeance , given the Korean drama penetration into Asian households , especially the wildly popular Jewel In The Palace starring the same lead actress Lee Youngae . Then again , given the theme on revenge , filled with its fair share of blood and gore , this new movie by Park Chanwook might appeal to just a select few . It's easy to draw comparisons with Hollywood's recent revenge movie , Quetin Tarantino's Kill Bill . Both stars hot actresses , both movies focus on the same theme , both have children playing an integral part of the protagonist's motivation , and both were essentially screwed by a male baddie . However , Sympathy plays up the stylistic factor , as well as little art-house nuances in delivering sweet revenge . Lee Youngae plays Lee Geumja , whom we see leaving prison after serving a sentence of 13 years for kidnap and murder . Or is it ? Framed and blackmailed by her collaborators , she bears the brunt of the responsibility and blame , which sent her packing to jail . Naturally she swears vengeance upon the mastermind of the dastardly deeds , as hell as knoweth no fury like a woman who's really angry . Playing up biblical moments in the movie by symbolizing Geumja as a devil in angel's clothing ( or vice versa , depending on how you want to look at it ) , the movie intersperses narrative moments with essential flashbacks to her life in prison . On one hand , she's the angel to newcomers who protects them from the bad prison cell mama-san , while on the other , she's the devil who's plotting murder on the sly . She gains respect from these inmates , who play important roles when Geum-ja is released , to exact her 13 year revenge plan . One of the best scenes in demonstrating this was the making of her twin-trigger handgun , translating poetic justice straight from the pages of a suture . The final showdown is different from Kill Bill's , without the monotonous monologue , and the imaginary Five Point Exploding Heart Palm technique . Here , it's brutal , it's violent , and somehow , satisfactory . Revenge is a dish best served cold , but only enjoyable when share with a group of like-minded diners , to classical Vivaldi music . The final 20 minutes of the show makes an interesting conversation and analytical piece , so I would not spoil anything here . While at times the movie does plod along , it depended heavily on Youngae to shoulder this film through its slower moments . I'm not sure why , but somehow through the many close-ups , I find she has aged quite a lot from her JSA days . Make no mistake , this film might not be for all to bear . Those who are expecting numerous gunfights and explosions will be disappointed , as Geumja does not roar and rampage like what Beatrix did . But when she finally does , in artistic style , all can be forgiven .
A Nutshell Review : Sketches of Frank Gehry	Frank Gehry is the world renowned architect who designed the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao , Spain . This documentary , directed by his friend Sydney Pollack , takes a quick look into the man himself , as well as to showcase some of the designs of the past 20 years or so , including the Guggenheim , which is given plenty of airtime . Nearer to home , the Kerzner-CapitaLand's Sentosa Integrated Resort bid boasts of having its architecture designed by Gehry . Response has been mixed that it resembles one of his earlier pieces , but hey , it's Frank Gehry , and having one of his designs here , if it gets awarded , will be one heck of an attraction in itself . Gehry mentioned during the interview that Pollack was given the nod to do the documentary was because of his lack of knowledge in the field . Perhaps it's because coming from the outside , he would be able to provide a fresh perspective into how architecture is viewed , from a layman . There's nothing much to shout about in this film , except to drool at the various eclectic designs and buildings Gehry built , and to go behind the scenes to try and pick his brain about the processes and idiosyncrasies he lives by . And watching the master at work is amazing . From his squiggly sketches , they evolve into grand monuments , often undergoing countless of changes on the fly . There are plenty of hacks on models , and the amount of material spent making these models is simply staggering . It's no wonder he has a dedicated team of professionals working under him , and together they create art . I'm also impressed by Gehry's vast knowledge on materials , as they are equally important in bringing to life the designs from paper to the actual building . Watch this documentary if you want to have a glimpse of how Frank Gehry goes about his work combining art with architectural design , and of the little nuggets of information he shares about his work and design philosophy , as well as a rare glimpse into this life from interviews and dialogues with colleagues and friends . Now I'm rooting for the Kerzner-CapitaLand bid , just to have a Gehry designed building on our shores : - )
A Nutshell Review : Russian Dolls	Russian Dolls are those wooden toy dolls , which can be opened to reveal another doll , and opened again to reveal another , until you reach the final , tiny one . That in essence , is the movie's message on love and relationships . How do you know that the person you're with , is that final soulmate , the final tiny Russian doll at the end of the chain ? Or are you still stuck in the process of searching , and breaking up , and perpetually wondering and keeping a lookout for that someone else perceivably better ? A sequel to The Spanish Apartment , you don't really have to watch that in order to enjoy Russian Dolls , even though most of the characters come back in this one . The protagonist is Xavier ( Romain Duris ) , a down-and-out writer who's looking for his next big break , no matter if it's a cheesy love story that he's tasked to work with , or ghostwriting memoirs of celebrities . We follow his journey as he seeks his dolls , most of whom were encounters in the Spanish Apartment . First we have Martine ( the lovely Audrey Tautou ) , his ex-girlfriend who's now a single parent , and who still holds a candle for him , but only when she's feeling lonely and needy . Don't you just feel that sometimes you're being made use of , but you're a nice guy and is accommodating to that ex ? But no worries , there's always that buddy to rely on , and Xavier's buddy happens to be a lesbian Isabelle ( Cecile De France , that tough as nails cookie in High Tension ) , a smart financial analyst . Friends like these must have OK ? They'll even go all out to be out of character just to assist you in situations , providing you with accommodation , and dressing up so femininely ( she's a butch by the way ) to be your pretend-girlfriend . In between , Xavier tries to get back to the dating game by hooking up with store assistant Kassia ( Aissa Maiga ) , but as you know , the ex always gets in the way , somehow . So another potential relationship , ended up broken before it even had a chance to get started . But the final two proved to be most challenging of the lot . Business brings Xavier and Wendy together ( Kelly Reilly , in a lot of movies lately , like Mrs Henderson Presents , Pride and Prejudice ) , and love blossoms between the two , despite initially starting off as platonic , and Wendy still being stuck in a relationship that she doesn't have the strength to walk away from . But their relationship is put to the test when Xavier , through business , also gets the opportunity to hook up with up-and-coming model Celia ( Lucy Gordon ) . Ah , a beautiful celebrity , that unattainable perfect being , the object of everyman's desire and lust , now within reach . Which would he choose ? Which would you choose ? The down to earth person , or the party girl surviving in that barbie world that last only as long as their looks do ? The movie suggests many known thoughts and ideas on romance and relationships , such as loving someone meaning loving their flaws , that there's no such thing as the perfect person , just only being able to love someone because their flaws don't drive you up the wall . And the eternal question of when will you stop looking ? Temptations abound , but at the end of the day , do you cross the line , or who do you return to ? It might seem that the story's the usual of love , finding love , losing it , and all the clichés of a romance flick , but with an added punch . It's also interesting to note the different apartments that Xavier encounters , from his ex's home , to Isabelle's bachelor pad , from an ordinary London home in Wendy's , to the luxurious French suite of Celia's . There're also plenty of country hopping , between England , France and Russia ( Moscow , St Petersburg ) , where their friend in common William is getting married . And yes , Apple laptops sure looks sexy ! Probably I had it easier to identify with this movie , given I'm the targeted age group of those approaching the big-three-oh , wondering about stuff like these occasionally . Peppered with plenty of comedy to keep the going interesting , especially its techniques of juxtaposing reel-reality with reel-fantasy , Russian Dolls is a truly contemporary , chic , and sassy film standing on its soapbox with a mouthpiece touching on modern relationships .
A Nutshell Review : PTU	The reason why I bought this was simple . Since I was on a DVD buying spree , and had picked up Johnnie To's The Mission ( see review here ) , I thought I might as well pick up yet another of his movies which I have not watched , and so PTU presented itself because of the price , and the uber cool slip case cover . PTU , or Police Tactical Unit , is quite unlike To's movies like the Election series , or The Mission . Here , we look at cops . Ordinary cops , who like everyone else , just want to go home safe and sound after their tour of duty . The movie started off with the sounds of the bustling streets of Hong Kong , before we find ourselves inside a police truck , with everyone in sombre mood during their trip to their patrol grounds of Tsim Sha Tsui , and listening quite ominously to an announcement over the radio regarding the death of a cop . And so begins am eventful night , which is the time period where PTU takes place in . We follow quite a number of characters - Lam Suet as Lo from the Anti-Crime Division , whose firearm was lost during a scuffle with thugs , and forms the crux of the story in which the lives of everyone else in the movie revolves around , Maggie Siu as Kat , sergeant of her team of PTU cops , and Simon Yam as Mike , her counterpart leading the other team . It's a great character study piece of the three main characters , initially one who knows he's in lots of trouble for the loss , and desperately trying to recover it , in order to save face , and keep his reputation intact for an upcoming promotion , Kat's sense of doing what's right , following procedure , and Mike , who's willing to risk it all to help another of his own " for kay " ( slang for cop ) . Under To's direction , PTU is a brilliant visual piece . Creative use of light and shadow illuminates PTU , making it a visual spectacle , so much that you'll still enjoy the movie even if you turn off the volume . I particularly enjoyed the rather quiet moments which were plenty throughout the movie , rather than the usual wham-bang kind of action with guns ablazing . In fact , a shot is never even fired , until the end-all finale , combining all the separate threads of the story into one heck of a finale . What could probably raise eyebrows , are the unorthodox methods employed by the upholders of the law . You can't help but ponder over the methods , and how the lieutenants either turn a blind eye to , or are in full agreement with the provocative procedures meted out by their captain . Surely a talking point , if fire should be met with fire when dealing with scum . There are many subtle touches in this compact tale of less than 90 minutes , with the ubiquitous mobile phone being so important as a plot element , and that strong sense of irony in the narrative . And again in To's cops and robbers / triad movies ( though I may be wrong ) , it seemed that the cool soundtrack which is peppered throughout the film , seemed to stem from a single primary theme music , this time with some electric guitar riffs . PTU doesn't get bogged down by wasting time explaining the many whys and how comes , and prefers to zap you right into the moment . It's the sense of contemplative urgency that makes it compelling to watch , and every turn brings something unexpected . The ending is particular interesting too , especially for those who have written statements in uniformed groups - you surely know what they're doing !
A Nutshell Review : Day Watch	We were made to wait for more than 2 years since the debut of Timur Bekmambetov's Night Watch , Russia's groundbreaking science fiction fantasy movie which promised a trilogy with the following two movies , Day Watch and Dusk Watch to follow . The first movie opened to much fanfare here with overnight festivities and a graveyard hour premiere , but reality set in soon after that local audiences perhaps aren't game for something too foreign , despite it that it stuck to the familiar action-effects formula . So Day Watch will soon premiere on the local screens with less of the ra-ra fanfare , and while it helped a bit with its summarized recap of the first movie , my advice would be to ensure that you'd watch Night Watch first so that the characters who appear don't look too odd to you , and it'll be more satisfying come the ending because it makes the two movies just perfect and a wrap up . Which of course brings to question Bekmambetov's original vision of a trilogy , because I certainly can't see how it can happen now without throwing a spanner into the works . The movie continues from where it left off the first movie , fast forwarded 12 years , where Anton ( Konstantin Khabensky ) is still taking on the Master role in tutoring his new padawan Svetlana ( Mariya Poroshina ) , who is touted as possibly the next Great One who had joined their side . Those of us in the know will already be in the loop what happened to the first Great One , and because movie prophecies are always self fulfilling , we get a hint of what's to come for the finale . The movie still focuses on Anton , and he makes an interesting central character because he is just about as flawed as can be , and not the all powerful character given there are many others in the movie absolutely more capable and powerful than he is . There's no boy scout in his character to bore you , and he constantly does things according to his fancy , which almost always gets him into trouble , with his continued pining for his son . And it is this less than heroic characteristic , that somewhat endears us to his internal struggles . The father-son theme also takes on another dimension with Kostya ( Aleksei Chadov ) and his butcher father ( Valeri Zolotukhin ) , but while it had a number of minor sub plots strung together , they rarely strike that emotional chord in you , as thee stories are conveniently serving as leads to the next big special effects scene . Some of these scenes you can tell were added to show off the effects capability - they look beautiful , but don't further the plot much . Think of it as nice decorative flower vases , and worse , contribute to certain plot loopholes and implausibilities as well . But wait , we're talking about a fantasy movie here , so it could be forgiven . A gripe that I had was how wimpy the characters in the movie had become . Gone are the glorious battles from the first movie , where the rooftop mêlée was one of my favourites . What we have in Day Watch are plenty of scheming and plotting , and less of the fisticuffs . Even when it came to slugging it out , they were less than menacing and quite ordinary compared to its grittier , and darker predecessor . What made me chuckle a bit was the ditching of sensibilities and a tit-for-tat nod to Hollywood with its big bang disaster styled development , which certainly was uncalled for , but no doubt a you-can-do-we-can-do-too response . And some might be irked by the cop out ending , that it's much ado about nothing after all given the brou-ha-ha about the all powerful Chalk of Fate , but it's an ending which is perfect when you put Night Watch and Day Watch together . One thing's enjoyable for sure , is the return of the funky subtitles . Since the movie is in Russian save the English language monologue recap , and for non-Russian speakers like yourself , sometimes reading subtitles might be a bit of a bore . But kudos here , like its predecessor , for intricately crafting nice looking , effects filled subtitles to enhance our reading pleasure . For non-fans of the first movie , you'll probably give this one a miss , or for those who have not watched Night Watch , then you might walk out halfway given that it's relatively difficult to follow ( there were walk outs in the screening I attended ) . But for the fans , then this movie is a reason to celebrate closure . Definitely an acquired taste !
A Nutshell Review : The Band's Visit	The introductory inter-titles alluded this story as if it was a true , and that not many would remember it because it wasn't that important . I'd like to consider that The Band's Visit is however important to highlight and remind ourselves of simple human decency to help a fellow man in need . With little money , no understanding of the local language , and absolutely clueless as to the current location , I think not everyone can turn a blind eye , and not offer any assistance at all . In The Band's Visit , the 8-member team from Egypt's Alexandria Police Ceremonial Band arrive in Israel to perform at the opening ceremony of a new Arab Cultural Center , only to find themselves stranded at the wrong town , a quiet one in fact , without support from the organizers or the embassy to get them back on track . " Gneral " Taqfiq ( Sasson Gabai ) and his men however get unexpected support from restaurant owner Dina ( Ronit Elkabetz ) , an attractive middle aged lady who extends her hospitality to include an overnight stay at her restaurant , her home and her friends ' homes , and a warm meal to boot . So begins an uneasy alliance forged between the two cultures , one resigned to the fact that absolutely nothing happens in their town where this anomaly of an opportunity to become a Good Samaritan seemed bemusing , and somewhat an emotional / relationship wreck herself , sees a chance of a faintly probably getting together with a uniformed man . The other whose life is led by strict rules and regulation , responsible for the conduct of his men , reminding them to be ambassadors of their country , but as the story goes by , we see the man behind the uniform get revealed . Don't expect big moments or slapstick comedy though , as this film is not . Most of the events that were remotely laughable , stemmed from the little episodes of a reaching out between humans , sans rivalry , loyalty and culture . While the movie doesn't showcase every individual in the 8 member team , significant time got devoted to Haled ( Saleh Bakri ) , the default renegade character every group has , in his assistance to his host's plight of not being able to communicate with the girl that the latter likes , and Simon ( Khalifa Natour ) , the second-in - command who is more of a conformer , being left questioned on his incomplete overture , whether he has the courage to pursue his dreams . Writer-director Eran Kolirin's story takes place in a succinct 24 hours , split into three story arcs of first - Dina and Tawfiq in the revelation of each other's past while maintaining a hint of possible romance in the air , of second chances , second - Haled and his exploration of the town , with the unforgettable roller skate disco scene , and Simon which epitomizes uneasiness , which I feel most of us could identify with , being in disquieting comfort of a stranger's home , and having to deal with personal questions , not because the hosts were rude , but in attempts to try and break the ice by probing common topics to talk about . Each of these stories had their respective touching moments , brought out vividly by the cast members , over a background soundtrack of excellently chosen tunes , from pop to classical music which we get treated to at the end . While the narrative may have unfolded within the short span of time in an overnight stay , parting was indeed sweet sorrow , and what came through was certainly something more memorable that will dwell with you , on the basic human decency of not judging a book by its cover , and that putting aside all differences and general presumptions , every individual has their own stories to tell , with challenges faced that could be no different from anyone else .
A Nutshell Review : L'Eclisse	Lorenzo Codelli highlighted to us that this was the first time that Michelangelo Antonioni had back to back to back productions , with the famed Trilogy movies released over a span of 3 years . And they cover distinct cities in Italy too , with the poorest parts of Italy in L'Avventura , the industrial capital Milan in La Notte , which had a lot of dialogue , and here , it's set in Rome . Compared to his peer Fellini , Antonioni preferred to shoot using real settings , which gives his films a kind of documentary like feel , versus Fellini's preference for recreating sets indoors . Being the last film that Antonioni shot in black and white , it closes a chapter and with colour in The Red Desert , opens a new one . L'Eclisse opens with a man and woman in total silence in an apartment . The woman behaves in a restless manner , moving from one area to the next , while the man remained seated on an armchair , unmoved . It went on for a few minutes , in utter silence save for the whirring sound of a table fan . But when they start to speak , we realize that Riccardo ( Francisco Rabal ) and Vittoria ( Monica Vitti ) are in the midst of a potential breakup . The reason is not given despite the former's probe , whether there was someone else coming between them . He gets a response he doesn't believe in , but realizes nonetheless that Vittoria has lost all feelings for him , for one reason or another . He sees her home as he always does , and says goodbye for the very last time . For some strange reason , it reminded me painfully of my own experience , so the opening scene served as a clincher right from the start . It's easy to relate to Riccardo because I too found it somewhat incomprehensible , and whatever he tried to do later - seeing her back , trying to call her later and so on , rings a bell that goes far back . But this is not a story about my life , but it's Michelangelo Antonioni's final movie in his loose Alienation trilogy , which I felt was the most accessible of them all , despite its extremely abstract finale consisting of a montage of images , lasting for a few minutes . In essence , I thought L'Eclisse contained what was essentially a very easy-to-follow story , with charismatic leads with whom you're able to hook your attention to , and while it continues with its crafting of powerful characters with complicated problems to deal with , it doesn't overwhelm and allows some breathing space to appreciate them a bit more . But I note that my focus had turned away from the " same-old " relationship issues , to the floor of the stock exchange , where Alain Delon's Piero got introduced , and in which the film seemed to spend a lot of time with a showcase of how deals were made through cryptic shouting and hand signals , which still has its usefulness in today's modern context , except for the bit where phone calls were still taken from the booths in harried manner . With Piero as a hot shot stockbroker , it allowed for this indulgence in setting many scenes in and around the stock exchange , where professionals and curious public punters gather to listen in for the best deals , and fervently place their bets . Perhaps one of the key takeaways here is that it served as a cautionary tale of blindly following the masses into stocks and commodities without fully understanding and appreciating the risks involved , with a fear of poverty spearheading a belief that the stockmarket provides an avenue for get rich quick schemes . But back to our lovebirds Piero and Vittora , it's a fairly simple courtship ritual they embark upon , with Piero being persistent in his chase , and Vittora being afraid to commit , especially since she's just coming out of a relationship where her feelings for her ex-lover inexplicably died off . There were some unintentionally comic moments in this chase that provided again a brief reprieve from the heaviness in its theme , and I can never get that very loud and rude " PRONTO ! ! " answer to a phone call out of my mind , where a hesitant cold call by Vittora to Piero caught him unexpectedly in a wrong mood . However , amongst the Trilogy , I felt this one had one of the more positive endings compared to the rest , with unflinching hope settled upon quite clearly , sans the last few minutes . As mentioned earlier , L'Eclisse has this end montage sequence that included revisits of the venues that the lovebirds had been to during the course of the story , and others . To me they seem quite jarring and I never fully understood their inclusion to round up the movie . But one thing I'm sure of , is that in Piero's mesmerizing mansion , his study had one of those pens which I'll be on the lookout for , and most definitely will get one for my personal use !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Conspiracy ( 2001 )	It was just as Hitler tasted defeat at the Russian front , that a little known meeting was arranged to mark one of the worst events in humankind . That meeting , known as the Wannsee Conference , was to put into motion the evacuation of the Jews from Germany , then the rest of their controlled territories . 15 officials from various departments were in attendance , chaired by SS Chief of Security Reinhard Heydrich ( Kenneth Branagh ) and SS Major Adolf Eichmann ( Stanley Tucci ) , and has in its members several lawmakers and doctors . They sit and debate ( well , not much of a debate actually ) the notion of evacuating ( read : Eliminate ) the Jews , and you'll probably witness how casual it all sounded to some of the members . It was interesting to see how Heydrich cajoled everyone into agreeing to his plans , by hook or by crook . And it's very chilling to see how semantics were danced about , and how methods were discussed as if it was a process so trivial - the building of concentration camps , the techniques of gassing and how to perform it , the statistics of the kill that would have them reach their target numbers intended . Based on a surviving record of that meeting , despite the fact that the minutes are to be read , memorized and destroyed , this HBOfilm is a good watch to peek into the decision making process , into that stain in human history , and the unthinkable evil that humans are capable of . If you're a fan of Downfall , then perhaps this depiction of history will interest you .
A Nutshell Review : Shara	First and foremost , I thought the camera took on a life of its own , and drew a lot of attention to itself . It's free-wheeling , panning , tracking and zooming into noises that call out for notice . In some sense , it took on voyeuristic elements as it seemed we're right there with the characters and witnessing incidents as they unfold in the movie at first person's perspective . Not only that , Kawase has a penchant of incredibly long takes , not slow moving all the time though , but having scenes reveal themselves in one continuous shot . I would've imagined the nightmare during production should someone mess up , and the need to start over . Shots following characters also seem to be favourites , where it felt like we had to perpetually chase after the characters to follow on every plot development . The story's nothing to shout about , as it looks at the lives of a household in Nara , Japan , after a member of the family mysteriously disappears , leaving behind mom Reiko ( Naomi Kawase ) , dad Taku ( Katsuhisa Namase ) and their son Shun ( Kohei Fukungaga ) . The opening shot's quite peculiar as well , as a slow moving camera rotates about in a room , as we hear continuous background chimes from the neighbourhood temple , with the voices of Shun and brother Kei conversing , and finally seeing them through window reflections , before a game of " follow me " turns into mystery , one which never gets resolved conclusively in the movie , unless you deem that the eyes from which we watch the movie , is from the eyes and perspective of Kei's . Kei's disappearance is classic X-Files , just as how Fox Mulder had to deal with Samantha's own , and here we follow the family and how they each dealt with this - as one of the unseen characters puts it - case of " spirited away " . Taku immerses himself in organizing the annual Basara street festival as its chairperson , while mom Reiko cultivates green fingers . Shun , blaming himself for losing sight of his brother , exorcises his demons through painting , and from the care given by girlfriend and neighbour Yu ( Yuka Hyyoudo ) , who turns out to be living with her aunt . Even then , the theme of loss doesn't get forgotten , in another long talkie scene where Yu learns of how she came to live in a foster home under the guardianship of her aunt , in a rather incestuous tale that sounded a wee bit incredible , though surprisingly moving . All's not doom and gloom though in Shara , in case you're wondering if this movie's slow pace would be your cup of tea , or whether you'll feel down after watching a sad movie . The movie ends off with a rather uplifting note of hope , where the anticipated birth of a child with a fine penis ( yes , it was from the movie , OK ? ) lies in stark contrast with the mysterious loss of one in the beginning . In fact , things start to pick up ( in pace even ) after the Basara street festival scene , where before the narrative dealt with the mulling over Kei , and had generous allowance to set up all the principal characters . And what a spectacle the Basara street performance was ! Though it was highly repetitive , you can't deny the exuberant energy that the camera captured from the performers , entertaining all in a mesmerizing dance on the streets , which turned into a wet rain dance sequence under heavy downpour . If any scene would've stuck in your mind after you leave the theatre , this would be it , with a little wry scene where Shun had in his crowd control duties , inadvertently blocked the view of a cute knee-high tall child with his palm . Shara turned out to be surprisingly enjoyable , and I now look forward to the documentary by Tetsuaki Matsue titled Summer Vacation with Naomi Kawase .
A Nutshell Review : Hostage	It's been some time since I last saw a movie with creative opening credits . This one is unique , with comic book like panels and graphics , which looks suspiciously like Sin City , capturing different aspects of first responders in a hostage crisis , before dissolving into real life and putting everything into perspective . And we see Bruce Willis with hair ! Lots of it ! Well , at least for the opening tense and engaging scene . He seems to have monopolized the role of the world weary cop , this time , a renowned hostage crisis negotiator , until the mission goes awry and he literally has blood on his hands . We fast forward to today , and we see the Willis we're all too familiar with - bald , and into a career as a small town police chief . Before you can say " bring on the action ! " , 3 teenage delinquents hold a man and his 2 children hostage in their swanky ultra modern home . To add to the mix , there's something shady going on behind the man held hostage , and given Willis ' reputation as an ex-hotshot negotiator , he's now blackmailed by unidentified masked men holding his own family hostage , who want a DVD from the house with probably important information ( don't ask ) . So Willis has to use his smarts , play both sides , putting his skills into practice and wiggle out of both situations - get the hostages safe , deliver what the masked men wants , and in turn , guarantee safe passage for his own family . Naturally when you play both sides , those on the side of the law always question your motives , as you deviate from the book . What intrigues me is the negotiation process - between Willis and the hostage taking delinquents , and between Willis and the professional masked men - which takes centerstage in any hostage drama . I've been reading up a bit on crisis negotiation , and some aspects of the movie does seem to apply the principles of what I have read , which is cool . It's a thrill from start to end , and this film delivers , with 2 finales tying up the 2 major plots . While at times predictable , the superb delivery by the cast does not bore you , though some might think that having " unidentified " masked men seems a little too convenient , as their motives go unexplained . This is based on a novel , so I might just check out the book . And if Willis ' character is called John McClane , this could well be a worthy addition to the Die Hard franchise .
A Nutshell Review : Akeelah and the Bee	There are many competitive sports movies out there , and most of them run common story lines either being pro-underdogs , or running along racial ( dis ) harmony themes , believing in yourself , mentor-mentee relationships , you get the drift . Akeelah and the Bee is no different , but like all feel good movies , chances are you'll like this one and would be touched by it too , because it leaves you all warm and fuzzy inside , never mind a repeat of the commonly used themes . It's formula , but with its predictability , brings you just the right amount of ra-ra moments where you root for what's right , and depends a lot on the charisma of the leads to take it to the finishing line . The U . S National Spelling Bee competition is a cerebral one . Unless your favourite book is the dictionary and you spew Latin and Greek like a first language , you'll be in awe by the vocabulary that these children have to know , in order to regurgitate the right one in front of a national audience . It's the ultimate English Language challenge , and only the best of the best , through a gruelling selection process , get to make the mark to compete . Akeelah Anderson ( Keke Palmer ) comes from your suburb school , and has a penchant for skipping class , hence her less than fantastic grades . Her gift and talent is what else , spelling , and it's quite typical of the school to want to milk that talent to bring glory to themselves . While initially resisting that thought , it doesn't take too long before Dr Larabee ( Laurence Fishburne ) , himself an ex-competitor in the game , identifies her talent , and takes her under his wing to train her for the Nationals . I kinda smiled that Fishburne fanboy smile - it seems that Fishburne's characters can't seem to get enough of mentoring Andersons : - ) Anyway his Dr Larabee plays off a bit like his Matrix's Morpheus , with that stern exterior , and that soft interior . He plays surrogate father to Akeelah , and through their relationship , help build the girl's confidence through essays written by literary giants . It's great chemistry which starts off in a rather chilly manner , but you'd know before long that these two will break the ice and come up between themselves , special techniques to train , and through that , build communication . The movie does fall into the occasional lapse into stereotypes , like the Asian's uber - competitive streak and that strict father you love to hate , the divide between the haves and the have-nots with the rich white kids , and the black ghetto boys . However , these are glossed over too quickly , as we head onto themes like the galvanizing of a community , and the spirit of competition even though it led to an all too predictable ending . Important reminders like relations between family and friends are stressed , and in a way , it made this first Starbucks Coffee ( yes , that coffee company ) production appeal to a wide spectrum . The message in the movie is clear , and it reminded me of an old soldier who once told our platoon , and I paraphrase , that one should not let others look down upon you , but more importantly , you should not look down on yourself . Clearly , that's the message here . Go the distance without fear .
A Nutshell Review : On The Edge	At first glance , this movie might look like an Infernal Affairs clone , with Nick Cheung declaring he wants to be a " good cop " , and with the element of an undercover cop in the triads . Actually , this could have sort of served as a tangent off IA1 , with keen observations to how undercover cops find it tough to assimilate back to normalcy , as the movie shared , more than 50 % do not make it pass their 3rd year . Nick Cheung plays Harry , an undercover cop who has just busted one of the largest triad bosses - Don Dark ( don't ask , played by the excellent Francis Ng ) , but so what ? One would expect glory , recognition and a fat reward to go along , but surprise , in the real world , things like that go unappreciated more often than not . In most movies , the good guy takes the bad guy down in a blaze of glory , and one would expect the glorious moments to be hailed . Here , it's the exploration of how difficult it is actually to rid yourself of vices that you picked up over the years . Given 8 years spent in the underworld , friendships are forged , and so that sense of brotherhood and loyalty become fiercely strong . And it is indeed this brand of devotion that casts a shadow on Harry , whether he has actually rid himself of underworld links , or somehow turned tails and is acting like a double agent . But you know you're stuck in a rut when both sides decide they couldn't trust you . Assimilating back to society isn't always easy , and not having the support from those that matter to you will always make it all the more challenging . In the 8 years you've been living a lie as a different man , how would you expect others to look at you ? It actually makes you wonder if it is humanly possible at all , to forget some of the best times of your life , and the relationships you hold so dearly to . After all , no man is an island . A major plus point is the stellar supporting heavyweights like Francis Ng and Anthony Wong , though they may seem to have superficially replayed their roles from IA2 , with a bit of mellowing from Ng and an extra sense of edginess from Wong . Rain Lee as Harry's girlfriend looked a bit out of place though , with her cutie pie looks totally in opposites with her tough - nails gangster moll character . There's also a deliberate contrast between the methods of those on different sides of the law , subtly hinting that in the end , it boils down to basic human principles of conduct . To round up , the movie may be treading on a familiar genre . The multiple flashbacks are done very nicely as we see the years that Harry spent in the underworld intertwined and contrasting with the normal life he's trying to lead . I suspect it might not last long in its release here given the barrage of films out starting from next week , so you might want to give this movie a shot .
A Nutshell Review : Fur	" A photograph is a secret about a secret . The more it tells you the less you know " - Diane ArbusNicole Kidman isn't new to taking up roles based on real people , having been casted as Virginia Woolf in The Hours . Here , her role as Diane ( pronounced Dee-ann ) Arbus however , is highly fictionalized , based on the renowned American photographer for her portraits of people on the societal fringes . The keywords here are " highly fictionalized " , and even the introduction bears that stark reminder , less someone actually interprets the events on screen as a biography of sorts . At first glance , the story is an enigma of sorts . Nothing much gets revealed in the trailers , and so this review will not tread anything beyond what can be seen or inferred from those short clips . Basically , it fictionalizes the motivations , and probably inspiration , of Diane Arbus , whose portrait photographs of her subjects are quite different in nature . Working in a partnership with her husband , she's the stylist to his photography , or in local terms , the one who covers the mountains and the seas , in other words , does everything else except taking the picture . It's a modern retelling of a fairy tale whereby disclosing it will spoil the mystery . It's a rather warped love story ( some might even frown at it ) too between Diane and Lionel ( played by Robert Downey Jr ) , and despite the less than stellar reviews of the movie , I thought it was excellently paced to keep you guessing in the beginning until the revelation , and kept you engaged further with more questions , anticipation , and the perennial " will they or won't they " . It reminded me a little of an old Batman story arc ( don't ask why ) called Faces , told over three issues in the Legends of the Dark Knight title ( issues # 27-29 ) , and probably because that particular arc is one of my favourites , that I actually enjoyed the movie . The movie looks at freeing oneself from prim , properness and prejudice . Nicole Kidman and Robert Downey Jr put up good performances as characters shackled to unhappiness because of society's expectations and prejudices , and have that desired sexual tension built between them that actually sizzles without being too explicit about it . In fact , much of the movie hinged on their performance and delivery as the integral characters , despite Downey Jr being hidden from most publicity materials ( for a reason of course ) . Fur might not be everyone's cup of tea with its relatively slowness in revealing itself , but for fans of Nicole Kidman , this would probably be one movie you won't want to miss .
A Nutshell Review : Chicken Little	The little chicken has descended on our cinema screens , having teased us endlessly with its chicken dance to the tune of Dragostea Din Tei ( that numa-ye song ) which preceded most movie screenings , in most theatres , until scratches appeared on that reminder to turn off your mobile phone . Coming from Disney , with its highly featured departure on making 3D animated films with Pixar , I'd consider it quite a good attempt . Watching it in a digital format , the images are clear , sharp , and Chicken Little itself so cuddly , you'd just want to hug it ( the soft toy looks a bit out of shape though ) . Based on the well known children's tale , an acorn fell on the head of a chicken and it thought the sky was falling , thereby activating its friends to run for safe haven , only to have the fox trick them all into becoming its dinner . But this is Disney after all , and gruesome scenes like these are censored and reinvented . Here , the original tale is parodied in the beginning , and the townsfolk reckoned that Chicken Little is a mad little boy , and caused an embarrassment to his single parent Father . Being the outcast of school and society , that didn't stop him from being inventive and creative in life ( excellent fun sequence I must say ) , with loyal pals like Runt the fat pig , Fish out of water , and Abby the Ugly Duckling . Besides these characters , I thought it was a good nod to the original tale by incorporating ( minor ) characters like Turkey Lurkey , Foxy Loxy and Goosey Loosey . Some might not enjoy Chicken Little , given that we're spoilt with more adult oriented fare like Shrek , or Pixar's always excellent efforts , but I felt it was a refreshing change to watch something simpler . Sure the parodies are there - look out for spoofs on King Kong , the various explicit reference to War of the Worlds , and even Star Wars , but eventually these gave way to its focus on a very basic theme . That of a child looking for parental acceptance . Chicken Little tries so hard to make his father proud of him , especially after his " Sky is Falling " debacle , that he thought he almost did after a baseball game , but alas , skeletons in the closet return to haunt him , this time , totally unrelated to the original story with the invasion of space aliens . I thought that sequence totally rocked , and was insane , in a good way . Adam West makes a ( voice ) cameo as Ace , the Hollywood version of Chicken Litte , which I thought was the best spoof of the entire movie ( and brought back memories of his Batman series with his slow , calm voice ) . Patrick Stewart too lends his voice as a teacher , and given that it's a sheep , the classroom lessons become one of the hardest laughing scene in the movie . So if you're up for some light entertainment , make it Chicken Little , and no , he does NOT dance to that song , and neither is it played , again . So I do not know why there's so much hate and negative vibes for this movie . Relax ! It's about a little chicken trying to find recognition in spite of its size . Give it to him , will ya ? What did you say ?
A Nutshell Review : Daredevil	This is the first of a series of Marvel comic heroes coming onto the silver screen this year , before Bryan Singer's X2 and Lee Ang's The Incredible Hulk ( another Jennifer . . . Connelly , . . . . WHOA ! ) To compare it to last year's Spider-man will not be fair , because Daredevil is essentially a dark character , and i'm glad they stuck to it . There are complains that the movie is at times incoherent , but hey , it's based on a comic book ! Sit back , relax and enjoy the show as if it's the first time u picked up a Daredevil comic and enjoying it for what it's worth . Ben Affleck once mentioned that he won't don any tights unless it's a Daredevil movie , and guess what , he's right ! He looks the part as the Man Without Fear , the strong jawline and all , and as blind lawyer Matt Murdock . Guess he made Daredevil his own . Jennifer Gardner's Elektra looks as beautiful as she is lethal , but too bad , we're given little screen time where she is Elektra with her twin Sais . But nonetheless her initial meeting with Matt is really , really cool ! Kingpin , in case you didn't know , is not the white character he is in the comic books , but heck , doesn't bother me a bit . And someone tell Bullseye to stock up on his ammo before he even attempts to take out Daredevil : P All in all , the action is sometimes too fast and dark ( hey , it's a dark movie : P ) , but the SFX for the devil's unique capability is really well done . The introductory background to the Daredevil lore and build up is excellent , though the ending i felt was a little too rushed . Fan boys will lap up all the cameos and name-mentioning of people like Kirby , Quesada , et al . All in all , I suppose Marvel got it right this time with the movies . Awaiting X2 and Incredible Hulk to see if Marvel can do a hattrick with its movies this year . Have Faith .
A Nutshell Review : Moon and Cherry	An erotic literature writing club ? Now that's something new ! The closing film for this year's Japanese Film Festival , given the audience's most positive reaction , I'm quite certain that this edition has closed with literally a big bang . While the premise might be refreshing and sexy , at its core is an unconventional love story between a boy and a girl , in a reversal of roles from the traditional way such characters will turn out to be . The boy , Sakamoto ( Akira Emoto ) is quite soft spoken and indecisive , while the girl , Mayama ( Noriko Eguchi ) is an alpha-female , who knows what she wants , and exactly what she must do to achieve her aims , and that includes sleeping her way for it . Mayama is the writing club's only female writer , and a prolific one too , who writes under a pseudonym , and as fuel for her new novel , she engages the 21 year old virgin to the club , Sakamoto , in a cat and mouse game , using her to help translate emotions onto the written page . So while Sakamoto feels used ( having his cherry popped ) , he can't help but fall in love with Mayama , whose games get bolder and more daring as she seeks to observe how Sakamoto's experience and sexual enlightenment can provide her with a new perspective to her literary works . It's also a look at modern day relationships , and the question , to a guy , perhaps on what kinds of girls would you want to be associated with . On the other end of the spectrum , there's Akane ( Misako Hirata ) , a fellow colleague at the bookstore that Sakamoto works in . She looks better , panders to Sakamoto's wishes , basically one of the modern day cutie pies with sugar so sweet it can give you diabetes just by hanging out with her . And I thought what it was quite spot on in its offering and comparisons of the two ladies , in whether you would prefer to love and continue your pursuit for that unattainable someone , or be satisfied with and loving in return , someone who loves you a lot more ( note that I use the L-word here quite loosely ) . Moon and Cherry is a comedy of epic sexual proportions , and its digibeta format and raw look and feel does bring back certain memories of the first American Pie . However , the only drawback here is that the lighting throughout the film looked somewhat dim , but don't let that be an obstacle to enjoying a sassy , fun movie . Don't expect many laugh-out-loud moments , though Moon and Cherry certainly has its charm in punctuating portions of the narrative with very placed humour that hits you when you least expect it to .
A Nutshell Review : Seven Pounds	Two years ago , director Gabriele Muccino collaborated with Will Smith successfully in their year end offering of The Pursuit of Happiness , which while based on the struggles of real life struggler made good Chris Gardner , had a saccharine sweet and triumphant ending befitting of the end of year mood of putting the last year behind you , and looking forward to a better tomorrow . This time round however , the Muccino-Smith partnership has brought about a sustained doom , gloom and heaviness throughout the film that perhaps accurately mirrors current sentiments of the downturn that doesn't look to go anywhere upwards next year as well . There's nary a light-hearted moment in the film , and it begins in what would be uncharacteristic of Smith to be barraging down on a visually handicapped person ( Woody Harrelson in a very subdued , supporting role ) , insulting him and calling him names . In fact , you're more than likely to feel kind of angry with Smith's Ben Thomas , an IRS tax man who continues his verbal assault over the telephone on a stranger whom he doesn't know , yet . You see , it's all a test of character . Ben Thomas is a man on a mission , and while the filmmakers would like you to think that his ultimate aim was something still kept under wraps , it doesn't take long before you decipher just what he's up to , given a clue right from the start of the film that he intends to take his own life , and little hints dropped every now and then . Ben wants to help seven people before his demise , and just how he's going about doing so , is the subject of almost two hours in the film . The plot brews rather slowly , and curiously , doesn't bore even as it doesn't keep you guessing for long . It holds out the real reason and verbatim rationale why he's doing what he's doing , though cynics in us might deem it as an extreme case of seeking redemption . But thankfully , we got Will Smith's acting ability to keep our attention arrested , because he has shown that he's as adept to big budgeted action blockbusters , as he is with strong drama dealing with human emotions . While you may question Ben's technique , you cannot deny that here's a man that's set in his ways that even best friend Dan ( Barry Pepper ) could do nothing to change his course , and only to respect his wishes to carry everything through when the time calls for it . And central to this story , is the relationship between Ben and Emily Posa ( Rosario Dawson ) , a woman who's dished out a death sentence that could happen at any time because of an impending heart failure . It is this story-arc that takes up the bulk of the screen time , and the other benefactors from Ben's magnanimous benevolence only became side shows , with 2 of them just lip service , which was a disappointment because they were relegated to copping out ( or the lack of screen opportunities ) . But it is this love story that could and yet couldn't be , that was achingly heart-wrenching to watch . At first I had dismissed this as yet another star-crossed lovers type of story that Fate had a hand in , but this relationship grows on you , and while it looked like an eventual 21 Grams , the chemistry between Dawson and Smith brought out the best in what could have become some really bad melodrama . I guess I always enjoy stories about sacrifices , and what more about the sacrifice that has to happen , as portrayed in the story , that makes it heartbreaking to bear witness to . Seven Pounds might turn away those looking for some fantastical , escapist storyline to take their minds off temporarily from current troubles , but for Will Smith fans , and those looking for something that doesn't choose to wince away from what it had set out to do , then this might be the film for you this New Year period . It might not have plenty to offer , but for powerful performances , then look no further than this piece .
A Nutshell Review : The Hills Have Eyes	Hot on the heels of slasher flicks like Wolf Creek and Cry _ Wolf ( so many wolves ? ) this year is The Hills Have Eyes , a remake of Wes Craven's 1977 movie of the same title . Directed by Alexandre Aja , who brought us High Tension ( shown here uncut late last year ) , this remake is surprisingly quite good and bloody entertaining , and that's despite being behind the other releases as mentioned over the past 2 weeks . If you're already jaded by the wolves , grit your teeth and go for this one . Bloody satisfaction guaranteed . A word of caution , this movie isn't just plainly blood and gore . There are bits that were chopped off ( pardon the pun ) , either by the filmmakers to secure an R rating in the US , or done so by local censors . What works , is that somehow you actually give a damn for the characters / victims . Why ? Because they're family . And it could be yours . Unlike the teenage swingers in Creek , or rich frat kids in Cry _ Wolf , The Hills Have Eyes sets focus on a typical family - mom , dad , 3 kids , one of whom is already married to a telco salesman , and have a newborn baby . They're on a road trip ( very popular movie element hor ? ) and made a pit stop at a dinghy petrol kiosk ( doesn't it always ? ) , with a sly and suspicious looking pump attendant ( stereotypical , I know ) . They're directed to a short cut ( uh-oh , bad ) in the middle of the New Mexico desert on the way to California , and naturally , their vehicle encounters an accident - yes , in the middle of nowhere , to set the scene . So while the family bickers and decides upon their action plan , little do they know that the hills have eyes . They are being watched , and you're gleefully awaiting some action to happen . The prologue and opening credits will have prepared you for what's to come - grotesque humanoid creatures who are mutated by nuclear energy , with a thirst for violence and hunger to kill . However , don't ask too many whys or hows , just accept the fact that it is so . Without spoiling much , it's wicked . While on one hand , you're anticipating something to happen , by the time it does and the movie progresses , you'll be sucked into actually wanting the worse possible to happen , as a means of eye-for-an-eye , tooth-for-a-tooth , broken skulls and bullet wounds , the works . While the film might want to suggest something about the negativity of nuclear testing , it doesn't get bogged down by the suggestion and before you realize , it gets tossed out of the window in exchange for action . The cast , while some having more screen time than others ( you need the fodders to have the movie belong to the slasher genre ) , did a rather commendable job , despite the genre . You see genuine fear in their eyes , and the tone of their voice - they're really afraid . And you witness their progression from fear to the downright need for primal survival of the fittest . It's pretty neat to see the all too familiar setting up , the initial incident striking fear and confusion into their hearts , and the resolution to the final act , which is split into two different narratives . Somehow the strength is in how the situation develops , although it did get a little while to get there . Despite the cuts and having other lesser slasher flicks shoved down our throats the past weeks , if you have to watch something bloody good , The Hills Have Eyes will be my recommendation .
A Nutshell Review : Inside Man	How do you plan and execute the perfect robbery ? Is there even such a thing as perfection in a heist ? There are many unknowns , and with hostages , you never know what kind of complications they'll give you . And what more , when the police are all over you in a matter of minutes ? Clive Owen plays Dalton Russell , who tells the audience right in the beginning of the usual questions of the whos and the hows . You know , that bit in the trailer where he almost brags about being able to perform the perfect robbery . He and his band of merry men , dressed as painters , storm into a Manhattan bank one day in broad daylight , to rob it . EXcept that this isn't no plain old by-the-book robbery . The methods used are pretty innovative , and we are left to question the motives of what they are doing . Denzel Washington plays hostage negotiator Detective Keith Frazier , brining him back to a good cop role after his award winning stint in Training Day . He's been on the side of hostage taker once in JOhnny Q , and here , he plays a good cop with an edgy suspect past , which despite his plea of innocence , still continues to haunt him . Despite putting on a paunch and looking almost unrecognizable here ( is it in to be fat for a role ? ) , Washington too provides a charismatic presence in great counterbalance to Owen's enigmatic screen presence , even though he had to do an almost Hugo-Weaving tribute by acting behind a mask . Completing the heavyweights of casting , is Jodie Foster , Christopher Plummer and Willem Dafoe . Plummer plays Arthur Case , the Chairman of the bank that Russell is holding up , and it seemed that he has a dark secret hidden inside the bank which he doesn't want revealed . Jodie Foster , as Madeline White the mysterious power-broker , gets employed to muscle her way into the situation between felon and cop , while Dafoe lends his muscle as a police captain , in a good person role for a change . Although the film consists of great performers as mentioned , there are limited scenes in which they share the screen together . But it really didn't matter that much , as the material given was riveting enough , and therefore making each moment they share , more treasured . You are left guessing most of the way as the cat and mouse game got underway , and when the finale is revealed , you can't help but share a smile , that it was yes , executed to plan , the way confident Russell wanted it to be . There is a gripe though , that in the local version , swear words were all being silenced over . Which was irritating as there were gaps in conversation which you have to fill in the blanks by reading lips . Even milder swear words like a-hole were censored blank . What gives ? There are PG films out there which has characters swearing , you know ? And there was one scene which involved a Sikh , that I felt was a tad insensitive . There are times when the movie lapses into prejudices , but maybe that made this movie a little grittier , and in tune with more realistic sentiments and environments . Watch out for that electronic game too , which I thought was a very subtle jab at the kind of games that are selling well in the market , with no regard to the effect on its targeted audience . The highlight of the movie , at least to me , was the opening credits scene , which contained pretty ordinary visuals , mundane even , but when somehow played out to the Hindi Song Chaiyya Chaiyya ( which was the opening song in the Shah Rukh Khan movie Dil Se ) , it added a raw energy factor to Inside Man , with visuals and music blending so perfectly . And it was played to its entirety in the opening , and ending credit sequence - where the characters and the performers name are given a final encore . It's a slick heist thriller , which doesn't conform to the notions of how a heist movie should be . It's the feel good factor at the end of the movie that makes this movie satisfying . This is perhaps the most accessible , and commercial of all Spike Lee Joint films . I'd watch it again , for its engaging politicking story , and for that opening credit sequence . I so love that track , I'm gonna plug it again : Chaiyya Chaiyya Bollywood Joint . Written by A . R . Rahman , Gulzar , Panjabi MC Performed by Sukhwinder Singh , Sapna Awasthi featuring Panjabi MCAwesome earworm , even though I don't understand most of what they're singing : P
A Nutshell Review : 36	The opening in 36 has got to be one of the more arresting ( pun not intended ) starters in a movie I've watched in some time , especially if you're a fan of Euro-electronica , where a catchy tune paces the multiple action happening on screen . The French police is stumped by a gang of armed robbers whose fast and brutal methods leave no witnesses . Of course the politicians are angry and want immediate results in the capture of these criminals . The stakes are raised when a vacant seat in higher office is opened to the officer who manages to do so . Leo Vrinks is a decorated cop with questionable methods . Toeing the line that separates cops from thugs , his team of officers and himself are tasked to bring these criminals to justice . His rival , Denis Klein , also a celebrated cop , wants the case for himself , but unceremoniously gets his team and himself relegated to a support role in the sting operation . Naturally , unexpected things happen during the operation because of Denis ' callous behaviour , and lives on both sides are lost . But no , the show doesn't end there when the thugs are captured , as the rivalry between the men spill over and provides more than sufficient fuel for the second half of the movie . I guess it's the same at most offices , where promotion's at stake , the struggles and intense rivalry may get into the way of the greater good in getting the objective achieved . Methods are questioned , where morality and ethics are put into the spotlight - does the end really justify any means necessary ? Like memorable HK police thriller Infernal Affairs , it is the powerful relationship between the main characters that this drama explores and excels in , with excellent acting from Daniel Auteuil and Gerard Depardieu as the bitter men with ambiguous methods and morales . It's a relatively tight storyline , and you'll have to pay close attention to the subplots in order to be able to piece together how and why the ending was as presented . Highly recommended stuff .
A Nutshell Review : Live !	As reality television become staple programming , we have contestants playing games around the world , or just doing so on an island . We have those that propel some into instant fame upon winning a singing competition , and audience participation is key if ratings are to rocket through the sky . Live ! allows the audience a little of behind the scenes action in a mockumentary that takes a look at how such programmes get conceived with always an eye looking at the ratings , and the other eye looking at potential revenue stream in the form of selling air time to advertisers . Eva Mendes , who also serves as executive producer , stars as Katy , a network station's programming manager out to look for the next big thing to save their flagging station ratings amongst the CBS and the NBCs . In one brainstorming session , the thought of Russian roulette got bounced around , and given the nature of the game - where one puts a loaded gun to the head and pulls the trigger - it borders on simple human decency , and who would want to allow someone getting killed live on air being put out by their station ? And there's where the mockumentary kicks into full gear for the first hour , where we follow Katy ( conveniently she has an indie film crew following her in a bid to make their own documentary ) around the office and engage in some heavy politicking and lobbying of her brainchild through departments such as marketing , sales , legal as represented by corporate counsel Don ( Andre Braugher ) and even to convince the network presidents herself . And it is indeed interesting as you see all the corporate backstabbing , back-biting , and elevator pitches get delivered with conviction to sell something as radical as this , with the stroking of egos constantly being proved to be effective . We also get to be chummy with the would be contestants , as we dig a little into their backgrounds as diverse as an extreme sports athlete , to a farmer struggling to keep his family afloat , from an actress wannabe , to a gay Latino looking for some self-respect . Naturally you expect some stereotyping here , but one thing common with everyone is , so long as you're holding a loaded gun to your head , all bets are off and only a pull of the trigger , if they survive , will decide if they get to stay alive and walk away with the prize money of US$5 million . Which makes you wonder , would you risk it all to do the same , for the same amount of money ? The last moments of the film provide that debut episode , and truth be told , it is rather interesting to watch , playing to our voyeuristic tendencies which make reality TV so popular these days . It's openly admitting to satisfying our blood lust , with death on screen for the masses , like old styled gladiatorial fights , or public executions where you deliberate attend just to see what you've come to see . Those unfamiliar with how live or game shows are produced , get a look behind the scenes as well in the coordination of technical expertise and manipulation to milk shots of the moment , for the goggle box audience . While this is fiction through and through , I wouldn't help but shudder if one day we do have such game shows being put live on the air , packaged as entertainment . Written and directed by Bill Guttentag ( who brought us the documentary Nanking ) , this film does seem rather plain sailing , until of course a shocker of a finale which you probably didn't see it coming , re-emphasizing of course , whether TV violence has a negative aspect to daily lives .
A Nutshell Review : Harold and Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay	For reasons unexplained , I did not watch Harold and Kumar in their quest to look for White Castle on the big screen , even though movies like these are right up my alley ( I need to destress from time to time , with what a friend of mine would describe movies like these as " cock shows " ) . However , I did catch the best bits ( heh ) of the original movie when I was waiting for things to happen on a film set , though technically I have still yet to watch it from start to end . With the sequel now being screened , I am so there already . Beginning directly where the first movie had left off , Harold Lee ( John Cho ) and Kumar Patel ( Karl Penn ) are now en route to Amsterdam , weed capital of the world , where they can indulge in their favourite drug and be high all the time . Secondary objective is of course Harold's quest to look for Maria ( Paula Garces ) , and on the way they bump into Vanessa ( Danneel Harris ) , Kumar's ex-girlfriend who introduced him to the world of marijuana . But with the idiotic duo , what you see in the trailer had to happen , and being accused as agents of North Korea and Al-Qaeda , they get sent to Guantanamo Bay where they soon bust out of . Like the first movie , we follow these two jokers from incident to incident , each playing like a stand alone comedy skit , as they try to evade capture from the Department of Homeland Security , and now with their new quest of looking up Vanessa , so that they can get her influential fiancé to get them off the hook , coupled with Kumar's own vendetta of disrupting the upcoming wedding proceedings . I was somewhat surprised that this movie had some semblance of a flimsy plot to follow , such that it's not mindless random episodes all the way ( such as throwing in the KKK out of nowhere ) . The jokes come from you at all angles - verbal , slapstick , and sometimes just plain irreverent . And for those who are anal retentive , you'd probably foam at the source material for most of the jokes , ranging from the homophobic to the racist , executed so sublimely , you'd probably feel guilty for laughing out loud at the funny bits . And what's a movie like this without the usual gratuitous shots of body parts , female and male , with genitalia on display without a tinge of embarrassment . What more , the camera lingers , especially when filmmakers Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg wanted to probably perpetuate their version of a happening bottomless party in your face . Yep , topless is overrated . But I guess what made this movie click , was that it doesn't hold back , and dared to slow things down by dipping into melodrama-romantic moments which will raise your goosebumps . Friendship between the two idiots get tested , broken ( momentararily ) and healed faster than you can smoke a joint , and Love , well , let's see if the square root of three will make you go " awww " ( some members of the audience actually did ! ) All in all , Harold and Kumar rocks ( Can't believe I'm actually saying that ) , and I guess it's time to hunt down a copy of the White Castle DVD to indulge unabashedly at their original escapade .
A Nutshell Review : A Wicked Tale	I guess there are at least two sides to a fairy tale . On the surface , it's for the children to fantasize in the realm of the make believe , with magical creatures and powers that appeal to impart good morals and values . On a more mature level , there are layers where adults get to enact their own fantasies , and from seemingly innocent texts , there comes the darker themes that show their true colours , depending on how unconventional one's thoughts are when re-interpreting the same story . Stories like Alice in Wonderland will be a whole field day excursion , as would The Little Red Riding Hood . The Brothers Grimm's Little Red Riding Hood gets an updated treatment in Tzang Merwyn Tong's A Wicked Tale , and this was already done back in 2005 , before the likes of Hard Candy coming into the picture , in an exploration of power play . The girl here gets dressed in virginal white to represent her innocence , while yet doesn't do without the quintessential red hood , which hints of something more powerful and sinister perhaps in her discovery and experimentation , as suggested by her dalliance with Death through her proxy fish pets . If Beth ( Evelyn Maria Ng ) is the riding hood object of lust , then the hunter comes in the form of Louis Le Bon ( Johan Ydstrand ) , a charming long haired man spotting a gruff sexy voice who prey on innocence , and has a mind of perverse thoughts in marking his conquests , never mincing his deep dark intent as he explicit describes in innuendos his every move and desire . Added supporting roles include Catherine Sng as GrandMama , who added some spunk Into her character , rather than the meek , ailing senior citizen that was canon , and Wolf Danker as Uncle Charlie , the necessary woodcutter , who's also given a new spin . Tzang gets to play with plenty of different techniques in this 45 minute film , from puppetry in the opening credit sequence , to recreation of the look and feel of the silent film era through skipped frames and intertitles replacing dialogue , and colours or the lack thereof . In presenting the story , Tzang pushes some boundaries into the blood and gore ( which has been superseded by the likes of Kelvin Sng's Kichiro ) , infusing some cheesy B-grade horror and exploitative elements on purpose , thus giving a very raw and edgy feel to the entire film . It's filled with enough sexual perversion and at times , religious references , as it pushed boundaries of asking the perennial question , in the games people play where the mark and the player gets interchanged and blurred , as do the line between the hunter and its prey . But as a cautionary tale like Hard Candy , it again reminds everyone to be prepared for the unexpected when deciding to play with fire , which Is a good servant ( oohlala ) and a bad master ( then you'll get to face the music ) , that there's almost always something more than meets the eye . I suppose with each viewing you'll see something new in A Wicked Tale , and with each iteration , depending on the mood and viewpoint you want to adopt , the textured story clearly cements this as a cult classic to be and can be enjoyed by a larger audience .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) City Sharks ( 2003 )	When the movie premiered in 2003 , I wasn't interested in the film because it starred Nicholas Lee , whose character I abhorred in Under One Roof . It's nothing personal , but somehow felt that the movie won't be worth my time . How wrong was I , now watching the DVD and looking back . The production's pretty slick and professional looking , with an interesting story to tell - not anything sophisticated , but decently entertaining for a commercial film , which should have done better at the box office if not for audiences like me who didn't lend support back then . The movie tells the story of 3 orphans , and coincidentally of different races ( to highlight our multi-cultural society ? ) - Mike ( Nicholas Lee ) , Jeff ( Sheikh Haikel ) and Chief ( Hans Isaac ) . They're losers in life , until Mike chances upon a loanshark's little electronic black book of contacts , and launches into a mini-project with the others to pretend to be the debt collectors , going across the Causeway to reclaim ( illegally of course ) 1 Million Riggit to save the orphanage they grew up in . So it's essentially a road trip for this city boys to the kampungs of Malaysia , pretending to be loan sharks ( hence City Sharks ) , and while they go about their collection , they are chased by , check this - the original sharks from Singapore , gangsters in Malaysia for stepping into their turf , and a girlfriend who was dumped . It's an entertaining movie with a feel good factor , never mind the mild but frequent cursings and swearings . Built on a common theme of adversaries finding brotherhood amongst themselves , it's a simple setup which doesn't try to take itself too seriously , or try to be too sophisticated . There are enough quiet moments to complement set action pieces , and even then , they're usually played for laughs . While there were a number of female characters , the romance portions were found lacking . Between Sherry ( Corinne Adrienne ) and Mike , there was little chemistry , and between Samuel and Betty it was too artificial . But anyway the romance entanglement was never the main focus of the story , though I dug Michelle Saram's sado-masochist character called Deanna ( incidentally , in Sheikh Haikel's other movie Army Daze , his object of obsession was Deanna Yusoff ) who gets turned on with pain . I thought Nicholas Lee was pretty decent as one of the leading men , with his overacting which suited the movie and story just fine . Haikel was essentially playing a larger than life version of himself as an Afro-Rapper wannabe , while Hans Isaac completes the trio with his brooding angry demeanour . While there is chemistry amongst them , at times it was just a wee bit contrived , but watch the DVD extras where they really ham it up for the camera . The supporting casts were mainly drawn from familiar TV faces from both sides of the Causeway , with Koh Chieng Mun , Moses Lim , Marcus Chin , Eileen Wee , Keagan Kang ( a hoot with his faux pas Aussie accent ) , Lim Kay Tong , Afdlin Shauki and Zaibo lending their weight to complete the ensemble . While some were bit cameo roles , I thought that it provided some fun in watching them bring their characters to life with limited screen time . If you had watched S11 , you might recognize Kevin Murphy too in one of the scenes . But what really made the movie , is its array of songs , arranged by the talented Don Richmond , and with other contributions from local bands like The Observertory . To me , music enhances the emotions of certain scenes , and here , be it madcap montages , comedy or serious moments , the music is just top notch . You don't have many local films having their own published soundtrack , so this is one gem to look out for at music shops , if you can find it . Highly recommended , and my opinion was if it's done today , it would probably get a decent audience it deserves , probably even making a box office killing I reckon . The Code 3 DVD surprisingly contains a whole lot of extras , which makes it worthwhile to own , and makes it one of the better local DVDs out there . There are 3 theatrical trailers , a music video for the theme song Stellarblowout by Skrooloose and various deleted / extended scenes , coming from a first cut duration of about 2 . 5 hours . It also has a feature commentary by director Esan and film editor Bing Li , together with Sheik Haikel and Nicholas Lee , which is entertaining enough as they recount the set experiences and shared information on the making of . Deleted scenes - Mike and Jeff in the kitchen talking about collecting debts ( extended scene ) 3mins , Sherry and Fisherman ( Zaibo ) in truck ( extended scene ) 1 . 5mins , Sharks pick up Al ( extended scene ) 1 . 5mins , Sharks in seat covers ( deleted scene ) 1min , Sharks in trouble ( extended scene ) 1 . 5mins , and an alternate ending , which thank goodness wasn't used , because it's kinda choppy and draggy , and quite unbelievable too . There's also a " Behind the Scenes " segment ( 13mins 15s ) - showing the cast monkeying around the film set , of being " tupperware " , having the focus put on the cast in between shoots , and it sure looked hell lotta fun . While the characters in the movie might seem artificial in their interactions at times , you can't deny the chemistry on set , with their incessant crapping . Also included is a City Sharks Documentary " Heart of Darkness - the Making of a Comedy " ( 15mins 30s ) . A mockumentary done in a Survivor reality TV style with plenty of individual bitching sessions by cast and crew alike , as they recount ( fictional ) experiences like having insufficient film stock , and the cast going on a strike on the set . It plays like a mini short film in itself , and while it's a semi-hilarious documentation of actual events between the cast / crew from both sides of the causeway in this Malaysian-Singaporean joint production , it sure looked convincingly real .
A Nutshell Review : Flashpoint	In his black leather jacket and oozing plenty of charisma , Donnie Yen's Inspector Ma Jun quite resembled his other character in SPL , which was also directed by Wilson Yip , because at one point Flashpoint was supposed to be an SPL sequel . But in any case , the character is slightly tweaked . Early in the movie , Ma Jun tells it straight to the camera that as a cop , his job is to apprehend criminals , and it's as simple as that . And the trailers would have you believe here's a man who's lightning quick with his punches , throws and kicks . However , you've got to wait until the hour mark for all that . For action junkies , your patience is severely tested , but the wait is well worth every minute you're put on hold . I've caught the trailer at this year's Hong Kong Filmart , and it was one that had action and more action , with nary a line of dialogue . But in the movie , much time is devoted to attempts in building characterization , until the story realizes it better give what the audiences are here for , to see Donnie Yen kick ass . Having teamed with Wilson Yip in earlier action productions like SPL and Dragon Tiger Gate , Donnie Yen returns as action choreographer for Flashpoint , and the cast adopts the fighting style called MMA - Mixed Martial Arts , which is something of a blend of various martial arts techniques , that audiences probably haven't seen before stylistically in close combat scenes . Flashpoint boasts some incredible action sequences with explosive hard hitting fight combinations , and the sole complaint I have is I can't get enough of it ! What more , as learnt from SPL having real martial arts exponents like Sammo Hung and Wu Jing fighting opposite himself , it made the sequences look more authentic , and the pace at which they can go at each other much more frantic . Collin Chou ( Seraph from the Matrix movies ) stars as one of the chief baddies , and watching the two awesome gladiators duke it out is nothing short of edge of your seat material - you'll feel their pain ! But as I mentioned , you'll have to be patient during the story's buildup . Writer Szeto Kam Yuen ( SPL , Exiled , Dog Eat Dog ) weaves in yet another undercover story into Flashpoint , with Louis Koo's Wilson as the mole within a gang of Vietnamese brothers Ja Ge ( Ray Lui , in an over the top impersonation of Tony Leung's Big D in Johnny To's Election ) , Tony ( Collin Chou ) and Tiger ( Xing Yu ) . A simple romance tale is worked into for Wilson with Fan Bing Bing as love interest Julie , but as expected , action movies seldom have much time devoted for love scenes . Without a doubt , Ma Jun as a character overshadows them all with his motivations and drive . His temper is as quick as his reflexes , and he doesn't tolerate bull from the top brass , which resulted in rather muted ( or negligible ) action for about three quarters of the movie because his behavior is reined in by order . And there is a scene though which will make you question his excessiveness , and wonder if his doggedness in pursuit and apprehension actually clouds his ethical and moral judgment . Flashpoint is still an awesome action movie when the time came for it to deliver the goods , highlighting that Hong Kong action films still have what it takes to innovate within the genre . Oh , and stay tuned during the end credit roll for scenes of outtakes , which shows plenty of training that the cast had to undergo to perfect their MMA techniques . Sure packs quite a punch in this compact 90 minute movie .
A Nutshell Review : 12 Lotus	If amongst the montage of song and dance in 881 were I to pick a favourite , it will be " 12 Lotus " , though it was sung to a relatively upbeat tune . Here , 12 Lotus the song became the backbone in which the story unfolded upon , having its chapters make interludes in between scenes , though not always in consistent terms . Telling the story of Ah Hua the Pitiful Lotus ( played by both Mindee Ong and Liu Ling Ling for the different eras in a twenty year gap ) , it's a tragedy of sizable proportions about the hard life and times of a Getai singer , whose men in her life were all temporal , just like that in Jasmine Women , leaving her to fend for herself with her favorite comfort food in cream crackers , and a Goddess of Mercy statue as a security blanket . Incidentally , lead actor Qi Yu Wu was himself named Guan Yin in 881 , and his security blanket was a live chicken he carried around . There were a couple of plus points in this movie that benefited from its larger budget . Production values were clearly ramped up , and while 881 managed to get away with its knowingly non-existent crowds in its busy Getai scenes , here we have plenty of extras to jam the sessions . Costumes were less glitzy this time around , but nonetheless more gaudy . Songs too seemed to have extra oomph in them , and one performance had the screening hall's bass throbbing and pulsating non-stop . But you don't really get a host of songs featured here , which would really have been like a repeat of 881 , although this time there were newer faces from the Getai scene who were given supporting roles , and a cinematic platform to showcase what they can do to a new audience . Undoubtedly , Liu Ling Ling's fan base and profile grew with her debut cinematic outing in Royston Tan's earlier movie , but while essentially playing a larger than life version of herself in 881 , here she gets to challenge herself in a more dramatic role . In fact , I would say that this movie opened a lot of doors for the cast involved , and had everyone get out of their comfort zones . For starters , Liu's enigmatic presence throughout 881 lifted many portions of that movie , and I thought 12 Lotus was missing her charismatic screen presence for the 1st half , so fans have to patiently wait for her appearance to continue the story of Ah Hua . And even then , it's to continue the drudgery of a fallen idol , which can get heavy on the emotions , in total opposites to her Getai persona , as well as her previous roles . But that's not to say that Mindee Ong was a pushover in the earlier scenes . Given its split structure with a tragic pivot , I thought it was rather wry that there was a scene which the trailer included that involved a splashing of paint onto her during a performance , which of course brought back memories of an actual sabotage attack on her during the promotional tour of 881 last year . But Mindee again proved to have that spark and spunk to pull off Ah Hua's role , one who is willing to sacrifice a lot for the men in her life , but unfortunately , I think one mountain can't have two tigers , so she got to anchor the role in the first half , before Liu Ling Ling's taking over in the second . While Liu had two roles to play in 881 , and Qi Yu Wu didn't even get a speaking line then , it looks like payback time when Royston had Qi take on two relatively different roles here , and coupled it with song , dance , action and enough scenes to emote and show his acting chops - everything that he had missed out on . Qi can already be considered a veteran actor in the feature films already , having a number of starring roles under his belt with that in The Leap Years , 881 and The Home Song Stories , with no signs of stopping as he will soon add Painted Skin to his filmography . In jest , i had even thought 12 Lotus could have been a proper Money No Enough 2 , given almost every character here seemed to have money problems , or because of money being the perennial root of all evil , being a pretext of a lot of trouble to come . There's even a hilarious song and dance sequence which includes some very light jabbing at the policies of the authorities , but don't have me mistaken , this film is not a comedy , and even its laughable moments have a tinge of background melancholy and sadness to it , given the predicament of its characters . Supporting and guest roles would probably be crowd favourites . Huang Yiliang whom we have seen take on a cinematic role in Jack Neo's I Not Stupid 2 , lends a hand here as the compulsive gambling dad of Ah Hua , dispensing advice that was befallen on deaf years . Fans of 881 will also be glad to know that Yeo Yann Yann does return for an extremely small role here , just to complete the casting loop , while songstress Stefanie Sun gets a nice movie debut , and even David Gan seemed game to go back to basics . Hao Hao gets to play the grown up Astroboy , trusted friend of Ah Hua , but it did seem that majority of his dialogue seemed to have been dubbed over in Mandarin to avoid the risk of having the movie not clear the censors for its predominantly Hokkien dialect dialogue . Royston Tan's 12 Lotus is probably his more mature film to date , being able to balance both sensitive drama with formula and material to engage the general local movie-going audience . Sure , 881 was more fun on the whole , but 12 Lotus had a lot more pathos going for it , and that's exactly where this movie shines , learning from 881 and not indulging and allowing the melodramatic moments to go overboard .
A Nutshell Review : Vantage Point	First off , a warning . This film is not told in your standard narrative style of having the story told from start to end . I can't figure out why teenagers were chuckling at it , because it's one of the many ways to keep you in suspense as the details slowly get pieced together , with each part of the puzzle from the vantage point of 8 individuals being joined at one point or another , without which there wouldn't be any whodunnit element , and too many jump cuts from one POV to the other in one single timeline . So there's nothing really amusing about it . That said , you would've gathered from the trailer that this is about an assassination attempt on the life of US President Ashton , played by William Hurt , and the pieces of evidence that different characters have depending on their points of view - innocent bystander , television crew , perpetrators and of course , the US Secret Service , led by Dennis Quaid's Thomas Barnes and Matthew Fox's Kent Taylor . I've always maintained Dennis Quaid as your alternative to Harrison Ford , and here , he takes on a Clint Eastwood like role in being part of the President's detail who has taken a bullet for him , and is now back on active duty . But while he's given top billing in the movie , the movie's divided quite evenly amongst the rest of the cast , save for perhaps Sigourney Weaver as a television news producer . While each individual thread contributed to enriching the story as a whole , I thought that Forest Whitaker's POV was one of the weakest , and brings back memories of Cloverfield's designated cameraman role in wanting to capture the " moment " for all and sundry to see . It also dwelled a bit on American arrogance , where if the movie is to be believed , then the Secret Service has quite a lot of clout to be blazing their guns opening fire amongst sections of crowds , so long as the big man is down - whatever it takes to bring in / take down those whom they believe are involved in the assassination . What I had wanted to see from the suggestion of the trailer was that car chase scene where Quaid's car got smashed from the side , and no doubt it's been a while since I've seen an exhilarating chase sequence from an action movie of late . Kudos to the stunt team here in having 2 mid-sized saloons weave through crowded streets of vehicles and people , and totally let it rip into utter mayhem . One thing's for sure though , that the " bad guys " aren't always as dumb as we'd like them to be . Case in point already through recent incidents at home , and underestimating , lulling into complacency and predictability are three of the worst enemies any protective detail could succumb toward . Of course the screenwriters here have it all planned out to make everyone look smart , and at the end of the day , in crafting a hero out of the situation . But that's just movie-land . Recommended for action movie junkies to tide through the temporary dearth these days , and for that chase sequence which was worth every minute of it .
A Nutshell Review : Alone	Thai writer-directors Banjong Pisanthanakun and Parkpoom Wongpoom have shot to prominence in the horror genre with their debut movie Shutter , which I had regrettably missed its theatrical run here , but more than made up for it by being the proud owner of the ( now autographed ) DVD . In my opinion , having mustered up enough courage to sit through horror movies now ( and find them really enjoyable , at times comedic though ) , I've shuddered at some of this genre's movies which keep on harping on the same thing , and got dumbed down by weak execution . Not Shutter , and definitely not Alone . If you think Banjong and Parkpoom are one hit wonders with their debut movie , then Alone will prove you wrong . Despite having counted on the usual lighting and shadow techniques , quick cut surprises and scares , and the pristine , well-crafted sound effects , it demonstrated that as long as you deliver the product with great technical skill and respect for the medium , it'll still be as enjoyable as watching it all for the very first time . Having a storyline which engages helps as well , and here the duo still seemed to have a thing or two for old photographs , this time showing the subject material of siamese twins , although not as grotesque as those shown in the Alone trailers . While the storyline isn't really that original , with the surviving siamese twin having to encounter the supernatural return of her deceased other , and if you look closely enough there are adequate hints of the revelatory twist to come , what mattered was how the subject again was being introduced and crafted , how tension and suspense were met out , and how easy it is to spook audiences when all the ingredients turn out right . Despite having some premise set up for the obvious , I was still taken aback at one of the scenes , and it is this constant sense of what's coming , and the expected delivery , which will easily make this a successful spook film for the mass audience . The duo had got the male heartthrob Ananda Everingham lead in their previous movie , and now the opportunity is given to the female gender - the beautiful and very photogenic Masha Wattanapanich , who plays the siamese twins Pim and Ploy . Starring opposite them in a Natthaweeranuch Thongmee kinda role , is Vittaya Wasukraipaisan as Wee , Pim's boyfriend . As Pim's mother ( Ratchanoo Bunchootwong ) is suddenly taken ill back in Thailand , the duo have to leave their careers in Korea , and journey back to the homeland , where the unexpected starts to happen . Pim's encounters with who she presumes is Ploy led to Wee thinking that she needs psychiatric help , but slowly , he too gets drawn into the web of supernatural intrigue . And in all earnestness , I'd say Masha had nailed her role to a fitting T . Given that Pim and Ploy's characters are key to the movie , she managed to bring out the vast differences in the character of the two sisters ( of course the teenage actresses who played the younger versions also helped loads ) . In shedding light onto the ongoing mystery , the expected blast from the past recollection and flashback helped provide a certain richness to the entire backstory for all the characters , and in doing so , played on a common theme , one that at times I like to ponder upon - which I cannot elaborate further other than saying , is ignorance sometimes bliss , and can you live a lie ? Alone is excellent stuff , even though the horrific moments might come few and far between , and there possibly was a sub-genre shift in the last 10 minutes or so . Nonetheless its numerous strengths easily outweigh the minute weaknesses , and in having delivered a superbly crafted tried-and-tested story , this could easily be a hit at the box office . Recommended for all you people out there who are itching for a good scare !
A Nutshell Review : Delhi 6	Abhishek Bachchan's character Roshan made a remark relatively early in the movie that made me laugh out loud . While watching a stage play , and not totally well versed in the history nor story , he commented that it was the one about a " golden deer " , and to a certain extent , it was true , but of course totally taken out of context . It reminded me of a personal anecdote many years ago , where a Caucasian couple was standing next to me and watching a lion dance performance . Not knowing what they were , the wife asked the husband , who proudly replied " They're dogs , but they're good dogs ! " . I was chuckling too hard inside to want to enlighten them . And personal stories of life is what Delhi 6 contains , being reportedly somewhat semi - autobiographical of director-co-writer Rakesh Omprakash Mehra's growing up years in Delhi . The film is set against the backdrop of Old Delhi with the postal code of 110006 , hence the title , and for the wide-eyed boy like me who has never been to India ( yet ) , it's quite an eye opener that the film captures plenty of the sights , sounds , food and you can imagine the smells , as seen through the eyes of Abhishek's Roshan . An American citizen , he volunteers to accompany his aged grandmother ( Waheeda Rehman ) back to her hometown in Delhi 6 out of duty and curiosity as to hie ancestry , and for the first half , he's floored by plenty of new experiences formed from interaction with his extended family and friends of his parents and grandparents . From starting out wondering why his grandmother would want to pass away in Delhi 6 , he soon realizes that it's the community spirit that is so strong within the town , that he too fell head over heels with it . And of course , getting to know the neighbouring beauty Bittu ( Sonam Kapoor ) helped too , even though it got off the wrong footing to begin with . This is Rakesh Omprakash Mehra's ode to Old Delhi , filled with plenty of montage , with special effects no less , squeezing all things memorable that he had to say and pay homage to , on all things quirky like the community stage plays , superstition and rites , and down to the negatives like the rampant corruption of those in uniform , as well as the inane media news reporting and the caste issue , as seen through the eyes of an NRI - Non Resident Indian . While the first half may be more touristy in spirit , with the filmmakers opting to showcase plenty of romanticized shots of streets and everyday life courtesy of Roshan's Motorola mobile phone , the tone of the film got more serious after the intermission , exploring base feelings , primal instincts and intolerant mob mentality coupled with sectarian violence . From the onset there's a kind of supernatural / mystery feel to the narrative with the strange hypothesis and theories of a " Black Monkey " being in the midst of and terrorizing residents , and surprisingly I actually appreciated how this angle was eventually treated and wrapped . Sonam Kapoor had her debut in the feature Saawariya which I had enjoyed but unfortunately many didn't and the film tanked at the box office . While Saawariya co-star Ranbir Kapoor had already gone on to make his second film Bachna Ae Haseeno released last year , Delhi 6 marks the second film for Sonam , and I felt that while the role here didn't give her many opportunities to shine , given that it's the usual small town girl with big dreams , and very much more modern than the culture and tradition she is brought up in , again she lights up the screen with plenty of genuine vivaciousness that it actually became quite infectious for you not to fall in love with the character . Like the pet dove , her Bittu too has her wings clipped and tied by the father , preventing her from soaring to fulfill her dreams of becoming an Indian Idol . John Woo would've wondered why he didn't think of a dove-inspired dance ! While Sonam Kapoor was the first choice as the lead actress , surprisingly the lead actor role was bounced around and rejected by many , before Abhishek Bachchan gave the nod . I thought he brought out the role of Roshan quite convincingly , and his ability to single - handedly journey the viewer and navigate the new land was never doubted , bringing his big town tendencies to a small town he doesn't quite understand . And as bonus , no prizes for who was featured as an additional lending of gravitas to the film . I particularly liked how the film inserted many plot devices and elements which were addressed and closed for the most parts , albeit some being done in quite an abrupt manner , such as how the grandmother's intent in the first half got forgotten immediately after the intermission . It did feel quite rushed toward the finale , but all is forgiven for the presence of A . R . Rahman's music . Again he provides some majestic tunes to highlight the key moments in the film , and while I had enjoyed every single one of it , one that I truly liked best was Makahali , which in the film was the name of the clipped dove . It had this really catchy tune that sticks , and picturized very effectively in the film , bringing out emotions of the moment wonderfully . Delhi 6 preaches ( yes it did feel that way , for the lack of time and very obvious ranting in the last act ) about community , how as one people standing united with love for one another , that despite the frequent chaos , no obstacle cannot be overcome . But this balance is ever fragile , and it takes so little of a catalyst of fearing the unknown and unfounded superstition and suspicion to break it all down for the worst . It's a lesson for all of us , to open our minds and not fall prey to negative emotions , especially those that cause more harm to the greater good .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Insider ( 1999 )	Directed by Michael Mann , The Insider belonged to the category of movies with a number of nominations for an Academy Award , but won none . Based on a true story ( of course with some dramatic license taken ) involving the CBS hit television documentary series 60 Minutes , this is a rare insight into the time when the acclaimed series faltered in its editorial stand . WIth whistle-blowing having the local spotlight in recent months , no thanks to the NKF fiasco , this movie tells the tale of integrity in investigative journalism , and how two men rose to overcome personal challenges , to put out a story with damning evidence against the tobacco industry . Russell Crowe plays Dr Jeffrey Wigand , an R & D vice president at Brown & WIlliamson , recently fired for reasons unknown . As he holds an important role in the company , his severance package requires him , and I suppose like all leadership positions in Fortune 500 companies do , to sign a confidentiality agreement . However , he's holding onto something big that could damage the industry , and with these companies , having their reputations and industry survival put on the line , is never cowering to non-conformists . Herein lies the dilemma about moral obligation - if you're privy to industry information that is sensitive to the company , yet in the public's eye can help save lives , and put things into perspective , would you go public with the information ? Wigand was undecided , but hearsay of horror stories , and being compelled to believe that he and his family were being watched , and threatened , he made up his mind that enough was enough , and did what a man would have done , even though it was against his wife's wishes , and didn't the guarantee safety of his family . Besides Wigand , the other protagonist is Lowell Bergman ( Al Pacino ) , who is a producer at the famed 60 Minutes . Fighting to get Wigand's story told , he too runs into opposition from all angles , including internal ones at CBS News . To survive , he had to rely on personal wit and contact to establish and swing things around in his favour , even resorting to giving unauthorized scoops into the inside happenings at 60 Minutes when they decided to air an abridged version of the story . The movie raises a number of interesting questions about the wheelings and dealings of the supposedly free press in the USA , and how when you're under media scrutiny , every little dirty detail you have hidden about your past , will be brought up and blown out of proportion . Grim reminder , but true . The acting by the two leads will keep you riveted as you watch the entire proceedings unfold , until Massive Attack's Safe From Harm ( just the remixed instrumental ) closes the curtain . Code 1 DVD contains the theatrical trailer , a 7min production making-of featurette where you'll see the real Lowell Bergman and Dr Jeffrey Wigand , and a relatively useless Inside A Scene segment where you'll see a partial notes to the actors , script , and the actual scene again , how it played out according to paper .
A Nutshell Review : Abduction : The Megumi Yokata Story	In 1977 , Megumi Yokota vanished without a trace . For 20 years her family had tried to search for an answer , but found nothing , until it was revealed that she was amongst those who were abducted by North Korean spies . The screening today opened with a video address dated in August 2007 by her parents . In it , they shared their experience in dealing with the shock , their efforts , and of course , their steely resolve in hoping that their daughter will be returned to them one day . Containing an ode to Megumi , it was a relatively short video address , but one which I thought summarized the entire movie succinctly . It's an understatement to say that kidnapping is terrible , for both the victim and the parents . But one done without a ransom provided , leaves little clues to the parents , and here , sparked off intense sorrow that I'm sure any parent can identify with - the love and effort in raising a child , now so suddenly taken away with you , with zero trace . There's absolutely nothing to fall back on - no motive , no eyewitnesses , no prior abnormal behaviour noticed , nothing . This documentary charts the 30 years of the time of the abduction until now . It tells of the journey and struggles of Megumi's parents , but provides as a launchpad , an introduction into a mystery unravelled . While the act of kidnapping itself might seem one-off and random , but the putting together of little facts gathered throughout Japan by investigative journalists provided the bigger picture , and ultimately , the ability to point a finger , suggest motives , and seek closure . But closure is something not easy to come by . For those who have been following press reports in recent years , you might have read a bit about the incidents starting from Japan's ex-Prime Minister Koizumi's historic visit to North Korea , and the release of some of the abductees in return for food and medical aid . Diplomacy seemed to be the best , and the only course , for Japan to engage North Korea . North Korea has shown that it doesn't negotiate easily , and it tends to flip flop around given its poor track record and ambiguous and conflicting , unconvincing evidences . Abduction managed to piece together a compelling narrative , and at some times , horrifying too , at how random and perhaps senseless these acts are . But it does suggest some reasons why these Japanese were abducted , and mostly for espionage and training reasons , which seemed highly plausible . What was suspect though , and also not probed in depth , was interviews with the returned abductees . I thought that given it managed to talk to a North Korean defector , it would also be able to get those folks to open up . But perhaps they do not want to talk about their ordeal , or that it's classified information for confidential debriefing only , or like they mentioned , to ensure the safety of those still held by NOrth Korea , one will never know . On a more personal scale , it charts the emotional turmoil and immense efforts by Megumi's parents to champion for the return of their daughter . Red herring , doctored evidence , and even something that should provide the most compelling evidence by far were all rebutted . It's understandable , and the documentary seemed to support and debunk whatever evidence that turns up . There's nothing like parents love , and this film captured all that . 30 years of hope and continued fighting for the truth shows all that . And it is their personal wish that these atrocities are made known to as many people as possible .
A Nutshell Review : The Guardian	There are many , many films out there about various uniformed folk . The police and fire department probably get represented a fair bit in movies , ranging from heroic stories , to tragedies , and some even featuring them in bad light . In my opinion , first movies should always be sort of a tribute story to the boys and girls in uniform , before adding some flavour in subsequent films with more sophisticated stories that can even venture into putting some characters in negative light . Think Backdraft , where you have the good and the bad apples from the fire department . Though on the other hand , first movies can also be hampered by this approach to the storyline , for its emphasis on the introduction of the profession's job scope , in keeping things stuck to a formula , and by having characters no less than heroic . The Guardian , taking on the formulaic approach as a first film featuring the US Coast Guard in recent times , definitely comes with a tinge of familiarity in storyline . The Japanese has already had their tribute to their equivalent of the uniformed group in the Umizaru series ( its second movie being shown here as well ) , and if you combine that with Hollywood's Top Gun ( itself a heroic tribute movie of sorts to the US Navy Pilots ) , you have this movie . In fact , the beginning and end structure is almost similar , with Kodiak , Alaska bookending the movie like what the Indian Ocean did for Top Gun , and both scenes being actual on-the-job action sequences . Having most of its scenes in a training school , and recognizable Top-Gun-ish moments , may make some wince of deja vu , but as I already mentioned , it's formula . This movie's focus is on the US Coast Guard , in particular , a select group of highly trained men and women who are the Rescue Swimmers , the folks who actually take the dive from the choppers into the ocean , to approach ships in distress to coordinate the rescue missions . It's a daily risk to their lives , but their mission , their calling , is in putting the lives of others ahead of theirs . Naturally , being the best amongst the best , does make one appear to be cocky . Ben Randall ( Kevin Costner ) is a highly decorated and dedicated rescue swimmer , having set records and being the stuff of legends with his rescue exploits . However , records are nothing , and the job is not to break records but is actually towards the noble cause of saving lives . This , is what rookie Jake Fischer ( Ashton Kutcher ) has to learn , if he is to survive the course , now being taught by Randall . Naturally , the saying of one mountain's inability to house two tigers ring true , as both men , for personal reasons , rub each other the wrong way . The stern instructor versus the proud rookie , with the former having to see a lot of qualities in the latter , with the potential to exceed his expectations , if nurtured the right way . Randall's unorthodox training methods also raises eyebrows , but to his detractors , his methods are to bridge classroom theories and safe practical sessions , with the real thing . Having to learn from the best in the business always is difficult , and underscores the differences in personalities between Randall and Fischer , one already the best , the other wanting to be , and beat the best . However , both men soon find out that they have a lot more in common , in their seeking of redemption . The movie's well paced , with action , romance , noisy training sessions and quiet moments achieving a rare balance of screen time . Again sticking to formula , having relationships that don't really work out , are hallmarks of partners who cannot endure their partner's long absence given the innate preference to answer the never-ending call of duty . Sela Ward and Melissa Sagemiller play the romantic interests Helen Randall and Emily Thomas , adding some female presence to a movie full of testosterone set in water . The soundtrack is also top notch , with Bryan Adams , yet again contributing a song - Never Let Go , to a Costner movie . I've been a Kevin Costner fan since young , having first watched him in the cowboy movie Silverado . I sat through 3 of his three hour long movies in the theatres - his multi-award winning Dances With Wolves , Oliver Stone's JFK , and Lawrence Kasdan's Wyatt Earp . I've enjoyed his action movies like Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves , and even the classic The Untouchables . This movie will mark his attempt to return as a leading man , given softer appearances in Rumor Has It and The Upside of Anger . Ashton Kutcher might be better known for his mad antics in the television series Punk'd , but here , he ditches madcap humour for some serious drama as a Ray-Ban Cruise clone , the record breaking rookie from high school . My first Kutcher movie happened to be The Butterfly Effect , and I thought he brought some of the edginess from that role over here . Despite being a formula movie , I'd recommend it for being one of those rare heroic movies that come out from Hollywood , paying tribute to the uniformed group it's based on . Stay tuned during the end credits for some breathtakingly beautiful scenic helicopter fly-by scenes and historical photographs of the advent of the US Coast Guard , played along to songs from the soundtrack . " Run Me In The Dirt " is fast becoming one of my favourite tunes . " So Others May Live "
A Nutshell Review : Rendition	Think of it as an extreme form of detention without trial . Without commenting and taking a side on the US Foreign Policy , the process of Extraordinary Rendition involves taking persons suspected of terrorist activities to a foreign country , an opposite to an extradition if you wish , to a place where torture is not a crime but a means to illicit information . Instead of staining your soil with blood of potentially innocent parties , you do so on foreign land where such tactics are accepted interrogation techniques . Naturally , given the severity of the tactics and attempts at breaking down a person , sometimes you would get what you want once you pass the resistance , or get nothing , or worst of all , get a confession just because the mind has been broken to the point that the subject will agree to whatever you say . It's an ugly process , and what better way to do it when you're the champion human rights , giving the nod to use whatever means necessary in the name of protecting more lives , in an age where information is key to the battle against terror , and doing so in a country where probably the rights record is questionable . Rendition is this year's Syriana , though in the run up to the new year we do have a number of political thriller contenders to take that crown , with Rendition first of all , followed by the Robert Redford movie Lions for Lambs , starring Tom Cruise and Meryl Streep ( again , though now on the other side of the fence ) , and The Kingdom with Jamie Foxx and Jennifer Garner , though this one would probably turn out to be more action driven . Directed by Gavin Hood , who did Tsotsi and will be helming the new Wolverine spin off , Rendition is a decent thriller with a top notch cast , in a narrative that has been proved quite popular these days - the split , which provides for some ample differential perspectives to be presented through an ensemble cast . Anwar El-Ibrahimi ( Omar Metwally ) , a chemical engineer , gets renditioned en route to going home under the orders of CIA top brass Corrine Whitman ( Meryl Streep ) . At a detention facility outside the US , Jake Gyllenhaal's CIA analyst Douglas Freeman ( oh so prophetic ) embarks on his very first interrogation session , no doubt being thrust into a position that he didn't sign up for . Back home , a very pregnant Reese Whitherspoon searches frantically for answers to her husband's disappearance , and sought after an ex-flame Alan Smith's ( Peter Sarsgaard ) assistance , since he's working for Senator Hawkins ( Alan Arkin ) . Throw in J . K . Sinmmons , a terrorist plot investigation and a budding forbidden love story between Fatima ( Zineb Oukach ) and Khalid ( Moa Khouas ) , you have quite a bit going on in a busy picture . Given a number of casts , locations , timelines and the likes , Rendition wasn't confusing at all , and it plays out with deft handling of the material , never quick to judge , presenting ideas and thoughts from both sides of the equation . Every character has their own agenda , and the unveiling of this agenda engages enough not to bore nor to confuse you . And the best part of it all is how , very truly , they bow down to self-preservation in different forms , and ultimately , in various lose-lose situations unfortunately . It kept you guessing as well - did he or didn't he , and constantly played with your mind as to whether Anwar deserved what he's getting . It utilized one extremely smart sleight of hand which I didn't see coming until it's too late ( so there goes the credit ) , though it did succumb to the usual stereotyping of terrorist militants , and without spending much time in depth to explore their motivations . Perhaps it didn't find a need to , given so many movies out there already touching base on this issue ( Paradise Now , Day Night Day Night , Syriana even ) . While it turned out to be rather one-dimensional ( personal tragedy to strapping of bombs to become a suicide bomber ) , I felt Rendition did right in not providing any saccharine sweet ending , that this fight against negative , destructive ideology , isn't something that can be addressed in a two hour movie , and I'm glad it steered clear such fairy tale implausibilities . What we have instead is a well crafted tale that sets its gun sights on the issue of Rendition , and probably capable enough to spark discussion once the lights come on , on which camp you belong to - do you support inflicting severe pain in interrogation ? Yes or No ? This is the quintessential question of our time . Yes or No ? ( OK , I'm already geared for Lions for Lambs ) !
A Nutshell Review : ( SIFF ) The President's Last Bang	I've always enjoyed films which are based on historical / political events , even though they have a fictional element thrown in to spice things up . Films like Oliver Stone's controversial JFK , or Roger Donaldson's Thirteen Days ( hmm . . both starred Kevin Costner ) , are always in my list as definite must watch . Not that they are accurate , but at least they provide some kind of ground work from which you can build your research upon ( and therefore being able to verify its accuracy somewhat ) . The first shot of this movie suggested a bang of a different kind . For a short while anyway , with its topless scenes . Anyway it was used to suggest the philandering , womanizing ways of ex-South Korean President Park Chun-hee , where agents of South Korea's CIA equivalent ( KCIA ) get the unglamorous job of seeking out starlets for the President's company . The movie paints the dictator Park in an unfavorable light . with his corrupt ways and highlights the last day of his life , leading to his assassination by KCIA director Kim during a routine dinner . I liked the dinner scene , where the table of top government officials - President Park , his fat slob of an arrogant chief bodyguard Cha ( who refuses to carry a weapon ) , scheming Chief Secretary Yang , all having opposing views with Kim . They drink and make merry , insulting foreign politicians like the Philippines ' and the US ' ( heh , surely I'd like to listen in on what their opinions of other countries ' political leaders are really like ) . You can read Kim's frustrations with the regime , and takes it upon himself to do something before the night is up . Roping in a few good man , like Chief Agent Ju , and Agent Colonel Min , they plot to take severe action that will change the course of their history , whether or not they succeed . And that's where the tension and pace starts to pick up , with men making split-second decisions to make choices and follow their loyalties , and where the movie unfolds as a stylish , violent , and extremely bloody actioner set to cool beats of music . There are a number of scenes which put a smile on my face , especially when you realize the similarities amongst various issues . Like when the top brass of the military comes driving into Army HQ in civvies and in a civilian car , the lowly guard at the guard house fail to recognize him and start to make things really difficult during identity verification ( respecting the rank and not the person ) , and for all the " wayang " in camps , there is absolutely insufficient ammo ( or none at all ) to load weapons to stage a military arrest . And there are the clueless " chao keng " small fry agents who are caught up in the entire situation without knowing the big picture as well - isn't this quite typical ? Red tape and bureaucracy , and the incompetence of most MPs in deciding the next course of action , also goes to show how ill prepared the cabinet is when faced with emergencies of such nature . The reliance on one man , and the over-confidence that no matter of this nature could happen , helped to provide Kim and his men with buying of some time to decide on their own next steps . The sad part being while they know who they must kill , they too are ill-prepared as they have not crystallized plans for the aftermath . The ending's pretty abrupt with narration giving you the lowdowns on what happened to the men involved in the assassination . However , the execution ( pardon the pun ) and delivery of the movie , makes this one heck of a suspenseful , tightly paced movie , with some comedy sprinkled in to lighten up the gloom . Recommended stuff .
A Nutshell Review : The 11th Hour	I guess we can attest that the local weather of late has gone bonkers . More often than note , we have incredibly hot and humid weather with bright sunshine one half of the day , before the skies turn grey and pours heavily on us . We've seen even more occurrences of water spouts emerging just off our shore , and we've done the boogie when neighbouring countries suffer jolts in the earth , from which we will feel tremors enough for us to abandon our high rise buildings . While we're relatively buffered from direct adverse weather effects , not a day goes by without reading or knowing about strange weather phenomenon from around the world . The Earth is dying , and nature is taking its revenge on us for plundering her lands and exploiting her resources in a wasteful manner . The signs are out there , but we'd rather be oblivious to them . And Al Gore , after his attempt to ascend the White House , has gone back to his pet subject , and evangelized about saving the earth through his very slick package , which was given a cinematic life by Davis Guggenheim with An Inconvenient Truth . A call to action , I don't deny that I've started to pay a little more attention to it , and though my effort can be considered minuscule , I suppose it's but a start . Leonardo DiCaprio lends his star power to The 11th Hour , which he produced and narrates , but unlike Al Gore who can be considered a subject matter expert in his own right , given his years of devotion to this topic , DiCaprio realizes his deficiency in this area , and smartly takes a backseat by just narrating a very small portion of the movie , leaving most of the talk to true experts who can properly articulate and appeal to our common senses . In that respect , The 11th Hour provided a much more diverse perspective of the entire situation , from the micro to the much bigger picture of the entire ecosystem , and the various views , philosophies and schools of thought . Arguments come fast and furious , with content ranging from discussions of fossil fuels , global warming , an interesting articulation of present and ancient power sources , and the astonishing rate of our population boom vis-a-vis the ability of the planet to sustain life , not just ours , but every other species on the planet which will depend on our ( mis ) management of common resource . The 11th hour contains a very compelling look , not just at the environment as a standalone , but turns the spotlight on us as its inhabitants as well . We get bombarded from all directions with opinions , and statements of an impending apocalypse of our own doing , and I assure you if you're not frightened by the Revelation , I don't know what will . It's not just slick Keynote presentation which Gore's material is utilizing to bring the message across ( and a very effective one I might add ) , and we also get the usual stock videos of hurricanes and well referenced clips of the melting polar caps . It's unfair to compare Inconvenient Truth to 11th Hour , as both have used different styles to bring across the same message - that the fate of the world , and of course , our survival as a species , is very much dependent on what we do now to effect a change . The Earth is renewable and can self-heal given an immense amount of time , but we have but one chance to make things right , for ourselves . But before you think of this documentary as just being another harbinger of doom and gloom , The 11th Hour does end off on a very hopeful note , just like how An Inconvenient Truth did . Here , it focused on renewable and recyclabl e methodologies which we might have already come across , albeit in a small , niche way yet to convince mega corporations to adopt . Perhaps with time , when feasibility is demonstrated , they would , and that's when we need to wean ourselves off the reliance of oil , which are hitting record prices per barrel , and arguably the cause of unnecessary war . The new building designs look awesome , especially with the incorporation of green technologies , adopted no less from the learning of how organisms operate . Think of it as adopting the best practices from species and the natural environment , and fusing it with our modern day technology and designs . The 11th Hour is a must watch , not only for enlightenment purposes , but rather for a call to action once the lights come on . Again we need to be reminded on how much we can do , and to actually do it . Last year we listened to An Inconvenient Truth , and now , The 11th Hour brings forth that sense of urgency to do much more .
A Nutshell Review : Daisy	Flowers ! If it's one thing you'll take away from this movie , it's gonna be the flowers . They feature so prominently and are used as plot devices , you'll become an expert in identifying with daisies and black tulips by the time the movie ends . Set in Amsterdam , Daisy tells the frustrating love triangle story between 1 girl and the 2 men in her life . One a professional hit-man eking out a living , the other an Interpol agent . Featuring a Pan-Asian cast ( Korean , Hong Kong ) and crew ( director Andrew Lau from Hong Kong , writer from Korea , and a Thai post production team ) , I could imagine the headaches in coordination . Park Yi ( Jung Woo-sung ) is a hit-man who found a soft spot for painter Hye-young ( played by the pretty Jeon Ji-hyun ) . It's love at first sight in the meadows of daisies , where her clumsiness caught his attention . However , being shy and ever mindful of the dangers of his professional career , he can only admire her from afar , do little ( or perhaps big ) things for her in an anonymous fashion , but the one that takes the cake is sending her potted daisies everyday without fail at 4 : 15pm . He becomes her guardian angel from afar , shielding her and keeping her safe from harm . Hye-young is in love with this mysterious stranger . She is constantly waiting for him to appear , but I really wonder how difficult could that be given the almost punctual daisy delivery . Nonetheless , she's terribly moved , and touched by this sole act . However , as the stars would have it , interpol detective Jeong Woo ( Lee Sung-jae ) chances upon Hye-young at a town square during one of his undercover missions , and he too is captivated by her . In a similar fashion , because of his profession , he is doubtful if he should make the first move . Which is where the audience would find it frustrating . The lady obviously would fall for the wrong guy ( then again , it's the " good " guy ) , Park Yi being infuriated by Jeong Woo's pursuit , but yet still refuses to step out and identify himself , and Jeong Woo being the opportunist in grabbing the free anonymous identity unwittingly . It's almost as if you wanna give everyone a slap to wake them all up . That aside , it is precisely this tension that keeps you intrigued . And it is wickedly fun to watch the two male leads finding it tough to fall in love without jeopardizing their careers , or their loved one . But fret not action fans , there are enough cat-and-mouse revelations and unsaid camaraderie in the mould of Infernal Affairs , as well as ample gunfights , although I felt the ending could have been scripted tighter . What rocks is the clever editing . Telling the story in a non-linear timeline ( no worries , it ain't that bad , you'll still be able to follow the narrative ) from the points of view of all the leads , keeping you in suspense , and culminating in a three way split screen showcasing all their emotions in a single converging event , which I thought was extremely well-done . It's a beautiful film in terms of landscapes of lush meadows and busy city squares , with plenty of classical music to sooth the soul . As with romance movies , all the leads are eye candy - the girls will have a field day with the two handsome male leads , while the guys have to make do with a somewhat pudgy-faced ( argh ! OK lah , at certain angles ) Jeon Ji-hyun . If you're into a romance movie with an equal balance in the action / tension department , then Daisy would be your choice . If you prefer a more conventional weepy , then the other Korean movie making its debut here at the same time , You are My Sunshine , would be your alternative . And yes , I totally dig the ending scene , which I thought only the Koreans do it best ? Kinda reminded me of the JSA one .
A Nutshell Review : Ocean's Thirteen	13 is not an unlucky number for this Steven Soderbergh directed franchise . With many a blockbuster presenting their third installments this summer - Spider-Man , Pirates of the Caribbean , Shrek , Bourne and the likes , Ocean's 13 bested those that have already gone before , with something light and breezy , although rehashing the tried and tested formula employed in Ocean's Eleven . I've always enjoyed heist movies , and Ocean's Eleven was a very smart one at that , given the bonus of having assembled some of the top names in Hollywood and having some of them play second fiddle . It was thoroughly fun , and I thought it had a very smart exit strategy . Ocean's Twelve however was a little flat , as the ending was a bit of a cop out , and didn't really excite with its smart alecky narration finale . The only memorable events from Ocean's Twelve were Bruce Willis and how Arsenal football club was weaved into the proceedings . Ocean's 13 leaves behind Europe and returns to where the action started , back to Vegas , where Willie Bank ( Al Pacino ) , the most unscrupulous man on the strip , plays out Reuben ( Elliott Gould ) of their joint casino hotel The Midas - now renamed The Bank hotel , and causes the latter to suffer from a stroke . The rest of the Ocean gang , led by Danny Ocean ( George Clooney ) are mad , and congregate back in Las Vegas to seek revenge the best way they know how - to steal and to humiliate Bank on the opening night of his new casino . And we welcome back the friends we know from the previous two movies , with Brad Pitt as Rusty Ryan the right hand man , who also opened this movie as he did the previous installment , Matt Damon as Linus Caldwell , who is looking to break out of the shadows of Danny and Rusty to prove his worth , Bernie Mac , Don Cheadle , Qin Shaobo the kungfu kid , Casey Affleck , Scott Cann , Carl Reiner and Eddie Izzard . There's no Julia Roberts and Catherine Zeta Jones , both of whom were written out of the movie early , between conversational pieces of Danny and Rusty . Gone are the two leading ladies , only to be replaced by a very wrinkled Ellen Barkin as Abigail Sponder , the personal assistant to Bank . The chemistry amongst the thieving team remains intact , as once again we experience the camaraderie amongst the sarcasm and wit , with the banter between Danny and Rusty being pure gold , especially their final exchange with real life references . However , the scene stealer here ( the other contender being Carl Reiner's absolutely hilarious role ) is definitely Matt Damon . Still wanting to get into the thick of the action , and ever ready to volunteer for key roles , his Linus Caldwell is a hoot to watch , especially when he goes under disguise . A far departure from his more serious roles , like the upcoming Bourne Ultimatum ( also the concluding part of the franchise ) , he fits that mummy's / daddy's boy figure to a T . While we get to return to the Bellagio , and with spanners thrown into our jolly men's plans , Ocean's Thirteen does feel a little dragged out . The structure's the same , with the middle part hinging on the setting up of the elaborate plan , leaving the final moments for the execution and the exit strategy with a twist . Sometimes having too much of a good thing do make the pace a little wonky . There's nothing really new to expect , except that Soderbergh actually went a step ahead and pulled the rug from under the audience's feet , and it's a clever little rouse involving the trailers you see for the movie . Now that's pure gem . What should put bum onto the seats will be the return of familiar faces into the roles , and in all honesty , a franchise episode that actually feels refreshed .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Say Anything ( 1989 )	It's weird , but it has happened . I've been subconsciously borrowing DVDs which has John Cusack starring in them , and this time , it's John Cusack together with one of my favorite storytellers ( storyteller , cos he wrote and directed his own films ) Cameron Crowe , in Crowe's directorial debut with Say Anything . From this early work , you can't help but notice the foundations laid for Crowe's later works , with the loads of music incorporated and some moving the narrative forward , and the enjoyable characters he creates - some seem so ordinary , yet so real and special , the idiosyncrasies that have , the quirky situations they're put in , the character development . Ordinary , identifiable characters have become hallmarks , and in this film , it is no different . Perhaps what made this simple story endear itself , is the chameleon John Cusack . Here , he plays average joe Lloyd Dobler , who has just graduated from high school , but has no big plans for himself in the aftermath . He's at a lost at what to do , but had stunned his cohort by dating the school sweetheart , and the brainiest scholar at that . That unattainable beauty with brains , Diane Court ( Ioan Skye ) , the object of every schmuck's desire . But then you have her overprotective father who objects to their relationship ( don't they always ? ) and a looming corporate scandal ( like NKF's ) which questions morality between two different camps of thought . The bigger picture might already seem familiar given that the boy - meets - girl - love - breakup - reconciliation theme has been done to death , but what appeals is the really witty dialogue amongst characters , despite some stuff looking out of date ( hey , it's a 1989 movie after all ) . The Special Edition Code 1 DVD comes with so many extras , check this - 13 extended scenes ( those shortened to speed up the pace , so it's included here instead ) , 10 deleted scenes ( those that didn't make the final cut , which explained in more detail certain subplots like the corporate scandal cum investigation ) , and 5 alternate scenes . There's also an audio commentary by Crowe , Cusack and Skye , as well as the theatrical trailers .
A Nutshell Review : Nancy Drew	I last read a Nancy Drew book about 20 years ago , so much of my memory of the fictional character is probably faulty . From what I gathered , the books were introduced to me at an era when teenage sleuths were popular to children growing up at the time ( for my case , the 80s and early 90s ) , with Hardy Boys , Famous Five , and of course , " Carolyn Keene " ' s Nancy Drew amongst the more famous ones . I still remember those hardcover books with very dated cover illustrations , usually quite heavy ( for a kid ) to lug around , and the thickness of the book perhaps attributed to the fact that the words are printed in large fonts . Well , the character has been given some updates along the way , as I recall my sister's subsequent Nancy Drew books becoming less thick , of softcover , with updated and a more chic Nancy illustrated on the cover . I can't remember if those stories were the same as the old hardcover ones , but I guess these books , being ghostwritten , have their fair share of updating itself for the times . In this Warner Brothers release of Nancy Drew , the character no doubt gets its update to suit the times , but somehow the writers Andrew Fleming and Tiffany Paulsen maintained her 50s - ish small town sensibilities , thereby retaining some charm and flavour that erm , folks like me , would appreciate . Her fashion sense , her prim and properness , even some quirky little behaviour traits that makes her , well , Nancy Drew . Her family background remains more or less the same , living with her single parent father Carson Drew ( Tate Donovan ) , who is moving his daughter and himself to the big city for a better job opportunity , and to wean his daughter off sleuthing in the town of River Heights . Mom is but a distant memory , and the housemaid makes a cameo . But what made Nancy Drew work , is the casting of Emma Roberts in the lead role . Niece of her famous aunt Julia , she too possess that sprightly demeanour , that unmistakable red hair and that megawatt smile . Her Nancy Drew , while in the beginning does seem to rub you the wrong way , actually will grow on you . And in almost what I thought could be a discarded scene from Pretty Woman , it had the characters walk into a classy shop with almost opposite reactions . While Dad Carson Drew tries hard to bring Nancy out of her sleuthing environment and to assimilate into normal teenage life , trust Nancy to find themselves living in a house whose owner , a Hollywood type has been , was found murdered under suspicious circumstances . Mystery solving is her comfort food when she finds herself an outcast of the local fraternity , and not before long we're whisked off along with her on her big screen adventure . There's nothing too Black Dahlia about the crime and mystery , and instead it's a pretty straightforward piece for Nancy to solve , in between befriending Corky ( Josh Flitter ) a chubby friend from school , and pacifying jealous boyfriend Ned ( Max Thieriot ) , while hiding the truth of her extra curriculum activities from her dad . The story's laced with cheesy fun and an oldie sentimentality which charms , and together , it becomes somewhat scooby-doo like . With minimal violence and no big bag gunfights or explosions , this is seriously a genre which is labelled clearly with " chick flick " alert . I guess the movie will generate a new generation of fans , rekindle the memories of old ones , and probably , just probably , might spark a new fashion trend of sporting penny loafers .
A Nutshell Review : Beautiful Boxer	I suppose many non-Thai action film fans have their first exposure to the Thai martial arts of Muay Thai through movies like Ong Bak or Tom Yum Goong , both starring Tony Jaa . But the Muay Thai scene in Thailand was set abuzz in the 90s when transvestite warrior Nong Toom took to the stage and battled it out with other gladiators , while at the same time battled the prejudice he faced because he was different . Nong Toom was big at one time , with many media around the world following his exploits , as he wore makeup into the ring , and planted kisses on his defeated opponents . Beautiful Boxer is director Ekachai Uekrongtham's first feature film ( he also did the movie about our Geylang scene with Pleasure Factory ) , and the movie is a biography of Nong Toom ( played by real kickboxer Asanee Suwan ) and his dream of being a woman . Born to poverty and without means to fulfill his dream , he takes on the sport of Muay Thai for its lucrative awards , in part to provide for his family , and also as a means to save up for his sex change operation . His coach Pi Chart ( Sorapong Chatree ) sees the potential of his protégé , and while he doesn't chide Nong Toom for his feminine ways , had only one request , that he fights like a man in the ring . Similar to various fight sports biopics like Rocky and Cinderella Man , Beautiful Boxer charts the ups and downs of the protagonist , except that it ups the ante with Nong Toom's personal struggles , which present themselves as a bigger challenge with prejudice and misconceptions to fight , instead of the usual fight-against-poverty storyline . And like the movies in the genre , the battle in the ring is a sight to behold , as they get choreographed expertly , yet maintain a romantic , sexy look at the form of the sport . While Nong Toom does battle with various exponents , the filmmakers took great pains to ensure the fights differ from battle to battle , to make it interesting to watch without being repetitive , and we do see certain ancient moves that we've yet to see with the Tony Jaa movies . Asanee Suwan , a first time actor who auditioned for and gotten the role of Nong Toom , played the character with great earnestness , and was extremely convincing in his role as a man who struggles to find a way to bring the inner woman out in him . He made Nong Toom very humane , and you can really feel his pain and triumphs in and outside the ring . Nong Toom in any case was an interesting person to begin with , especially the way he handles discrimination . There were many poignant moments in his story from childhood , and what I thought was quite affecting was how he had to fend for himself in the ring especially - Fighters will find it a lost of face if they lose to someone " less than a man " , and this led to fighting Nong Toom more intensely , which of course made Nong Toom fight back even harder . While he couldn't do much about people laughing at him , he had to learn to feed off these negative energy to spur him on to win . It's a movie that works on both the emotional level and the physical side with its fight action sequence , and one of the better sports-fight biopics I have seen . Look out too for a cameo by the real Nong Toom ( now known as Parinaya Charoemphol after his sex-change operation ) . It brought to mind an adage which I shall paraphrase - the person might be different , but the struggles faced are the same .
A Nutshell Review : Perfumed Nightmare	Filipino filmmaker Kidlat Tahimik calls Perfumed Nightmare his " magic carpet " , as over the last 30 years , his first film is still bringing him to countries and film festivals around the world , reintroducing the film to new audiences and film students when it's screened in universities . An unconventional film , it is quite hard to believe that this monumental effort is a first film , having captured life in the village , before going overseas to Paris and Munich for the latter half . Kidlat Tahimik stars as himself , in a semi-autobiographical way , that traces the life of a village boy , and his journey to the outside world . It's like a coming of age story with relevance to today still , with the impact of globalization more keenly felt as the modern world feels more like a global village , and with the almost inevitable assertion and influence of dominant popular cultures over traditional values . Kidlat ( the movie character ) is a Jeepney driver , who is an aeronautical buff , having hailing himself as President of the Werner Von Braun club in his village of Balian . A fan of the Voice of America radio show , he gets offered to go to Paris by an American on a botched jamboree ( which was then , and still is now , a very keen inclusion of the said country's foreign policy style ) , to work in the gumball vending machine business . That basically forms the gist of the outline as imagined by Kidlat the filmmaker , who worked on this without a prepared script . The opening shot where a vehicle crosses to and from a narrow bridge , set the mood of the film - fun , eccentric , unpredictable , almost a mirror of Kidlat's character . Shot on Super 8 , the special effects that he had included , and the various narrative techniques incorporated into the movie , makes you marvel at the rather innovative ways a filmmaker with a shoestring budget , gets his story told . I liked very much the fantastical sequences he had put in to tell the back story of his father , as well as the very horrific , almost documentary like style of capturing a village circumcision ritual , which must be seen to be believed , how it will actually would make you reel and feel pain ( and you thought the Hard Candy one was bad enough ) . There is no doubt that his passion and exuberance shone through this charming , imaginative film , which won him the International Critics Award at the 1977 Berlinale Forum of New Cinema . For those who missed the screening tonight ( on 16mm film projection ) , you can cross your fingers as to a DVD release , possibly as early as next year !
A Nutshell Review : Hollywoodland	Death under mysterious circumstances make good stories for the paper mills . And celebrity deaths all the more so , as they sell . The Curse of Superman is probably one of the well known controversies ( coincidences ? ) of today , and one of its victims was George Reeves , who played Superman in the 50s , and apparently committed suicide in his home one late night . The mystery and conspiracy theories are plenty , given that it's Tinseltown after all . Ben Affleck's second role as a costumed superhero , though this time it's indirectly as he's the screen version of George Reeves , who's better known , and type-casted as The Man of Steel . The Reeves portrayed here is a flamboyant has-been , looking for his next big break , but gotten romantically tangled with Toni Mannix ( Diane Lane ) , wife of MGM executive Eddie Mannix ( Bob Hoskins ) . Becoming a kept man , he's leashed to Toni Mannix's whims and fancies , and as the iconic hero of the immensely popular television series , becomes the reluctant role model for countless of young fans , who sometimes cannot tell the line between reality and fantasy . The movie takes on double narratives , one which chronicles the life and death of George Reeves , while the second is set in current reel time with a focus on private detective Louis Simo's investigations into the Reeves ' death . In part , Simo was serving his own self-interest , as this kind of investigations raises his profile , as well as bringing in the dough from Reeves ' mother , who believes there was something more to her son's death . The editing here is done excellently , as you'll hardly feel anything forceful or contrived during scene transitions , or transitions in time . Typical of a movie which doesn't present any new evidence , you're presented with various possibilities , and not having the movie commit to any one version . It's up to you to determine which is which , but I thought the last one was perhaps the most probable of them all , sad as it is , because of one of the final scenes which I thought would be more compelling reason . A has-been looking for his next big break , but because of circumstances , unable to break from the chains of typecast , and knowing that he's no longer a spring chicken . Frustrated , unhappy , and desperate perhaps . Ben Affleck brought out the troubles facing Reeves rather admirably , and the kudos he obtained for his role her is justified . Warner Brothers , who owns DC comics and in turn Superman , was reportedly unwilling to allow the filmmakers to use the original introduction of the Adventures of Superman television series , or to allow the trademarked insignia to be used in the movie . But when watching Hollywoodland , I didn't spot any marked departure from logos that we already all know , though it was a hoot that you'll see Superman with booze and cigarette . Perhaps it is this non-heroic image that DC / WB was concerned about ? On a side note , given the NC16 rating , there was one jarring edit , which pertained to the sex scene after the line " Maybe Superman does want to get laid " . You'll get to hear something , but the visuals jump cuts to an interior shot from a car . It's a tight drama with enough material for an adequate whodunnit , with good performances all round by the cast . I'd recommend it , if you're up for some dirt behind Tinseltown's glitz .
A Nutshell Review : Dostana	Dostana scores a number of firsts . One being set entirely in Miami , with the glorious shots of golden beaches and opportunities for the cast to show off their toned bodies ( for the first few minutes , John Abraham seemed too eager to get rid of his singlet every few minutes ) . And the other first scored was that this is the first Bollywood film to have a focus on a gay relationship , albeit a faked one , between its two leading men . For an industry that's still sans on-screen sex , where kisses still bring upon rage , and nudity a no-no , is it any wonder why this premise , together with its A-list stars , will draw in the crowds without a doubt ? Some 4 years ago , Abhishek Bachchan was busy chasing John Abraham as hero and villain in the action-adventure Dhoom . In between they only shared credits in Kabhi alvida Naa Kehna , and it is not until now that the two alpha-males get put together in the same film , share plenty of screen time together , and the joke's clearly on their effeminate behaviour and gay relationship . Imagine two muscular jocks having to turn girly at a wink of an eye , and that itself sets up a tsunami of laughs in plenty of situational gags that will leave you genuinely in stitches . I shudder to imagine how real gays would , or would not take offense at the portrayal here , given that most of the time , gayness is equated with being hip and in with modern culture , which I think some would clearly dispute . Nonetheless it is the attempts at debunking the myths and prejudice that surrounds the condition that warrants some merits at least , even though it's still an outright comedy , and I guess all could be forgiven since there are two eye-candy male leads to serve up some compensation . At first one would imagine a plot that would be similar to I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry , given two obviously straight men having to pose as a gay couple to further their own objectives , which of course runs contrary to any romantic notions they have for the opposite sex . Here , Sameer ( Bachchan ) and Kunal ( Abraham ) start off as two strangers in Miami who bump into each other after their individual one night stands ( with opposite members of the sex of course ) , but thereafter find themselves eyeing the same piece of affordable swanky rental apartment , which comes with a crucial string attached - no guys , because the occupant is a lady ( Chopra ) whose aunt refuses to let tongues wag should her housemates be two hunks . So you know the drill , faced with time constraints and the prospect of staying with Neha the hot chick , both guys pretend they are gays , thus setting in motion plenty of comedy as they have to maintain their cover 24x7 , and to make matters worse , have to cement their relationship legally as a means to keep Kunal from being deported . And if that's not all , each of them still harbours the thought of hooking up with Neha , which of course poses a challenge given their known " status " . One of the best scenes in the movie involves almost everyone , from mothers to bosses to even an immigration officer who converge in their apartment in a free for all , where bluff goes against bluff , and the two chaps have to be at their best to satisfy the law , as well as to stave off a very interested magazine editor . I can't remember the last time I laughed that hard and loud . But of course things slow down a little in the second half of the film when Neha's new boss ( Bobby Deol ) comes into the picture to woo Neha , which Sameer and Kunal try to fend off with their wits in what would be co-opetition at its very best . Scheming and conniving all the way , you'd come to expect lies becoming bigger lies , with questionable methods being put into use in order to drive the new competition away . Which brings it quite nicely to an ending that I guess is a fair outcome . Dostana speaks of friendship , and sometimes , relations are best left at that given the numerous enjoyable moments everyone shares , without complicating matters . Dostana , despite its theme , still plays out to be an enjoyable , entertaining movie brought to life by its excellent casting . Songs and dances were pretty much standard fare , save for that convergent scene which I mentioned was the highlight of the film . Do look out too for the very cheeky wordings on the T-shirts that both Bachchan and Abraham don .
A Nutshell Review : Eastern Promises	David Cronenberg's previous offering , A History of Violence , was hailed by many as a work of genius and made it to the mainstream paper's top movie of 2005 . But I thought the original story in the graphic novel form was far superior , as he injected his own take for the second half of the film , which earned William Hurt an Academy Award nomination for his role as a gangland boss . Those in tuned with Cronenberg's works will know that his movies are usually warped in certain ways , but with A History of Violence , and now Eastern Promises , it seemed that they have become easier to grasp , and perhaps even more mainstream in its appeal . In some ways , Eastern Promises is like a watered down version of Francis Ford Coppola's masterpiece The Godfather . Set in London and involving the Russian mob , an organized crime family headed by Semyon ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) runs a restaurant front , while engaging in illicit activities from drugs to prostitution . Like Don Corleone , Semyon too has a hotheaded , impulsive yet inept son in the vein of Kirill , played by Vincent Cassel , in a role with suspect sexual orientation with his chumminess with Viggo Mortensen's Nikolai , who provides protection of sorts as their trusted underling , an enforcer type character for every crime family . Embroiled unwittingly into the crime underworld is Naomi Watts ' Anna , a midwife who delivers a baby from a dead teen , whose diary she finds and becomes incriminating evidence on Semyon's activities , as her amateurish sleuthing brings her straight into the lion's den . Thereafter the movie takes two arcs , one involving the retrieval of the diary , which provided some background story to the mysterious girl and her plight , reminiscent of movies like Lilya 4-ever and Your Name is Justine , while on the other arc , the crime syndicate stuff proper , with deadly betrayals , revenge and deceit . Who says there should be honour amongst thieves , especially when it involves blood ? While Watts ' arc and character get reduced to supporting status , what makes a winner here is Mortensen's portrayal as the mysterious man of few words . Mortensen reunites with Cronenberg from their earlier collaboration , and his character's cool , calm and measured in his responses , a stark contrast to Kirill , and is no wonder the favourite " son " of Semyon as he knows is the man with the plan . Of interest here is how tattoos also play an important role with rituals in the initiation rites into the Family , and it's not just the Yakuza who boast these body art . As one character puts it , the tattoos on your body tell your whole story , so they command a great deal of respect . Cronenberg continues the tradition of showing unflinching bloody violence , so in your face that you'll probably be numb to it all by the time the much talked about public baths scene comes rolling along . While Mortensen and Maria Bello performed bedroom gymnastics that required her to bear all , it's Mortensen's turn here to be in the buff as he engages in a no holds barred fisticuffs . A relatively short sequence , but one which proved pivotal in turning the story over its head . Some might hate this turn of events as it reeks like a copycat of the multitude of Hong Kong crime movies , and might even be seen as a cop out , but I thought it still made decent plot development , and well worth it for the final shot in the movie , which seemed so ironic . Eastern Promises is still a highly watchable movie despite , as I mentioned earlier , Cronenberg's films having more mainstream appeal now , so don't go looking out for major shock and awe . While about half the dialogue is in Russian , I can't help but to close my eyes and imagine that Mortensen is speaking Elvish , while the rest of the cast have marbles in their mouths . Fans of Mortensen will probably not want to miss this ( well , besides watching him perform in the buff ) , with him as a character sharing the same amount of intensity as his earlier role in A History of Violence .
A Nutshell Review : Lost in the Wilderness	Watching Lost in the Wilderness would have undoubtedly bring about comparisons to our very own adventurer Khoo Siew Chiow , who is the fourth person in the world to date to complete The Adventure Grand Slam , which is to conquer the highest peaks in all the 7 continents , and cross the North and South Poles . A bio-pic of sorts of Japanese adventurer Uemura Naomi , this movie traces his professional life and his exploits , while at the same time , focusing on issues which I'd bet Khoo probably had faced as well , making you wonder if these issues are universal ones in which almost every adventurer will face at one point or another during their career . Uemura is an interesting character . He's soft spoken on the outside , but inside he has this lion's courage and dogged determination to push the boundaries of physical and mental limitations . He's alone for most of his exploits , but this is more of a choice as he attempts his solo ascents and treks . Not that he's not a team player , contrary to that , he's an excellent one , subscribing to the mantra of leaving no man behind . He's the one you can count on in your team never to give up . A bad experience with an international group made him swear off joining forces , because with groups come egos and petty bickering easily erupts when ideas and opinions differ . So henceforth a solo adventurer is born , whose challenges need to get bigger to satisfy his addiction for trotting the less travelled paths . And we know just how expensive these challenges can get , given Khoo's own experiences and appeals for funding too . This movie also chronicled this difficult expect , and presented arguments which are always to surface - why are we providing public funds to fuel the dreams of a solo aim , versus providing the same amount of money for other more worthy , and more public causes ? As the complexity of the challenge increases , exorbitant amounts of money is required for the adventurer's preparation , and most importantly , logistics . Also , it doesn't always translate to success , as you can see from Khoo's personal exploits too , like the abandoned missions of climbing Everest without oxygen , or to swim across the English Channel . Do we need to provide funds to satisfy personal vanity projects , or do this projects put us on the world map , saying that we " can " too ? Then there is the plight of the family . Uemura woos his wife with aplomb , but you can see that change in character within himself - taking her for granted , and of course , being away for extended periods of time . While his wife laments in private about her married life , this is probably something that every adventurer has to look into , and I guess Khoo's wife has always maintained her support for her husband when he embarks on these quests , which often are dangerous . The love story in Lost in the Wilderness gets itself lost though , as events as told in the movie doesn't go deep into its theme , not at least until toward the end , where Umemura breaks his promise and insists on going for his final ascent . It does make one ponder whether to these guys , it's adventure first , or family commitment taking priority , and I like to warrant a guess that often , the decision is difficult . Nonetheless this movie is as easy to follow as any typical bio-pic , and director Junya Sato has managed to capture the essence of adventuring - loneliness ( at being at the top of your game ) , wit and sheer perseverance - in its " action " sequences , without the need to be repetitive , and one of the best bits are to observe his innovative ideas , pertaining to logistics ( given that there's an upper limit to personal encumbrance ) and the dealing with unseen crevices . In tribute to the one man's determination , the end credits roll off a series of his achievements .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) 15 Minutes	I had borrowed this DVD countless of times , but somehow it didn't manage to make it to the player , until tonight that is . Starring Robert De Niro and Edward Burns , 15 Minutes take on an extreme look at reality media , where rival stations would chance upon to scoop one another at short notice , for ratings , fame and what have yous , even at the expense of morality . There's an upcoming movie called Untraceable which deals on the voyeuristic nature of modern audiences , but since this is a 2001 movie , exploitative media haven't got from bad to worse , yet , or so I believe . De Niro stars as a top celebrity cop Detective Eddie Flemming , who knows how to milk the media to the force's advantage . Being in the limelight also helps in investigations and cracking cases , because everyone wants an autograph , or to shake hands with someone famous . So it definitely helps in opening doors and breaking down hostilities . And his unofficial partner in this caper is Fire Marshal Jordy Warsaw , played by Edward Burns , whose character is an intriguing one , in that his profession is under the fire department , but has powers belonging to cops as his role is mainly an investigative piece into how fires are started , and if arson is suspected . Together , they form a somewhat mentor-rookie relationship , as Eddie teaches Jordy the 101 on homicide , as they sieve through clues of an incident where a couple is found dead in an apartment , but signs point to murder rather than accidental death by fire . And for the first half of the movie , this partnership actually starts to take their roots into tried and test buddy cop ( well , technically not quite ) movies , where differences are played to strengths , culminating in an exciting ( I realize I seldom use this word nowadays ) chase down the streets of New York , ala Heat , but minus the major firepower . But the movie takes a drastic turn in the second half , as gone are the action or potential action set up , and in comes the dwelling upon issues on everyone's 15 minutes of fame , as mentioned by Andy Warhol . Sometimes you do wonder , through reports , news , basically the media , how criminals can find it so easy to become a celebrity , making those obscene amount of cash through the writing of books or the selling of movie rights . And basically , it boils down to how we as consumers , fuel this kind of supply with demand from our curiosity . And it sure isn't alien too , where the crookedness of lawyers also assist in heaps on the perversion of law , for a cut of the profits , with their tools of the trade such as defense on the plea of insanity , and the double jeopardy clause . But why stop at lawyers when we can also target studio executives and talk show producers , whose exploitative shows feed on the sensational to sell their programme and to generate high ratings . Kelsey Grammar of Frasier fame , plays one such host , whom you'll just love to hate . Look out too for Charlize Theron in a cameo scene , with a brunette bob hairdo . Interesting concepts explored and examined , with relatively interesting villains as well ( one of them an aspiring filmmaker ! ) make 15 Minutes a little more than an ordinary cop thriller . There's a key scene which I can't describe without spoiling it , but suffice to say it does bring out every ounce on tension there is to it , and such moments though were marred slightly by the ending which had a somewhat unnecessary cheesy moment . Still , this will go into my list of recommended movies , especially one that dwells on media issues .
A Nutshell Review : Reservation Road	You wonder what goes through the minds of those involved in hit and run accidents . In that split second after impact , you are presented a choice , and your life will change , one way or the other . One probably has to consider whether to stop and render assistance , and in doing so owning up to the accident , but having a chance to save a life if the circumstances allow for it . Or to hope that nobody saw you did what you did , and bolt . Negligent drivers , either through drink driving , or being distracted while on the road , probably won't elicit much sympathy , especially so from the family of the victim , and in Reservation Road , powerful drama is weaved amongst the characters on both sides of the hit and run equation . Reservation Road refers to the scene of the crime , where the Learners - dad Ethan ( Joaquin Phoenix ) , mom Grace ( Jennifer Connelly ) and daughter Emma ( Elle Fanning ) lose their son / brother in an accident , caused by a man in a baseball cap , driving an SUV . On this angle , we follow through the pain of the family who suffer a terrible loss . The dad Ethan slowly degenerates into an obsessive wreck , trying in vain to pursue the perpetrator who's out there , through his own dogged investigations when he realizes that the cops can only do what they can given extremely limited leads which yielded no progress . The mom Grace , while at first finding it hard to accept the truth - and in the initial days , the simplest of reasons to pin the guilt in , will resonate deeply - but we see how she draws strength in the hope of keeping the family spirits up . And the daughter finds ways to cope with the loss through channeling her energies into performance . On the other angle , Mark Ruffalo plays Dwight the lawyer , who's estranged from his wife Ruth ( Mira Sorvino ) and has visiting rights to their son . When the accident happens , in that split second he made the inevitable decision for self preservation , and while he may have momentarily escape from justice and the law , negative karma dictates that he will live his life being tormented by guilt from that point on , all this while trying to provide reason that he based his decision on being able to be free from jail , to continue seeing his son . Confession and owning up will see himself in the slammer , and probably losing everything . I thought this part of the story was the more interesting one . On one hand we judge that he's a coward , of not being a man in owning up to the wrong that he did . On the other , we also realize his pain and his fear - it takes a lot to own up , especially when it involves lives being taken away , and from people we remotely know , no thanks to six degrees of separation . Based on the novel by John Burnham Schwartz who also co-wrote the screenplay with director Terry George ( Hotel Rwanda ) , some might wonder if the coming together of the key characters are a tad convenient . We have father to father in a lawyer-client position , and one mother being the teacher of the other's child . Putting them together will lead to the inevitable , but it is this unravelling of the truth , that keeps us engaged to a gripping ending . Scenes that will make you seethe with rage , and probably whisper a silent curse , will be those where opportunities for confession are presented , but each time spurned . As the saying goes , a lie begets a larger lie , and it will snowball before you realize that the lie becomes to difficult to cover up . Kudos go all round to the entire cast , save for Sorvino's role which is more cameo than supporting , mainly also because the tanglement of the complicated situation doesn't affect her character directly . Ruffalo put on a commendable performance as the man wrecked by guilt , and he fleshed his character with incredible nuances we usually associate when we are fearful , and guilty . You can feel pain through Joaquin's performance of the dad looking for justice , but finds himself being unsatisfied by the system of the law , and learns that sometimes the law and justice conflict each other , and offer the layman little or no protection , unlike those such as diplomats who have powers at their disposal . Jennifer Connelly of late plays nothing but pained wives / mothers / girlfriends ( A Beautiful Mind , Hulk , Dark Water , Little Children ) , so there's nothing really new in her role her . But I would like to single out little Elle Fanning . While her role here is fairly simple , I thought she had exhibited much more screen presence and likability than her more illustrious sister Dakota , who has disappeared after her last outing in Charlotte's Web . Hopefully we get to see more of Elle taking on challenging kid / teen roles in time to come . Reservation Road is recommended for being a powerful drama with excellent an excellent cast . Usually movies like these will have the mothers bawling and the picture being a weepy drama , but here , the movie shifts its focus to the love of fathers toward their sons , and that makes it well worth a watch .
A Nutshell Review : Match Point	Written and directed by Woody Allen , it surprisingly doesn't feel like what I would have expected from an Allen film , nor did I think that I had the patience to sit through one . However , this movie had converted me to wanna watch what Allen had to say in his earlier movies , not that this movie , in my opinion , is representative of the legendary director's style . Match Point , through its trailers , looked like another Closer , with its look at one aspect of the modern spousal relationship - that of adultery and fidelity . However , Closer had a more sophisticated plot and relationship tangles amongst the chief characters , while Match Point took on a more straightforward approach . You could say it's like The Talented Mr . Ripley , with the similar focus on one man and his actions to deceive all around him . Jonathan Rhys-Meyers plays Chris Wilton , an ex-tennis professional turned coach in England . He befriends one of his students Tom Hewett ( Matthew Goode ) , and is somewhat smittened by his sister Chloe ( Emily Mortimer ) . Being aimless and at a cross junction of his life , Chloe and her wealthy family presents Chris a possible path down a ready made high flying boardroom career and a stable family . But of course , the fun and trouble comes in the form of Tom's fiancée Nola Rice , the one with the come-hither looks , played to scandalous perfection by Scarlett Johansson . It's a dilemma to men with the lack of self-control , as Chris goes all out to straddle two boats , and starts to question which is love , and which is lust . One cannot expect to take the cake , and eat it as well . What was really neat is the presentation of the dilemma in a cold , calculated manner - do you want to continue being with your wife who endears herself to you , for all the material comfort enjoyed thus far and knowing that you have a known future laid out in front of you , or would you seek to give them all up to be with someone volatile , with an uncertain future for both when you seek to choose the mistress ? This is possibly Allen's longest film to date , and it really feels that way . He takes the time to set up the entire premise , treating us to operas as the philandering Chris enjoys marital ( and economic ) bliss , while at the same time scheming to bed his mistress regularly on the side with loads of quickies . But the beauty of it is in the second act , where what exactly will go wrong in such an adulterous relationship , will . The final act , while probably fitting for a man in extreme desperation , seemed a bit too Hollywood , despite this being done in collaboration with BBCFilms . It relied too much on Luck , just as the opening sequence of the determination of a match point when the ball hits the net . It's plainly simple - either side will mean you'll either win or lose . Rhys-Meyers put on a convincing performance as the guilt-ridden , pleasure seeking Chris , with his loathing of being with his wife , and oh-so-eager puppy dog looks when being with his mistress . At least while she's still not that demanding . As I mentioned , Johansson played the sexy-come-hither chick to perfection , but somehow I felt that she lacked the ability to exude the emotional depth of a mistress who steps up her almost impossible to meet demands from a man who cannot decide , or have the strength to tell his wife of his affairs . Glenn Close she is not . So be warned that this film might seem to plod on , with scenes that you might think could be excluded to tighten up the pace . However , do pay attention to the dialogue , as it often proves rewarding , and to those who are thinking of having affairs , think twice - the trouble when you happen to get yourself attached to an emotional wreck , could be tough to deal with . Luck may not be on your side .
A Nutshell Review : Land of Plenty	This is my maiden foray into the Singapore International Film Festival ( SIFF ) , and my first review of a film featured in the SIFF . The film tells a story of Lana , who is going to LA after her mother passed away , in search of her uncle . She has been travelling the world with her missionary father , and her last place of stay had been Tel Aviv . While we are shown the glistening skyline of LA , we are soon shown the poverty zone , and how Lana feels about leaving one warzone into another , that the war against poverty is not so much different from the world she had left . Her uncle Paul , a Vietnam war veteran exposed to the infamous Agent Orange , is now a self-possessed vigilante , playing his overly zealous part in homeland security , rigging his van into a one-stop travelling security surveillance van . ( Heck , even his handphone ringtone is the national anthem ! ) He randomly tails people deemed suspicious to him , and things get interesting when a man of Arab descent is spotted by him buying boxes of chemicals ( the irony of making a dirty bomb from a cleaning agent ) and later on , being gunned down by unknown suspects . To reach out to Paul , Lana had to play along at times , to get Paul to open up to her , as their initial meeting isn't really cordial , and it is of course difficult to strike up family conversation with relatives you have hardly seen all this while . But things take a turn when Paul finally wakes up to reality , and his futile investigative effort all comes crashing down for him . While there is little drastic character development , it is the subtle character representation that is key in this film . Paul represents the " ra-ra America " , those who are bent on protecting the homeland at all costs , those who are inept in collecting facts ( yeah , there's a dumpster diving scene which rocked ) and making decisions based on faulty intelligence . Lana , on the other hand , represents the rest of the world . The compassionate world , reaching out to diversity and trying their best in understanding this difference . It is no surprise that the filmmakers showcase the different attitudes that these 2 characters exude towards a Pakistani whom they meet towards the end . Good music is peppered throughout the movie , and I always appreciate films that introduce appropriate tunes for each scene that punctuates the entire atmosphere beautifully ( Think Cameron Crowe movies ) . And one poignant line in the film stuck to me as the film begins in LA and ends in Ground Zero , NY - if we can hear the 3000 souls asking us not to use their name in vain , as an excuse to kill more people . For those in Singapore who wish to catch this film , I don't think there is a repeat screening , so you might have to catch it on discs . And by the way , the lead actress looks like a cross between Audrey Tautou and Liv Tyler - so there .
A Nutshell Review : ( SIFF ) Manderlay	Manderlay is the second of a trilogy series called " USA - Land of Opportunities " by director Lars von Trier . If you're already familiar with Dogville , then the techniques used in the sequel Manderlay will not surprise you . It's similar , using bare sets , chalk markings on the floor to denote rooms , imaginary doors with sound effects , and the jarring camera cuts , with a narration provided by John Hurt , and inter-titles as the prelude to the various chapters ( we have 8 here ) . To me , the movie hit at two different levels . The more obvious one being the story of slavery in the US plantation town of Manderlay . Grace discovers Manderlay being oblivious to the abolishment of slavery , and proceeds to free the slaves with the assistance of her father's hired guns . In one swoop , she introduced massive changes to the way of life of the slaves and their former masters , with or without their consensus to change the status quo . We examine racism , the usual perceptions and misconceptions of negros , and how perceived segregation and classification are used as control , like stereotyping them into categories of pride , chatty , and those who simply cannot be trusted . On the other level , one which I found to be more interesting , is the supposedly allegation about the US policy on Iraq . Grace is the screen Bush , who overcomes the dictator of Manderlay with the use of heavy firepower , and frees the population probably against their wishes . Sweeping changes are made , like the introduction of democracy and its tools like ballots , votes and referendums , without the deeper study if the people are ready for such a change . But like it or not , change is imposed on them . With the use of weapons as a medium of change , Grace is stuck with the responsibility of ensuring that Manderlay thrives given the disposition of its dictator , and the question of what will happen when the threat of the gun is removed , and your guard let down . There's a little romance / lust and nudity included which warranted its R21 rating here , though it's nothing erotic about it . The most notable change in the sequel is the absence of Nicole Kidman , who played protagonist Grace Margaret Mulligan in Dogville . Scheduling conflicts prevented her from reprising her role , and it went to ingénue Bryce Dallas Howard , who in my opinion , stepped into the Grace role comfortably . Not to mention too is that Bryce is simply absolutely stunning with her red hair and chic haircut , and at certain angles , do resemble a younger version of Kidman . Its ending with David Bowie's song Young Americans , with plenty of pictures of the KKK accompanying it , served as a grim reminder of how racism can rear its ugly head . Now I've got to find time and watch my Doville double DVDs ( which includes the Dogville Confessions ) , though Manderlay can stand on its own without the need for any prior knowledge of what transpired in Dogville in order to appreciate it .
A Nutshell Review : Napola - Elite für den Führer	Napola refers to elite military National-Political Schools , set up to train promising young German talents into potential future leaders for the Third Reich - Man makes History , but Napola makes the Man . Set at the peak of Hitler's Nazi regime in 1942 , this film explores the very different lives of two youths enrolled in such a school , and exposes some of the difficult training programme that these youths are put through . Friedrich Weimer graduated as a Hitler youth , and spends time juggling work with boxing . Impressing a talent scout with his boxing skills , he gets recruited into one of the Napola schools , to be trained as an athlete to bring the school glory . Coming from a poor home , he sees this as a chance to bring wealth for this family , although they disagree with his joining the Napola . Albrecht Stein is the son of the governor . What he lacked in the brawn department , he makes up with his gift for the written word , which often goes unappreciated , even with his parents . Two youths from different backgrounds bond together as good friends , as they undergo the tough regimental training the school has to offer . At times , it's like Dead Poet's Society in a WWII German military setting , where they challenge and subtly question the establishment and their methods . Even though the school is made up of a recruited pool of the privileged few , basic evils of man persists , like corruption and jealous rivalry . The different subplots and set action pieces unravel our protagonists ' characters , and we see them develop in depth . From a wide-eyed promising talent , we journey with Friedrich as he slowly comes to terms with evaluating if one should sell out one's beliefs for fame and wealth , blinding the disappointment faced in the system . Albrecht , while meek looking , held on to his ideals , especially after a sad episode in the fields , and when being forced into a corner to renounce this ideal , found untold courage to actually do what he did , at the expense of everything else - friendship , family . Which brings us to question , how many of us , if knowing what's right , will do the right thing , or take the easy way out and turn our backs towards the truth ? We are also exposed to the highly fanatical training methods of the Nazis , of showing no pity , and signs of cowardice are treasonous . Those who've undergone some form of army training will appreciate the nature of military training - from the physical exercises , punishments , and stand-by-bunks , to the bonding of bunk mates and " suffering " under the hands of sadistic superiors . It is no surprise that Napola won various awards for film , acting and direction , It's rich cinematography and haunting soundtrack brings to life Nazi Germany of 1942 , and highlighting the horrors of the training of an elitist school of soldiers and future governors , with its expected training tragedies . This is a movie with powerful themes , with an introspective look at the development of man under difficult fanatical regimes revealed in a moving drama .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Dhoom ( 2004 )	Said to be loosely based on Taxi and Point Break , I thought Dhoom ( Blast ) seemed to be a whole lot more like the original Fast and the Furious , with a gang of robbers pulling of heists and escaping in their high octane machines charged with nitrous oxide gases , only this time , the sports cars are replaced with sports bikes . But unlike FnF which had its cop infiltrate the gang , we have a supercop hot on the heels of the gang with the help of the fastest rider in Mumbai , with shades from Taxi in a way . Abhishek Bachchan plays ACP Jai Dixit the supercop , a proud man dead sure of his abilities to apprehend the crooks , though himself has no qualms about meting out violence to deal with violence . John Abraham's Kabir looks like Tom Cruise's Ethan Hunt in M : I2 with his wavy hair flowing while riding a bike at top speed , and with his merry men from the Pizza Place , throws down the gauntlet at Jai . Rounding up the testosterone picture is Uday Chopra as the top biker and mechanic Ali Akbar Fateh Khan , who reluctantly joins forces with Jai Dixit , and gets embroiled against his wishes in this cops-and-robbers chase . He prefers to chase skirts , given his lack of appeal in the ladies department , and provides the complimentary comedic moments . The female characters here , with Rimi Sen as Mrs Dixit and Esha Deol the singer , somehow become bit players , with not much room for their characters , given that it's understandably an action movie after all . And the action doesn't disappoint even if it's not exactly A-list jaw - dropping material . There's always that tinge of familiarity , but the stars pull them off with aplomb . If you were to think they're copying their counterparts in Hollywood with vehicle stunts , and that fight atop a moving trailer which looks suspiciously like Matrix Reloaded's , well , if imitation is a form of flattery , at least Dhoom managed to come off rather convincingly . For a Bollywood movie , it clocks in at a surprisingly reasonable 129 minutes , and given its fast pace , there's rarely a moment where you'll get bored . I totally enjoyed Dhoom's soundtrack , and the song and dance numbers are fast ones which is an additional plus . I never cease to be amazed by the dance choreography , and my favourite one was where Dhoom Machale song being performed on stage , complete with pyrotechnics . Dhoom lives up to its name , and it's easy to have a blast of a time on a lazy Sunday afternoon with his , even though the story's pretty straightforward and rehashed from elements seen frequently from Hollywood . For someone who enjoys song and dance routines , I think I'll be looking towards covering more Bollywood movies real soon .
A Nutshell Review : CJ7	It's been a long and almost 3 year wait for the coming of Stephen Chow's new movie CJ7 , on the heels of his international success with Shaolin Soccer and Kung Fu Hustle , both of which were adapted / parodied / copied in the other two competitive movies this holiday season in Kung Fu Dunk and Ah Long Pte Ltd . If imitation is the best form of flattery , that goes to show who's the boss and who calls the shots in the innovation and creativity departments , that there's only one force to be reckoned with in drafting comedy that appeals to the world . You might think that I'm singing praises of Chow and his works , but yes , that's the skyrocket high expectations that he had built for himself over the years with his rapid fire mo-lei-tau ( nonsensical ) comedic movies entertaining the masses pre and post 1997 Hong Kong , and now he can afford to take his time in releasing his movies once they pass through his perfectionist quality control . Sitting through CJ7 , I had initially thought that it was amongst his weaker works , but then came the final act , which while it was emotionally manipulative , I cannot deny that I both laughed and cried at the same time , which is extremely rare , and only pulled off by Chow's knack of structuring his scenes . Chow has shown his pedigree in becoming a good storyteller . If he is not already being considered one , then CJ7 is a sign of better things to come , as slowly , it can be seen that he's giving up his presence on screen , and turning his attention to behind the camera instead . Even with movies like Shaolin Soccer and Kung Fu Hustle , while he was the lead actor , he still made room for his supporting casts to shine through . This time though , he had totally taken the backseat and gave the spotlight to the child actress Xu Jiao who plays Dicky , the son ( yes you read that right ) of Chow's construction worker character Ti . Being poor , Ti works extremely hard to send his son to a premier school to receive a good education , in the hopes that he will be able to break out of the poverty circle in time to come . But in being in an elite school , Dicky becomes automatic fodder for rich school bullies , who look down on him because of his social status . Much of the movie dwells on this schoolyard politicking , and with Ti trying hard to impart good principles to his son that it becomes somewhat repetitive . In trying to pacify his son who yearns for the latest toy in town , a high-tech robotic dog called CJ1 , Ti goes back to his favourite haunt , the junkyard , and picks up a green ball outfitted with an antenna , as a replacement toy . Without his knowing of course , this ball turns out to be an alien lifeform , and Dicky soon uncovers that it has magical abilities . Christened CJ7 , much of the laughs come from CJ7 and Dicky , in the form of spoofs ranging from Mission : Impossible 2 to Asian fare like Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , and also takes a spin from Chow's previous 2 movies . But don't expect the jokes to be of the mo-lei-tau type , as there aren't that many jokes to begin with . Gone are the days of laugh-a-minute type comedy from Stephen Chow . While toilet humour is still quite staple , Chow seemed to have embraced special effects even more this time , starting with a totally animated CJ7 , which has " cute " plastered all over it , making it a delight amongst the young and the female audience . I tell you , if it's not already available , someone should make the plush toy right now and milk it for all it's worth . Most of the jokes and fun sequences were spruced up by special effects , but there were a moment or two which I felt was quite unnecessary . In most ways , CJ7 isn't really your typical outright comedy . By the end of it , I thought its dramatic moments were tugging at the heartstrings , as I mentioned earlier , and indeed this somehow represents a shift by Chow to a somewhat different territory , building up his movie with comedy being peripheral or secondary to the main plot . There are moments of fun balanced by moments which are touching , episodes of the ridiculous balanced by episodes which made you reflect . And any more which features great songs , get my vote of approval too , with Boney M's Sonny getting plenty of airplay , and I Love Chopin coming on at just the very appropriate moment . However , what is still suspect though , is Chow's ability to weave more flesh into what are essentially flower vase roles in the female characters who play opposite him as love interests . With Shaolin Soccer , Vicky Zhao was unfortunately quite pedestrian , and with Kung Fu Hustle , the scope given to Huang Shengyi was worse . Kitty Zhang continues the trend as good looking teacher Mrs Yuen , who takes pity on Dicky , but nothing more . Having seen all the Lunar New Year movie premieres for this week , I can safely say CJ7 came out tops , because it had a lot more moments in the movie that makes it family friendly entertainment , and yet imparting and giving out reminders of good values that will almost certainly rub off on the young , and the young at heart . Not at his best , but Chow delivers yet another crowd pleaser , for sure . Recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Pride and Prejudice	I'd say I must thank Heavens for bestowing upon me , a second chance to finally watch the most excellent Keira Knightley version of the timeless Jane Austen classic Pride and Prejudice . Most of you would already be acquainted with the rich story about the sweet romance amongst the wonderfully beautiful Bennet sisters , in age old England . But this movie , in my most humble opinion , tended to place focus on the love between Elizabeth Bennet ( Keira Knightley ) and Mr Darcy ( Matthew Macfadyen ) , and between Jane Bennet ( Bond girl Rosamund Pike ) and Mr Bingley ( Simon Woods ) , allowing us audiences to witness folk dances while they tease each other . And we also bear testament to the challenges of love in those days , where manners maketh a person , and prim and properness the order of the day . With gentle bows and curtsies , we learn of Elizabeth's rebellious streak to break all norms , and the lessons everyone can take home , in not judging a book by its cover . It makes you count your lucky stars ( or do we ? ) about how we approach relationships these days , although some things , like the second guessings , and the waiting games we people play , seem to continue its stickiness like glue . Class and prestige make marriages like a business alliance more than that of love , and with age , makes some like a matter of convenience . Supported by an experienced veteran cast of Donald Sutherland and Judi Dench , the lovely Keira is up for a couple of awards for her role as Elizabeth , and I'd say , give them to her . Bravo ! Her performance was most delightful , and brought to life a range of emotions that you cannot deny make this role hers . Matthew Macfadyen too holds his own opposite Ms Knightley , with his Mr Darcy so pompous , and yet so gentlemanly . Oh , I haven't read the classic ( please pardon me on admitting to this most unforgivable sin ) , but for what it's worth as a movie , it's jolly good entertainment , coupled with a fair bit of eye candy . Though I did hope that the movie did have more time to explore in depth , some of its rushed subplots . ( P . S . I know the review reads weird , but heck , after 2 hours of that accent and language , it gets to you . Ha ! And yes , I know it isn't perfect too )
A Nutshell Review : Freedom Writers	It's easy to dismiss at first glance that Freedom Writers as yet another run off the mill troubled teenage class with an inspirational teacher story where the latter whips the class into shape for graduation with some unorthodox teaching methods . In fact it is , except that it's based on accounts of real persons , and that it's full of heart . Hilary Swank plays the reel life Erin Gruwell , a newbie teacher who goes into class 203 totally wide eyed and full of zest , only to find that her students , the product of the education system's " radical " integration policy , are filled with street smart punks that the other veteran educators wouldn't give a damn about . With most of them involved in street gangs , drive by shootings , violence and such , she's determined to stay on and make a difference to their lives , and in essence , to give them an education . And it's not just education by going through the motions and mechanics of the curriculum , but real life skills and awareness in issues pertaining to their troubled lives - things like racial tolerance , harmony , and even lessons learnt from the largest gangster group in the history of mankind - the Nazis and the horrors of the Holocaust . In fact , it's the re-telling of these stories , featuring real survivors , and including the readings of select chapters in the Diary of Anne Frank , that distinguishes Freedom Writers from its genre peers , as we experience in tandem with the class , the take aways from the museum and field trips . In essence , not only are there struggles for respect within the class , there's also Erin's battle with the bureaucratic system , and the fight back against prejudice she faces from her envious , clearly more experienced , colleagues , who to them , teaching is just a job . I suppose after many years in the same role , people do get jaded once in a while . But to experience someone coming in to make real changes , and to do what is right rather than just to do a job , makes one sit up and evaluate one's own career . I thought Hilary Swank did a commendable job acting her role as the teacher who's willing to involve personal sacrifice to reach out and gain respect from her class , in order to fulfill her objective of getting their attention , and giving them a good education . And the real Erin Gruwell and her Freedom Writers , do deserve some respect in trying to change people's lives for the better . Freedom Writers clocks in just slightly over 2 hours , but it's a delight to sit through as we follow the class and teacher through 2 years of school . Its message is simple , that we often misunderstand people who are different , either through looks , skin colour , family name and background etc , and that often leads to conflicts of various sorts . The road to peace , is naturally to reach out with sincerity , and truly understand the other party . In order words , make love , not war . The pen here , is truly mightier than the sword .
A Nutshell Review : Free Zone	Directed and co-written by Amos Gitai , Free Zone is the first Israeli movie to be shot in Jordan , and was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival . Without a doubt my interest in watching the film is for the performance of the luminous Natalie Portman at her birthplace , and one which spotted a bit of controversy and ruckus with their filming near the Wailing Wall . But what is essentially my first Israeli film , I was awed by its simplicity yet powerful underlying message within . The film is bookended by the cumulative song Chad Gadya which grows on you with each passing minute , but yet watching Natalie Portman's Rebecca crying uncontrollably for more than 5 minutes , somehow just breaks your heart , and you start to wonder why so . We find out later that the American had broken off with her boyfriend Julio ( Aki Avni ) and is now sitting in a cab she boarded , without a destination to go to in a city not of her own , and begets the driver , Hanna Ben Moshe ( Hana Laszlo , in an excellent performance which was to win her the Best Actress Award at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival ) to take her anywhere . Hanna grudgingly agrees despite having a personal errant to run in Jordan , and brings her along for a ride . Like a road trip , the cinematography presents the film in 2 distinct ways , one as if you're an invisible passenger on the same journey with the ladies , ever present in the passenger seat , with point of views centered from within and around the vehicle they're in . The other view , as Rebecca puts it , is that it's " amazing to see things you read in the books " . We explore the scenery from Tel Aviv to Amman , in this road trip , and always for those ( like me ) who have yet to visit both countries , allows for a documentary styled eye-opener like a travelogue for sight and sound . Uniquely , instead of being satisfied with just showing endless roads and paths , we get compressed time with a double exposure and superimposition of the back - stories of both Rebecca and Hanna , and learn of the objective of the latter in this journey to seek someone to recover bad debts to the tune of US$30 , 000 . Being set in the Middle East also brings to mind the volatility of the security environment and peace agreements in place between the Israelis and Arabs . Issues such as those at the border depicted in the film reflects that clear and present tension that security personnel grapple with everyday , as did the radio announcements made over the impending and credible intelligence of threats . When crossed over to Jordan and meeting up with Leila ( Hiam Abbass ) , we sense a deep mistrust between the characters , even though it stemmed from the root of all evil - money . That aside , the movie did take ample time off to provide a candid observation of common folk on both sides of the border , highlighting their plight to earn a living , and the tenacity and will of villagers who rebuild their lives ordeal after ordeal . Theirs is never to give up . But I thought the payload came from the very assured direction of Gitai , with a succinct depiction of the uneasy tripartite relationship between the Arabs , Israelis and the Americans , as represented by the respective characters in their dealings with one another . Sure they bond over cigarettes , music and a common goal in their road trip back to Israel , but under this short term peaceful existence you still cannot shake off that aged old deep rooted mistrust , as it manifested itself toward the end and really got blown way out of proportion , dragging it out . I felt it mirrored the challenges for long term peace , and that comes probably only as a result of a profound , sincere and genuine understanding of cultures cutting both ways , as Leila casually remarked starting with the learning of the Arabic and Hebrew languages . And the most interesting note would be that of Rebecca's insistence to tag along Hanna and get herself embroiled in the feud between both sides , only to find herself running away when the going gets hot , either from a lack of patience , or having absolutely no clue and surrendering from trying to seek a workable peace process for all . Deceptively simple , with a powerful underlying message . And the wonderful performances by the ensemble team of actresses , made this all the more worthwhile to sit through .
A Nutshell Review : The Last Kiss	When you're in your twenties , you feel invincible . Fresh out of school , and with a world of opportunities ahead of you , the general feeling is that nothing can go wrong . At least that's how I felt . And so far , nothing drastic has knocked me off my feet , or grounded my perceived progress to a halt . That is , until you hit the big three-oh , and start wondering about a whole host of issues , like what you're going to do with your life , are you going to settle down with that someone special if he / she exists , and essentially , what the heck happened in the last 10 years which seem to just whizz by , as if the decade just passed by without any significant milestones . And the male characters in The Last Kiss , are about the same age as I am , and in this story , they take a long hard look and evaluate heir circumstances , albeit all from a relationship point of view . Adapted from a Spanish movie L'ultimo Bacio with a screenplay by Paul Haggis ( who also wrote the screenplays for Casino Royale and Flags of Our Fathers now out in theatres ) , The Last Kiss stars Zach Braff as Michael , our guy who's stuck at the crossroads of his life . Everything's fine and dandy , great job , hybrid car , and living in with his pregnant girlfriend Jenna ( Jacinda Barrett ) . However , that contemplation of life , of what's next , and his disbelief about marriage , has forced him to seriously think about the future . He's unsure , and in his vulnerable state , gets very tempted by a younger , beautiful girl , Kim ( Rachel Bilson ) when she throws herself at him . Yes , Rachel Bilson from TV's OC has followed in the footsteps of fellow OC hot babe Mischa Barton , playing yet another sweet nubile temptation in their big screen debut ( Barton did her tour in The Oh in Ohio ) . As the seductress , her character totally loses herself in the company of Michael , and feminists in the audience would roll their eyes and find it hard pressed to find a valid reason to fall for that cad Michael , who is definitely tempted and should have stuck to his guns . Although the spotlight is definitely centered on this story arc , there are a few others which focus on Michael's friends , all hitting their 30s , and each facing dilemmas in their own right . Chris ( Casey Affleck ) is not getting along with his wife , who's high strung from taking care of their kid , Izzy ( Michael Weston ) cannot get over his ex girlfriend , and is actually an obsessive wuss , upset at her ability to move on so easily , and Eric Christian Olsen as Kenny the hipster player who's totally non-committal . Interactions between the guys are limited though , and each potential short story arc brings forth potential unexplored in full . But perhaps we have to leave it to the older folk to shed some light in this movie . Blythe Danner and Tom Wilkinson somehow light up the screen with their chemistry , as two elderly married couple who are at odds with each other , because of the lack of some tender loving affection showered upon the other . Harold Ramis makes a surprise appearance , and he's almost ballooned to twice the size since his lean Ghostbusters days . I'd actually thought I could easily identify with the broad issues faced by the host of characters here , but given it's focus just on relationships , it was a little below expectations . Nonetheless , it's one movie whose themes do set you thinking , especially about the touchy issue on fidelity ( hence , who's the recipient of your very last kiss ? ) , and even then it doesn't end by making any bold statements , but it chose to sit on the fence .
A Nutshell Review : Glastonbury	Glastonbury is seriously for fans only . One of Britain's best known music festival , if you don't dig the type of music played , or if you don't enjoy unleashing the party animal inside of you , then steer clear of this movie . Otherwise , you're in for one hell of a ride , presented in a very different way . The screening I was in obviously didn't have many fans . I think I'm the only one head bobbing and leg tapping throughout the movie , and I couldn't do more because of the restrictive overrated Picturehouse seats . The usual documentary will embark you on a journey from beginning to end , through the eyes of a regular festival goer . Alternatively , it might take on the theme from a festival organizer's point of view , giving you the low downs on the happenings to bring the festival to life . The other strategy will be to showcase the incredible performers lined up for the festival year in year out , and speak of their experiences in igniting the crowd to a dance fervour . But under the hands of director Julien Temple , Glastonbury becomes a mixed bag , a rojak of sorts combining the different narrative presentations possible , and it takes a while to get used to . You see plenty of festival goers , but the focus is on none . There are interviews galore , but in a rather haphazard manner . It's sex , drugs and rock and roll , and the movie neither glamourizes , nor condones vice . You have stoned people talking to the camera , and you have tired revellers sleeping and dancing naked . You don't get bombarded with facts and figures about the festival , but talks with the organizers become rather topical instead , especially the later part about the erection of a security fence . However , it's more than just the people , it's also about the music . While the visuals are beautifully combined with the aural , you don't get to hear much of the pieces performed as a whole . What you get instead is like a sampling of tracks , teasing you with classics like David Bowie ( Heroes ) to contemporaries like Brett Anderson ( Common People ) , from alternative punk group Prodigy ( Firestarter ) , to electronica kings Chemical Brothers ( Hey Boy Hey Girl ) . Hey , if it features Massive Attack ( Karmacoma ) , I'm already sold ! It's a little less than conventional in its presentation by combining a series of clips from various festival years , in non chronological order . You can make out certain eras like the free loving 60s and the early years with the grainy quality of the picture , and distinguish the present day slicker shows in its trademarked pyramid stage . Just like the festival , you'll never know what you're gonna get at each turn , be it heavy downpour or mud baths , and that's how the narrative structure of Glastonbury takes . With ZoukOut around the corner , watching Glastonbury has triggered the party animal inside me , and I'm seriously considering going for this year's beach party at Siloso Beach Sentosa . Any fellow party goers game to join me ?
A Nutshell Review : Sex Drive	Despite what I would deem as a glut as far as teenage sex comedies are concerned , it's easy to have seen one to have seen them all , but Sex Drive still managed to arrest some attention from start to end because the screenplay by John Morris and director Sean Anders , based on the book " All The Way " by Andy Behrens , has plenty of genuinely funny moments , delivered by an excellent fresh faced cast supported by unlikely veterans hamming it up . Like all road trip related movies , from Harold and Kumar , to Road and Euro Trips , amongst a lot more others , there's always your virginal protagonist who is luckless in getting laid , and the premise has it all set up for him to do so en route to his deflowering destination . And sticking to formula , it dictates that you must have a wise-cracking sidekick who knows all , and / or done it all . If American Pie has its Stifler , then Sex Drive's equivalent would be the unlikely and pudgy Lance ( Clark Duke ) as his trash-talking mad humping equivalent , goading his best friend virgin Ian ( Josh Zukerman ) on to make a half-cross country trip to meet the internet girl of his dreams Ms Tasty ( mm mmm , Katrina Bowden ) , who offered to go all the way should he arrive in his ( brother's actually ) sweet GTO . So on the guise of visiting his ailing grandmother , Ian brings along Lance ( who's in on the plan ) , as well as best female friend Felicia ( Amanda Crew ) who along the way discovers that this road trip isn't exactly as innocent as it seems . And of course it plays to the usual notion that the one you seek is always forever just by your side and not halfway across the world . It's the same ol ' message , but delivered in a totally hilarious package . The strength of the story doesn't like on any marquee name making facial fools of themselves , but having to inject some wonderfully ( and sometimes obscene ) moments that catch you offguard , sometimes like a frat boy joke , but definitely laugh out loud . As you know with comedies these days , they usually taper off toward the end , or suddenly decide to go all mushy and dramatic . Here , the filmmakers saved the best bits for last , where everything converged together in one madcap finale , and doesn't fizzle out until the very last minute . And that means right up until the very last scene after the end credits roll . Two characters here stand out , and they're not leading roles though . The first would be a very buffed up James Marsden as Ian's brother Rex , who owns the GTO and exploits every opportunity to ridicule his kid brother . The second role , and a scene stealing one at that , belonged to Seth Green's Ezekiel , a sarcastic Amish fella who has the very best lines , and delivered so succinctly , if there was an award for best comedic performance , I'll give it to him in this role , hands down . Political correctness gets thrown out the window , and there are plenty of gaudy jokes involving various body parts . So if this is not your cup of tea , the recommendation would be to skip it as you're likely to frown more often than laugh . Naturally there are some loopholes and continuity errors that were obvious , but don't let those get to you . If you're really up for some good dose of laughing medicine to chase those blues away , then Sex Drive would be that perfect silver bullet .
A Nutshell Review : Muallaf	Yasmin Ahmad's Muallaf finally hits the screens , and it scores a number of firsts from her filmography thus far . For starters , it's a departure from the Orked storyline which the last three ( or four if you count Rabun ) had centered around , and quite amazingly , it's predominantly in the English language . Save for the return of Sharifah Amani in one of the lead roles , and supporting roles with Tan Mei Ling and even Ho Yuhang , we see new faces here , with leads Brian Yap and Sharifah Amani's real sister Sharifah Aleysha also in this film as her on screen one . But first let's get the " controversies " out of the way . I guess by now the issue of Sharifah Amani's hair would have died down , and frankly this was generally lost in the audience here , except of course for its impact and relevance to the story . The other one would be its title which may allude to something about religious conversion , but the movie is about anything but that , even though some may find it near impossible not to dwell upon the issue of religion that were kept at arms length here , taking into account the title and connotations to its meaning . As I gradually find richness in the Chinese language ( I confess I disliked it as a subject in school ) I thought the Chinese title of ? ? ? ? , which literally translates to a " change of heart " was a more accurate depiction of what the story would be about . As with the themes of Yasmin's films , it's about the human condition and humanity , and the Family never being far behind . With Sepet , we had Orked's and Jason's family being in the thick of the action , and this continues into Gubra alongside the stories of the families in the muezzin's kampung . With Mukhsin , the neighbour's and the titular character's broken home got the spotlight , and a sneak preview of Talentime and synopsis of Wasurenagusa reaffirm that Family continues to play an important part in " a yasmin ahmad film " . In Muallaf , the sisters Rohani ( Sharifah Amani ) and Rohana ( Sharifah Aleysha ) epitomizes forgiveness and are a nuclear family of sorts . They're left to their own devices after escaping from their father ( played by Dato ' Razali Rahim ) and their stepmother ( singer Ning Baizurah with big hair ) , and live in a big haunted house by the grace of their deceased mother's friend . They meet Brian ( Brian Yap ) a schoolteacher who has his own traumatizing skeletons in his closet and what he perceives were mind games by his mom in Penang ( played by Tan Mei Ling ) , and through his attraction to the peaceful loving ways of the sisters , form a friendship with them . But of course there are moments which require some getting used to . The girls , in the director's own words , are weird , especially when Rohana begins to spout numbers and phrases , which to the character's own admission , she doesn't know what they actually mean and isn't aware that she gets on other people's nerves . So to some , the dialogue may be heavy or distant , unreal even , but it might just provide that spark of interest to go refer to some of the verses and quoted numbers , ranging from the Quran to the Bible and the Tao Te Ching , amongst others , to find out what they really mean , and in context whether they fit the scene . Muallaf obviously centers on Brian , and Yasmin crafted quite a character here , with his stingy and calculative ways dictating how he leads life , and in summary the Chinese title more or less symbolizes the change that this person will undergo . Not religious of course ( though some may disagree ) , but more significantly , changes to his attitude . Something which I believe most of us would have experienced from time to time , and even I am guilty of it , the treatment to our folks and the callousness in brushing them aside because we think they're naggy and getting in the way . Unlike the films in the Orked Trilogy , I felt this one had a more uplifting finale full of hope . Those who have seen those films will likely understand what I mean . Instead of an ending that will move you to tears ( at least I felt that way ) , like that in Sepet , Gubra ( minus the end coda ) , and Mukhsin even , Muallaf concluded on a rather positive note that made me break out in a smile and cheer the protagonist on . Despite of course some scenes being a little choppy , and having things left open ended , and the sisters being devoid of screen time and stuck to quick resolutions instead . It does seem like a serious film if not for Yasmin's signature sense of humour , and even then the laugh-out-loud moments got toned down a little in the limited moments where funny scenes do get injected . Look out too for Yeo Yann Yann as Cindy the bar girl , and Ho Yuhang as a private investigator continuing a dog joke , and in fact , I thought that Yuhang has some of the more colourful characters in Yasmin's film , from the neighbour in Rabun , to the repo - man in Mukhsin . For those who have the preconceived notion that Yasmin's films only revolves around the Orked character , well this film has broken that mold , and looking at the lineup of her films including this one , they may be set in different countries , or may even feature some of her regular actors , but one thing's for sure - they come from the same storyteller's heart , with stories that capture the essence of human issues that you and I see , hear or probably experience personally from time to time , because that's this thing called life . Go watch Muallaf , need I say more ?
A Nutshell Review : The Pursuit of Happiness	Will Smith has come a long way since his Fresh Prince of Bel Air days . Starring in an average of 1 movie per year , ranging from action to serious drama , it's without a doubt that he's one of the world's most bankable stars , and turns in an Oscar nominated performance for his role as Chris Gardner in The Pursuit of Happiness , inspired by the events of the real Chris Gardner's life . Smith's role was wonderfully multi-faceted , as the loving father who's trying his very best to bring home the bacon , for his family , and to pay the bills . A sales person whose product is a bone density contraption , he faces dark days when sales targets are consistently missed , and the bills start to mount . Soon enough his family structure breaks down , as he goes in search for financial independence against incredible odds , in the quest to lift himself and his son from the doldrums of life . It's a basic rags to riches story , which made the grade based on Smith's performance . With steely grit , determination , and the refusal to back down , it's inspirational in a way , though at times clichéd , with reminders not to let others put you down just because they can't themselves . You feel down when the characters face their challenges , and celebrate when they gain little triumphs . For anyone who had faced financial hardships one way or another , it's easy to identify with elements presented , like how difficult it is to reclaim bad debts , and the feeling of dread when you have but a few dollars in your wallet . Told as a narration introduced by titles corresponding to the events presented , there were some elements that brought back some memories of my internship days as well , especially the scene where Gardner had to make cold calls . It's not easy , even though you're prepared with some sort of script , you have to be on your toes to negotiate for a meeting to present something substantial , and the challenge is to snag that meeting . Of course , more often than not , it's great training to build up a thick skin , as you'll face with more rejections , some of which are as soon as you introduce yourself . A little street smart slyness is the order of the day , and Gardner in the movie managed to kill multiple birds in one stone , constantly probing for opportunities . The art direction was superb , capturing the 80s setting perfectly , with little clues dropped every now and then to remind you that it's the 80s - the ad for Robert DeNiro's Raging Bull , Ronald Reagan as President , and the fashion of the days . While Thandie Newton co-stars as Gardner's wife Linda , a role which allowed her to contribute a lot more than her recent outing in Norbit , the real co-star is actually Jaden Smith , who plays Gardner's son Christopher . In fact , if you thought the father-son chemistry he shared with Will Smith was natural , it is , because Jaden is actually Will's son , so it's no surprise how comfortable they look together on screen . For an inspirational movie and as much one on father and son relationships , of the sacrifices fathers make , it's balanced in both its lighthearted and melancholic moments , A definite must watch for fans of Will Smith , and for those curious to check out his Oscar nominated performance before the awards ceremony this weekend . My bet is if Forest Whitaker's Idi Amin role in The Last King of Scotland is not competing in the same year , then Will Smith would have had a better chance .
A Nutshell Review : 10 Promises to My Dog	You probably cannot count just how many doggie movies are out there , with its fair share coming out of Japan . Neither can I , and ever since Hachiko I thought none could stand up to the loyalty of that dog , but I guess I was wrong . You think you know the usual drill when it comes to stories about man's best friend , but I guess one can always count on the Japanese to weave a story based on much melodrama that somehow works , no matter if it at first glance might seem to be familiar . Like how the dog remains unflinchingly loyal to its owner , good or bad in its owner's treatment of it . Or how it can always be relied on to provide that listening ear , even though they obviously don't speak our language , or best of all , how as a puppy the camera always capture their best angle to make you wish you could go home to one who that will always wag its tail and playfully pounce on you as a greeting , as if you're the best person in the world that stepped through the door . The 10 promises referred to here isn't exactly 10 of the best that one would actually commit to the pet , but rather , a pact of understanding from both parties that build on trust . And that turns out to be key to the story , as it extends not only between animals and man , but across relationships that both parties will forge with others and fellow species as well . In fact , some of these serve as universal reminders , and I suppose young kids who are brought to see this G-rated film , will probably come to understand that it takes a lot of responsibility to take care of a pet , especially when one's priorities in life tend to change as one grows up within the average lifespan of , in this case , a dog . Told over 10 years , the film stars Mayuko Fukuda and Lena Tanaka as the character of Akari , a young girl who seem to suffer from setback after setback ranging from family to relationship issues , despite her sunshine cheery demeanour . And the best parts in the movie pertain to the carefully crafted story about family , about being there for your loved ones , and making precious moments count . And with the 10 promises , we will journey with Akari to see if she can commit to the pact successfully , or not . But it's not just a story about a girl and her dog , and there's where this movie shines in being different from the usual run off the mill stories . There's a small sub plot involving Akari's golden retriever Socks in its ability to become a therapy dog , both for herself , and good friend Hoshi ( Ryo Kase ) . And it chief strength was in how it weaved a very nice , touching story about family , of being there every moment that you can , and making such moment matter . Just like how Akari's father Saito ( Etushi Toyokawa , in a role that perhaps many can identify with ) places work in a higher priority than family in order to put bread on the table , but realizes that work just isn't everything as time will just pass you by . And it served as an interesting parallel when Akari loathes her father's non-presence , but slowly we see her succumbing to these same attitudes as well , much to the disappointment of , well , everyone else . Despite a romantic angle being ploughed into the movie at its midpoint on , its family one still stood its ground and delivered the melodramatic payload when it mattered , to tug at your heartstrings during the inevitable finale . And while listening to the Japanese cast bravely sing their way through Time After Time , I'd figured that while it fit the movie nicely with the message it wanted to bring across , perhaps this version of the song will sooth calm nerves : Highly recommended if you have never seen a movie about man and his best friend , or if the last one you've watched was a few years ago . Otherwise you should know what to expect when it goes into dramatic overdrive .
A Nutshell Review : The Tale of Despereaux	Never did I think that The Tale of Despereaux would have all it takes to be a fairy tale in the spirit of Stardust , and I had actually found myself enjoying this tale from once upon a time , which provided entertainment to children , and not leave the adults in the lurch thanks to its rather mature story that spread out like a hydra thanks to the myriad of colourful characters inhabiting its kingdom of Dor , where citizens enjoy the yearly ritual of witnessing and subsequently tasting the soup of the year created . There's a difference between a mouse and a rat , as far as likability and the cuteness factor goes . And central to the story are a world-weary rat Roscuro ( voiced by Dustin Hoffman ) who lives aboard a ship and finds himself grounded in part due to his love for good food , and that of an innocent mouse with a big heart , the titular character Despereaux ( Matthew Broderick ) , who is smaller in size than the average mouse , but born with big Dumbo like ears which he uses to great effect . Roscuro's presence in the kingdom happens to be the root cause of the king having to ban soup and outlaw the presence of rats in his kingdom , and disappears for a while in the middle section of the story , leaving room for Despereaux to step up to the central role . We learn that Despereaux is no ordinary mouse , not only in physical terms , but in character , because he knows no fear and very much unlike the other mice who must learn to be meek and cower as an innate response to danger . For his steadfastness in holding true to his principles , he finds himself banished as punishment for speaking to Princess Pea ( Emma Watson ) , and so paves way for the little one to exhibit the values of honour , chivalry , loyalty and courage , stuff in which he found appealing from a story book that he read , with which he imagines himself to be a mouseketeer / knight . What made this movie work , are the many threads and characters in seemingly disparate narrative arcs , where you can't help but to anticipate how they would all come together . Each character created was quite balanced in having grey area to tread , so that the theme of forgiveness could ring through . And having a star studded cast to voice them worked wonders too , such as Tracey Ullman , Kevin Kline , William H . Macy , Ciaran Hinds ( who is also in this week's Race to Witch Mountain ) , Frank Langella , Christopher Llyod and Sigourney Weaver as the narrator , which quite interestingly , doesn't always narrate verbatim to what's shown on screen . Each character has their own motivation put out clearly , and while some , like the key characters , have their work cut out for them , you can rely on the support cast to liven up things a little and provide some comic relief . I guess the animation studios in the west have already reached a plateau in terms of the technical know-how in putting out a photo-realistic animated film these days . You can imagine the texture of the animal's fur , as well as the smell of the dark and stank underground city of Rat Town , or the perfumed sweetness that comes with a princess ' room . It goes to show that the benchmark has been raised permanently , and it will take many years and larger budgets if local animated film studios ( that have given us cringeworthy titles to date , with poor stories and poor graphics ) are thinking of reaching the same heights . Not wanting to put them down , but they have to understand that a strong story is key ( and doesn't mean you tweak it to suit the flavour of what you think will sell ) in order for the animation to do its part ( e . g . Barnyard ? excellent CG art , but poor story = box office disaster ) . The Tale of Despereaux again is family friendly fare save for one scene which I thought might be pushing the envelope a bit ( for a children's G-rated film that is ) . Other than that , for those looking for a more adult fairy tale , give this mouse a chance , and in all honesty , this little guy got more spunk than Ratatouille . Recommended !
A Nutshell Review : The Matrimony	I usually get perturbed when I watch movies with Hong Kong actors , because our Speak Mandarin campaign here dictates that these movies if in Cantonese have to be dubbed into Mandarin . Add to the fact that most times , the audio and lip movements on screen rarely sync , besides the frequent use someone with a poor voice quality that results in the stars coming across with squeaky or irritating voices . No such situation in this Chinese horror movie production because the cast are speaking in Mandarin , and this somehow earns some brownie points . The Matrimony , like the name implies , focuses a lot more on relationships and love , with the supernatural angle adding that extra dimension to complicate matters . It is not a horror movie per se , but a tragic love story that has its characters perpetually stuck with their various issues . Leon Lai stars as cinematographer Shen Junchu , a man who can't forget his true love , living in a state of denial and guilt . Fan Bingbing plays Xu Manli , that love of his who now belongs to the netherworld , but still trying her best to make contact , and rounding up the main cast is Rene Liu as Sansan , the present wife of Jinchu , stuck in a loveless unconsummated marriage , looking too for ways to reach out to him . While there are moments initially where the usual complimentary attempts at scaring the audience are put through the motions , like creaky doors , quick edits , camera pans and sudden appearances , these tactics are soon abandoned when the story decided to contrast that affections of these two women have for their man . It's about unattainability , and the methods employed to try and bridge that gap . To Manli , it is obvious that her appearance and touch will harm Junchu , and for Sansan , it's clear that nursing that crush you have without that emotional connection made both ways , is futile . So a pact between them is made , at first seemingly to benefit Junchu , but later revealed to be much more than meets the eye . There's nothing fancy to the story as it plays out rather ordinarily , but to its credit it stays coherent , and brings about the storytelling days of old . There isn't any twist save for what I deem as cop-out wrapper scenes which , if you ignore them being used as bookends , actually makes for a refreshing experience given that horror movies these days are always so clichéd with the unexpected ( and usually disappointing ) ending . The narrative rarely gets over the top or too full of itself , and thus the beauty in its simplicity . But there is nothing simple in terms of production values . The film sets are lush and gorgeous , and no effort made to try and match the authenticity of yesteryears , making it a beautiful film to look at . The only thorn that marred the visual spectacle , was a crucial scene , which I thought could have either be done away with , or done conventionally . Instead , it decided to use visual effects , and it was badly done and cheesy . Not that the quality of the effects were limited , as later scenes were done to perfection , but I guess for this particular one , some quality control was abandoned . The movie started off rather slow but thankfully picked up the pace as it moved along , and you won't feel bored as your eyes will be admiring almost everything on set in the scene . I deem Rene Liu as having the most to do here , as surprisingly , much of the story revolves around her character Sansan , also in having the richest backstory created amongst the three , thus attempting to challenge her acting range . Leon Lai was stoned for most parts , while Fan Bingbing was largely scheming , given the age old superstition that any spirit clad in red is the most vicious . Given Valentine's Day just around the corner , I'd probably stick my neck out to say that this makes a decent date movie too , despite the secondary subject of spirits and ghostly possession . Just remember not to play with fire , that rarely is there a free lunch , especially when the dealmaker isn't from this part of existence .
A Nutshell Review : Resident Evil : Extinction	With Extinction , the Resident Evil franchise perhaps have made its mark as the most enduring computer game turned movie to date . Most of such movies usually make for cheesy lazy weekend entertainment , little in depth but filled with plenty of set action pieces , which for the most parts are nothing groundbreaking . But what this franchise has to credit for its longevity , is Milla Jovovich . OK , so she has made mostly mediocre movies of late ( I sense some fanboys will get me for this , but let me put it straight , I'm a fan of hers too ) , especially with the lacklustre Ultraviolet , and the really showy . 45 . If not best remembered for her role as Leeloo in Luc Besson's The Fifth Element ( still credited in my books as the ONLY film I watched with having zero prior knowledge on anything about it ) , then it'll be for her role as Alice , the zombie butt kicking superbeing whose blood holds the key to a reversal of the effects of the T-virus engineered by the evil Umbrella Corporation . The premise here is similar to that of 28 Days / Weeks Later , where the virus is now out of control , and mutates humans into flesh chomping zombies , spreading mayhem worldwide . Human survivors are few and far between , and where we left off from Apocalypse , Alice is now travelling the world alone , seeking refuge and peace , while evading Umbrella's gunsights . It presumably takes place a significant amount of time after the predecessor , given that Jill Valentine ( Sienna Guillory ) doesn't return for this , keeping the doors open for either an unlikely spin off , or a revisit into the gap in timeline should Guillory sign on the dotted line . But I guess as Juvovich fans , we don't really care , do we ? So long as we get to see our heroine in action , we're satisfied , whether she's causing misery to her opponents from her twin handguns , double Kukri knives or just her incredibly toned limbs , we're rooting for her all the way , dressed in garb personally designed by Juvovich herself , which provides for both form and functionality . The trend of casting pretty women to pair with her continues , with the first movie having Michelle Rodriguez , the second with Guillory , and now , Heroes ' Ali Larter and Spencer Locke join the fray . However , they are relegated to more pedestrian roles as compared to previous partners , so don't be expecting much from them , especially for fans of Larter . The story can be no more simpler than Alice serving as a messiah for a small convoy of survivors headed by Larter's Claire , delivering them a message to journey to the promised land in Alaska . But of course the road to Peace and No Infection is plagued by challenges which culminates in a big battle in Las Vegas , where the trailers have teased with the entire city being semi-buried in sand . And like a video game , all levels will lead to their respective Big Boss to do battle with , and Extinction doesn't evade that formula too . Watching Alice grow in power , provides a lot of kick in some of the cool things she can do , enhanced with special effects of course . Don't expect the franchise to slam the door of opportunity shut on itself . By the look of things , we might even see a fourth movie coming up in perhaps two or three years time ( the interval between the movies thus far ) . Expect plenty of blood and gore as our heroes cut through ugly zombies like hot knife through butter , and none other does it more balletic and graceful than Milla Juvovich . You go , girl !
A Nutshell Review : Encounters at the End of the World	Trust Werner Herzog to come up with an engaging documentary such as this , where he was on the invite of the National Science Foundation to visit the community of scientists at McMurdo Station over at the Antarctica , and of course , couldn't pass up not documenting his exploration of the ice continent , which was showcased by The Discovery Channel . But this is by no means something that was made for television , being shot in High Definition which brought out the glorious visuals , aesthetically looking or otherwise , for all and sundry to enjoy . But this is not just penguins and icebergs , or interviews that go on about highly scientific knowledge given the background of his interview subjects . Instead , it took a very humanistic look at life at the Station , as well as these individuals as persons , their dreams and experiences . And his subjects , or at least those that make it to the film , are nothing short of fascinating , and seems to all have a few things in common , that is the drive to want to venture off the well trodden path , and being " professional dreamers " in their own right . And it's not just presenting only the positive side of things , or a promotional video for the Station , which Herzog , who narrated this feature , had mentioned he would not do . There's a fair balance of viewpoints , some which are left to an audience to make the judgement call , while others you can hear his outright disapproval , sometimes laced with quick wit and sarcasm . While the scientists are there for research to make the world a better place , and to understand this last frontier on the globe , you can't help but notice the construction landscape the colony has created , as if it is ingrained in man to ravage the land he resides in , and alter Nature for the provision of some ridiculous creature comforts . I suppose one still cannot get away from not covering something about the penguins when in the Antarctica . Herzog goes one step further to cover the different camps at the continent , for the audience to grasp the extent of scientific research and exploration , at the same time eliciting candid views about life in isolation , and listen in to sights and sounds unheard of , with every interview subject each possessing very unique and interesting stories to tell . There are some survival tips here that prove to be valuable , not that I'll have a chance to visit the continent , but are common sense stuff that you're likely to appreciate from .
A Nutshell Review : Black Snake Moan	This movie oozes sexiness , attitude and wacky fun , with loads of quirkiness all round . With stars Justin Timberlake , Christina Ricci and Samuel L Jackson , Black Snake Moan is a movie with some of the more unconventional characters put on screen , and with Jackson on board , you can be sure that he brings forth some of that mo-fo traits that features prominently in his movies . Ricci plays Rae , the village bicycle who is ridden by almost everyone in town . And I really mean almost everyone . We'll find out the reason how this condition was inflicted , but in the meantime , she's more than eager to shed her clothes to get her sexual fix , or doesn't bat an eyelid to prostitute herself to feed her drug addiction . With her white trash reputation , only her love for Ronnie ( Timberlake ) is true , but that doesn't stop her from cheating on him behind his back . Jackson's Lazarus has just emerged from a broken marriage , the victim of being cheated upon . A God-fearing man , I would've half expected he start to recite some verses in the Bible while blowing someone's brains off ( oh wait , that's the other movie ) . But nonetheless here's Jackson in his element , and the story gets hastened when he finds Rae near his home , half naked and battered . Not knowing what else to do , and taking it as a signal from God , he takes it upon himself to nurse Rae back to health , and through religion and friendship , tries to exorcise those evil demons within her . And he does so by firstly , chaining her up . While there are suggestive shades of S & M here , there's nothing kinky about it , so don't expect Jackson and Ricci steaming up the screens . Much against her wishes to have her movements restricted , Lazarus " will not be moved ! " in inflicting cold-turkey styled treatments on Rae , and most of the fun comes in when they go head to head in a battle of wills . But as expected , a deep friendship ensues , and Lazarus becomes a surrogate father of sorts , which brings us to other highly anticipated moments in the movie , when Jackson sings the blues ! Armed with his guitar , perhaps those segments are the most entertaining of the lot , when he goes into full swing and performs with cool , slick attitude to boot . I haven't heard of any blues tunes with profanity , and only Samuel L . Jackson does it best when on form ! And what of Timberlake you say ? He plays the lovelorn boy who volunteers for the army , and for the most parts is not on screen . Not surprising too is that he doesn't sing anything ( as per his role in Shrek 3 ) , and his character is actually a wussy . This movie definitely played on Ricci and Jackson's strengths and chemistry , which they have delivered most excellently . Sex , violence , and Samuel L Jackson . Now aren't those reasons enough to watch Black Snake Moan ? It doesn't take itself too seriously , so as long as you're not expecting some Oscar worthy material , you're in for a rip-roaring heckuva ride .
A Nutshell Review : The Assassination of Richard Nixon	What will make a man snap , go out of control , and want to kill the President , by flying an airplane right into the White House ? While the setting of this tale is pre-911 , watching it in a post-911 era does send some unnerving chills down your spine . Life is bad for Sam Bicke . His American Dream is falling apart , starting with his family . He is separated from his wife , and she has custody of their 3 children . She has obviously moved on , and is unhappy whenever Sam visits her and the children , and even more angry when he sees her at her workplace . His moral values clashes with company culture - as a salesman he is expected to make the occasional white lie to sell products . But he subscribes to the moral belief that one should tell the truth , even in business . Needless to say , his quota is always at the bottom rung , and gets chided and belittled by fellow colleagues and his boss . He tries to start his own business , but is stuck with insane bureaucracy and suspected racism . At one stage he steals from his brother , who's also in the same line of business ( rubber tyres ) , and that plunged their blood relations even further down the gutter . Heck , even his political ideology he identifies with the Black Panthers also turn inconsequential , as the group gets clamped down . Frustrated by the current state of his being , he finally puts the blame on the " system " , as we see Richard Nixon on TV screens , giving his political speeches in his scandal laden presidency . Sam finally decides to take matters into his own hand to not just be a grain of sand on the beach , and this leads to an explosive ending where the pace of the film quickens . Sean Penn is absolutely brilliant , and is able to carry the entire weight of this film on his own shoulders . Playing a man with many facades and moods , he brings Sam Bicke to life with ease with his repertoire of acting skills . His co-stars put up commendable performances , albeit short ones . ( Can't get enough of Don Cheadle after his excellent Hotel Rwanda ) . I checked out this show in preparation of his other film The Interpreter , with yet another Australian actress ( His 21 Grams co-star Naomi Watts in this one , and Nicole Kidman in the other . . . lucky fella ! ) , so if you want to watch Sean showcase his acting ability in a recent non-mainstream film , you can consider this .
A Nutshell Review : Sarkar Raj	" To kill is a crime , but to kill at the right time is politics . " Sarkar Raj is the sequel to the 2005 movie Sarkar by Ram Gopal Varma , which is said to be the Indian equivalent of The Godfather starring megastar Amitabh Bachchan in the titular role where a gangster gets elected to political power . You don't really need to watch Sarkar in order to enjoy Sarkar Raj , as characters get introduced fairly quickly , and their motivations spelt out clearly on the surface . Necessary links to the original were presented in flashbacks , while the story here takes off with new challenges that present themselves to the characters whom you can get chummy with in a jiffy . There were a few things I was amazed with regarding the movie . For starters , to a relative Bollywood newbie like myself , this movie will debunk all notions that Indian movies have to come default with song and dance . There is absolutely no forced musical sequences in the movie , perhaps only the the Govindar theme song which gets repeated play . Next , the richness of colours I am used to when watching movies from the Indian continent gets replaced by a very strained palette , with quite a gritty look that aligns itself with its subject matter . And the shaky camera technique invades the industry too , though there was adequate contrast provided in its camera styles to reflect the innate characteristics of the leads - for a seasoned gangster who has mellowed and found calm , the camera is measured and still to reflect the old ginger's state of mind , whereas when following his heir apparent , it's shaky-cam for the most parts to accentuate his cock-sure impatient nature beneath a facade of confidence . Going by the loud chuckles of a predominantly Indian audience I was with , there were certainly some nuances that went unappreciated by myself because my lack of knowledge was likely to have not allowed me into some of those jokes , though there were times I could identify with the story's slight mocking of the state of Indian politics , and with the lack of clear direction amongst the chief villains as well , which played for stifled laughs . Sarkar Raj opens with Aishwarya Rai's Anita Rajan , the daughter of an industrialist in England who wishes to build a power plant in Subhash Nagare's ( Amitabh Bachchan ) controlled state . Celebrating his birthday , Subhash takes opportunity to signal that his son Shankar Nagare ( played by real life son Abhishek Bachchan ) has arrived on the big political arena , and is likely to take a more active role in decision making . This shows when he quietly backs and puts faith in his son's pursuit in having the power plant located in their territory , despite having to displace 40 , 000 people in the short term . Like all politicians with good intent , they're looking toward the long term goals of providing basic electrical infrastructure to their people , but as with all things , there are bound to be opposition to decisions by the incumbent . And that's just the tip of the iceberg , as in slightly more than 2 hours , we're bombarded with political battles made with strategic moves akin to a game of chess , only that the players involved are more than two across a wooden board . There are outright opponents in your face , but the deadlier ones are always those who remain in the shadows , and are difficult to pin down . Gentlemanly campaigning does not suffice , as tricks from the illegitimate book of tactics get drawn out , to consequences that will spiral everyone down the road of violence begetting more violence . While Amitabh clearly is the head of the household here , just when you thought he had taken a backseat in his role in the sequel , he jumps right back into the driving seat with a vengeance , and it's always interesting to witness the charismatic actor in action . Son Abhishek holds his own against his father's imposing figure , and the both of them as on - screen father-son brings about a sense of realism and naturalness to their characters ' relationship , as the son whom the father can trust , and as the father whom the son could rely on for support . Rounding up the Bollywood royalty here is the first post marriage pairing of Abhishek and wife Aishwarya Rai , though Rai's character happens to be somewhat sidelined to a few appearances with plenty of tear duct activation , and doesn't really forward the plot much . But should there be another sequel , then Rai's character is already primed for a meatier role then . Sarkar Raj has enough story elements to keep you engaged throughout as the characters make all attempts to outplay , outwit and outlast one another . Basic greed of man and being unappreciated ( then growing feet too big for their shoes ) usually are reasons enough for one to turn against another , but the reminder that goes out is to never rub another man's rhubarb , especially when it belongs to someone with political clout , powerful base support , and well , is a top gangster with no qualms of exacting punishment without remorse . It makes me want to hunt down the DVD for the first installment already , to see how the Nagares got to consolidate their power , and how certain outcomes mentioned here were played out earlier . Definitely a recommended crime and political thriller !
A Nutshell Review : Jesus Camp	Jesus Camp is a horror movie . And the horror is real , not made up , doesn't rely on cheap special effects or tried and tested techniques to make your heart jolt . What's horrific is the systematic brainwashing of children , to have them believe something so abstract , by using devices such as toys , and fear . Children are highly impressionable , and watching the little ones put through a regime of highly charismatic thought processes , and perhaps even empowering them , what you get are little monsters . Angelic faces , but with hearts so demented , they are children no more . And the persons to thank , are the evangelical preachers , who , like perverse adults , find pleasure in indoctrinating young , easy to mould minds , to serve their sick cause . What made it worse , is that these folks find immense pleasure in recording their deeds on tape , and then going home to review them , watching their handiwork all over again . If success at robbing someone makes stealing candy from a toddler count , then these folks surely find this method the easiest , and the one that scores the most points . It's a pain to watch how these children believe , in raising their arms up high , thinking they can feel the holy ghost possessing them , writhe in imaginary pain on the ground , and cry so much crocodile tears , they think the more the holier art thou . It's flat out hypocrisy , one that bears warning about the false prophets that permeate society these days . And how cowards like those target the helpless and those who are in their formative years , to fill their brains with cow dung , and more selfishly , in preparation for the future , where their political ambitions include taking over the government , followed by world domination . They idolize George W Bush ( can someone recall something about worshipping idols ? ) and call non-Christians enemy combatants , whom they want to emulate ( short of bearing arms , at this point ) . They revel in their " enemies " ability to make their children handle bomb vests , while secretly hoping that one day they can do that to their own kids too . Religions are always about love and peace toward all fellow mankind ( or all god's creation ) , but here , the preachers twist words and sow the seed for the future - one of their own designs . Watching how they lambast and so believe their own non - " Dead Church " ways , I think it'll take years for any of those kids shown to be de-programmed from their dangerous thoughts . The " jumping up and down " ways in Church will naturally be appealing , as it goes against the grain of the usual congregational behaviour one would perceive in holy places of worship . And you know , anything that seems rebellious , fun ( c'mon , rock songs , free love , etc ) , and counter-establishment , will always find a place in the heart of a child / teen . And seduction , is always sweet . You can judge me to be critical and non-approving of the behaviour demonstrated , and frankly I don't care . What I would like to see though , is come Judgement Day and for the unfortunate ( likely ? ) reason I can't pass through the Pearly Gates and have to head southwards , I sure like to see those false prophets there with me for eternity . The film managed to portray , in its short 90 minutes , the content , but really , left judging it on your own . What I found a little distracting at times during the documentary , is when the camera has difficulty putting itself into focus , resulting in many shots being focusing shots , from blur to clear , making it a bit nauseating . Should there be a sequel or follow up ( say 10-15th Anniversary DVD Edition ) , it sure would be a blast to see the outcome of these children in their teens , if they have realized their follies , and left their " calling " , or worse , fallen prey into deadly Sin that they have been warned time and again . Stay tuned when the end credits roll for a little coda , where the kids clearly demonstrate bigotry and generalization . So young , but already so set in their minds , in the wrong way .
A Nutshell Review : 12 Storeys	12 Storeys is Eric Khoo's follow up to Mee Pok Man . The opening montage of various scenes around the residential estates prepares the audience for things to come , that the focus will be on the everyday man , and their supposed challenges they face in their daily lives . We start off with lingering shots of a man , who commits suicide , and we explore and glimpse into the lives and relationships of 3 heartland families through his eyes , in one 12 Storey block . There's the abusive mother and dutiful adopted daughter . With her acid tongue and no holds barred rude comments about almost everything about her daughter , the old lady rants on and on about the way she looks , dresses and hurls about almost every abusive ( non vulgar ) Cantonese insult . You emphatize and feel for the daughter , going through with comparisons , and wondering what will eventually make her snap , if she could . Jack Neo plays a buck-toothed henpecked hawker husband to Quan Yi Feng's sarcastic China bride , bringing to the screen every conceivable prejudice against Chinese women , with their perceived gold-digging and flirtatious ways . She hits back though , with stark comments about Singaporean society , and offers an introspective look into the way the Ugly Singaporean behaves . Koh Boon Pin was excellent as the protective and authoritative brother Meng , to Lum May Yee's rebellious and independent Trixie and Ritz Lim's Tee . The Meng-Trixie relationship undergoes the most changes in this film - the start which shows a rather happy family , which progresses into destruction as one member forces his opinions and perceptions onto the other , resulting in an unexpected revelation too difficult for one member to fathom , like a blow to one's pride . Although each storyline is distinct , the narrative intercuts between the three , and sometimes gelled together with subtle humor , or witty coffeeshop banter amongst regulars . I particularly enjoyed the coffeeshop talk , where they talk cock about current affairs of the day ( Michael Fay , 4D , etc ) , or poke fun or insult the other characters of the story , like the adopted daughter , and the henpecked husband . It's these scenes that make this film so real , these rumours and gossips of idle chatter , something which most Jack Neo movies seem to feature too ( perhaps picked up from here ? ) Prominent local actors like Lim Kay Siu , Neo Swee Lin , Lim Kay Tong , etc make cameo appearances , which added additional flavour to the movie . Songs sung by Lum May Yee and Humpback Oak were also nice touches throughout the film . With a snapshot of a cross section of society , we end off without really having most conflicts resolved . Perhaps that's a reflection of life , that when challenges occur , sometimes you have an answer , and sometimes you may not , but life , will always go on .
A Nutshell Review : Trade	The plight of innocent victims of human trafficking for sex has moved filmmakers enough to make movies addressing the issue . The last two in recent memory that I've watch are Your Name is Justine , and Lilya-4ever , both which put the spotlight specifically on the characters created , highlighting the abuse they receive and exposing some of the tricks that the conmen exploit in order to target and thereafter control their prey . Given that the viewpoint of the entire unfortunate ordeal from the perspective of the victims have been portrayed , and is easy and turning the same wheel if done again , Trade takes on a more macroscopic look , while still maintaining a finger in a more personalized tale , in order to ramp up the human drama and emotions . While the other two movies mentioned take place primarily in Europe , Trade highlights a more international network involved in the supply chain , where increasing amounts of money get exchanged for women and children to feed the demand by perverts and paedophiles . While having its premise for the demand set in USA , it goes to show that the unfortunate victims come from all over the world , and suggests the use of Mexico as the proxy to get into the USA illegally , no doubt with the help of corrupted authorities . From then on , it's an established hush-hush protocol of transfers and transactions that take place in the most unseeming of places , and naturally technology comes to play in anonymous bidding on the internet . Primarily , this story is a race against time , following a young Mexican boy , Jorge ( Cesar Raoms ) , in his chase to rescue his sister Adriana ( Paulina Gaitan ) as she gets abducted randomly off the streets - being a young child , she is set to obtain record prices should she be auctioned off to be deflowered . While Adriana gets to enter USA through already established methods by the syndicate , Jorge has to rely on his street smarts , and unwittingly gets hooked up with US cop Ray Sheridan , played by Kevin Kline , who assists in Jorge's quest under moral circumstances rather than deporting Jorge straightaway for being a stray . Like a buddy cop movie , Trade also looks at the unlikely partnership between street delinquent and tough nose cop with the heart of gold , as they try and penetrate the system , while leaving room for some clash of cultures and slightly comedic instances . The unfortunate circumstance of the victims are again getting a shiner in order to be subdued , and of course the weapon of choice , rape . And the movie results in you silently cursing the worst for those involved in the trade , and never sympathizing an iota with them when they receive their dues . Technical wise , someone should tell the filmmakers that password fields are always asterisk , never in clear text , even the dumbest website programmer won't make that mistake . One of my other peeves here was the decision not to mount the camera on a tripod . While it's not the extreme kind of shaky cam like Cloverfield's , it did bring on some queasiness given the very minor movements , all of the time . I don't see the need for this , and wondered if it's because it might look cool and edgy with the fast cuts and all that the tripod was junked , wrongly . Based on a New York Times Magazine article published on 25 Jan 2004 written by Peter Landesman , Trade offers to strike a balance between painting a picture of sympathy for the victims and disgust for the perpetrators . Unlike the other movies which has come before , Trade managed to spin a somewhat refreshing look at the worldwide sex slavery problem .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) I Not Stupid ( 2002 )	OK , I admit that the reason why I'm watching this - it's homework for the upcoming sequel which I intend to watch when it's released in the local theaters . Therefore I needed to be acquainted with the source material other than bits and pieces from the extended television serial . Jack Neo has made movies which have been box-office successes locally , grossing millions , starting with the very popular , but very raw , Money No Enough . It captured the attention and appealed to the heart-landers , who gave him a resounding vote of confidence at the box office . Following that are many social dramadies like That One No Enough , Liang Po Po , and the likes . But perhaps none struck the chord so closely , as that jab at the typical Singaporean kiasu-parents , school administrators who are fearful of their rankings , the much criticized EM1-2-3 streaming in primary schools , and the introduction of perceived foreign talent on our shores . And that's what I Not Stupid is about , and more . Compared to his previous movies , I Not Stupid has matured in refining its story telling techniques , having social issues subtly weaved into its dialog , and giving the audience the ability to draw chuckles out of caricatures of the government in its characters ( Selena Tan as the big-momma , dressed in all white , all the time , anyone ? ) The casting also took some major changes , without having J-Team members as lead characters here . The 3 child leads did quite OK , given that they have veterans actors as their parents helped a lot too . The plot did seem to wear on as it seemed to drag to make it 2 hours , which contributed to quite a bit of plot holes . Also , some subplots seemed unnecessary too , or if retained in the film , wasn't succinct to the point , like the kidnapping subplot . However , if you've been following Jack Neo's movies , then it is marked improvement . The jokes are less slapstick , though it was kinda strange to have characters telling jokes , and everyone around laughing . Not that it was bad , just quite unnaturally acted . So am I ready for I Not Stupid Too ? Frankly , yes . Though the trailer did not reveal too much except for the public caning scene , I'm silently geared up for more social issues being taken to the stand , and awaiting to see how Jack Neo spins them together for another ride . Special Edition Code 3 DVD contains 2 music videos from the movie , song lyrics , packaged into a pictorial book containing the synopsis and cast and crew interviews and biographies .
A Nutshell Review : Hard Candy	Hard candy is an internet slang for an under-aged girl . And this actually reminded me of a social experiment that a friend and I conducted in the internet chat rooms some 5 years back . There were always plenty of talk and reports about how dangerous the Internet is , with the chatrooms being a gold mine for pedophiles chatting up little girls , and then doing dastardly deeds with them when they're enticed to meet up in real life . So we decided to check it out ourselves . My friend and I posed as " sweetgal18 " and entered a local popular chatroom . Even before you can say Hello , pop ups after pop ups of private messages come flooding the screen , some started innocently , others were more direct , asking for sexual favors . In this experiment however , we stopped short of arranging to meet these people , and turn up just to take their photos from afar and put it online . However , I recall of late some local blogsite actually started a crusade against these perverts , and went the extra mile which we couldn't . Bravo ! Now back to the movie . With a cast of essential 2 leads + 3 extras with extremely limited screen time , the story and dialog pieces had to be extremely engaging to hold the audience's attention . And that was successfully done . It begins with a sexually charged tease over a chatroom conversation between Jeff Kohlver ( Patrick Wilson ) , a 32 year old photographer , and Hayley Stark ( Ellen Page ) , a 14 year old student whose level of maturity surpasses her age . They decide to meet up , and we play witness to a seemingly innocent face to face introduction , before things start to become a little loaded with double entrees , and dialogs laced with innuendoes . Before long , Hayley decides to follow Jeff home , and there's where the " fun " begins , where little red riding hood goes up against a probably " coloured wolf " . It's in the same vein as Saw , except that the explicit violence is exchanged for psychological warfare , and throughout the entire movie , you're constantly wondering and changing positions of thought , as to who's possibly right , or wrong , doing the right thing ( vigilantism ? ) - who's actions can be justified , or should you pity the victim caught in a tables about turned situation ? You'll be second guessing a lot , as the psychological play gets stepped up and you wonder just who should you thrown your support to - could Hayley just be a crazed kid , and could Jeff possibly be maligned and actually is a harmless soul ? The characters straddle both ends of the good-evil spectrum , until certain hints start to prod you in the right direction . But as psychological play is concerned , this means plenty of dialog , and thankfully the leads were credible in their delivery . However , it also means that not much happens , until the frantically paced set action pieces that never relents up till the end . There is however one major scene which will definitely make you squirm . I know I did , and my stomach actually churned , even without having the scene explicitly played out on screen as punishment is dished . All's revealed at the finale , and despite so much drama-mama , it'll actually make you smile with ( sick ) satisfaction about the grandeur plot , which to some , is a loophole akin to a typical Bond villain's monologue . The movie serves as a timely reminder for anyone with children or young siblings , to warn them of the clear and present dangers of the dark side of the internet , that they should reveal any personal information about their personal lives , or in the first place , not to chat with strangers . On the net , everyone can be anyone . Then again , strangers should not talk to seemingly innocent children , lest they really turn out to be psychopaths . I wish these perverts ill fortune that something of his nature will befall them , and that they get their just desserts . I smell a possible franchise that could happen .
A Nutshell Review : Dog Bite Dog	First things first , Edison Chen did a fantastic , believable job as a Cambodian hit-man , born and bred in the dumps and a gladiatorial ring , where he honed his craft of savage battery in order to survive , living on the mantra of kill or be killed . In a role that had little dialogue , or at least a few lines in Cambodian / Thai , his performance is compelling , probably what should have been in the Jet Li vehicle Danny the Dog , where a man is bred for the sole purpose of fighting , and on someone else's leash . Like Danny the Dog , the much talked about bare knuckle fight sequences are not choreographed stylistically , but rather designed as normal , brutal fisticuffs , where everything goes . This probably brought a sense of realism and grit when you see the characters slug it out at each other's throats , in defending their own lives while taking it away from others . It's a grim , gritty and dark movie both literally and figuratively , and this sets it apart from the usual run off the mill cop thriller production . Edison plays a hired gun from Cambodia , who becomes a fugitive in Hong Kong , on the run from the cops as his pickup had gone awry . Leading the chase is the team led by Cheung Siu-Fai , who has to contend with maverick member Inspector Ti ( Sam Lee ) , who's inclusion and acceptance in the team had to do with the sins of his father . So begins a cat and mouse game in the dark shades and shadows of the seedier looking side of Hong Kong . The story itself works on multiple levels , especially in the character studies of the hit-man , and the cop . On opposite sides of the law , we see within each character not the black and white , but the shades of grey . With the hit-man , we see his caring side when he got hooked up and developed feelings of love for a girl ( Pei Pei ) , bringing about a sense of maturity , tenderness , and revealing a heart of gold . The cop , with questionable tactics and attitudes , makes you wonder how one would buckle when willing to do anything it takes to get the job done . There are many interesting moments of moral questioning , on how anti-hero , despicable strategies are adopted . You'll ask , what makes a man , and what makes a beast , and if we have the tendency to switch sides depending on circumstances - do we have that dark inner streak in all of us , transforming from man to dog , and dog to man ? Dog Bite Dog grips you from the start and never lets go until the end , though there are points mid way through that seemed to drag , especially on its tender moments , and it suffered too from not knowing when to end . If I should pick a favourite scene , then it must be the one in the market food centre - extremely well controlled and delivered , a suspenseful edge of your seat moment . Listen out for the musical score too , and you're not dreaming if you hear growls of dogs . Highly recommended , especially if you think that you've seen about almost everything from the cop thriller genre .
A Nutshell Review : Defiance	My first thoughts about the film , was of Ken Loach's The Wind That Shakes The Barley , the Palme d'Or winner in 2006 . Similarly , Defiance has brothers leading a rag-tag group of Jewish refugees in guerrilla warfare and a quest for survival , where being alive everyday means a middle finger to the Third Reich during WWII , and organizing themselves to become a tightly knitted community where , like their Russian neighbours , everyone has an equal role to play to get rewarded with equal food . And with two lion-hearted brothers at the helm , sooner or later the sibling rivalry will rear its ugly head , and differing political ideals will see them part ways . Dramatized from a true story , you can sense the kind of films that Edward Zwick selects . From Glory to the much maligned Siege , from The Last Samurai to Blood Diamonds , it's almost always the battle against an oppressive regime , where the underdogs hold out to tell their tale another day . It's a battle within oneself to do what one perceives as the right thing , nevermind about the extremely limited resources , or the weather coming to wreck havoc , and the challenge to hold a community of strangers together working toward a common goal . Set in Belarus during the German invasion of WWII , David Craig plays Tuvia Bielski , who is akin to the Moses of the day by the community he shields and looks after , because they move in exodus from point to point within the forest to escape detection and get out of harm's way . The religious metaphors here are inevitably strong , and plays a major part given that God's chosen people are questioning their persecution , one point even praying to denounce that birthright so that they could no longer need to suffer under the hands of man , and the weather . Craig's role here is 10 times better than his Bland Bond from Quantum of Solace , and has more personality here to showcase his acting chops . Liev Schreiber holds his own as the brother Zus Bielski , who subscribes to the mantra of an eye for an eye , preferring the rough and tumble of being an aggressor rather than to cower , believing that the best defense is still an offense , wanting to bring the war back to the Nazis . He also prefers not to accept anymore refugees that they can handle , as their group get sought out by hundreds on sheer reputation alone . So herein they clash , and he throws his weight behind their Russian neighbours in their resistance effort . Schreiber here has a more action-oriented role , but has enough screen presence to not get overshadowed by Craig's star power . And rounding up the brothers is Jamie Bell's Asael Bielski , and if Tuvia's the Moses , then here's Joshua , the young man who shows his mettle during a critical scene in a flight for survival . Supporting the brothers ' screen presence are a whole host of characters ranging from their individual lady love ( yes , there's always time for a morale boosting wedding ) , and the bantering of two intellectuals played by Allan Corduner and Mark Feuerstein over chess games , allowing fleeting discussions into whether support from the Russians is the lesser of two evils . There's also time given to community politics , and the selfishness of man , always trying to snook established practices for self-benefit at the detriment of the community , especially one whose members are weak to fend for themselves . There aren't many uplifting moments in the movie , as there's always more problems they encounter before any semblance of light at the end of their tunnel . Production values are excellent , and unlike the much talked about lack of accents in Bryan Singer's Valkyrie , this one does have everyone speaking in their East European accent in order to maintain some level of authenticity . You'd know what to expect from an Edward Zwick film , and this one doesn't stray too much from that established expectation . For WWII war-movie junkies , this film should also be in your shortlist of must-watchs .
A Nutshell Review : Smokin ' Aces	I've enjoyed Joe Carnahan's earlier movie Narc when it was shown here years ago , a gritty undercover narcotics cops and robbers story with Patric Jason and Ray Liotta as a crazed unorthodox cop . Here in Smokin ' Aces , a few of the same techniques are employed as to the presentation and style in which the movie was shot , and it makes this movie such an adrenaline rush . The movie's title refers to the the wanting to bump off Buddy " Aces " Israel ( Jeremy Piven ) , an acclaimed Las Vegas magician with ties to the Italian mob , and who's about to squeal to the Feds and thereafter vanishing into the Witness Protection programme . Naturally , the mob has a contract put out , and all the bounty hunters and contract killers , from the likes of Ben Affleck to Alicia Keys ( yup , in her first action movie ) , congregate in a Lake Tahoe hotel to try and lay claim to Aces ' life . Standing in their way are two FBI agents Richard ( Ryan Reynolds ) and Donald ( Ray Liotta again , from Wild Hogs and Carnahan's Narc ) , whose perspective of the case we take on , and journey together up until its revelation , with so many twists in store , that you can't help but to pay close attention . Loaded with plenty of guns and shoot em ups , Smokin ' Aces delivers enough thrills and spills for the action crime thriller fans , especially when there are ample opportunities presented due to the presence of a large ensemble cast . What's interesting is to observe how professional hit men go about their business , in wheeling and dealing their way , inching as close as they can to the mark . With a deal as hot as this , two or more groups going in at the same time , in a speed race , will naturally set their gunsights on one another , intentionally or otherwise , and it's a blast to see how they wriggle in and out of such situations , in classic black-eat-black scenarios . Having battles on many fronts make this a never-ending roller coaster ride . But it's not the action that's top notch - violent , brutal and bloody , which is easy to degenerate the movie into a blood sport , but the ending which I thought is a bit unconventional , though nonetheless powerful . It's a sign to the authorities , who are always screwing up , tripping themselves with cock ups and protocols , that enough's enough , and to quit the bullshit talk . I've never been held breathless at an ending for some time already , and Smokin ' Aces gets that credit . Highly recommended to those who like their thrillers take the necessary build up and assembling all the chess pieces , ready to strike at any moment , followed by the unleashing of plenty of mayhem right up until the end . Smokin ' hot !
A Nutshell Review : The Dead Girl	The story brought memories of an old television cult series called Twin Peaks . A dead , blonde girl's body is being discovered in the grasslands of an idyllic village , and this provides the catalyst for the movie as the plot unravels to tell of the stories that centers around that discovery . In summary , it had a total of 5 short stories all inter-weaved through a fragmented timeline , and a host of characters in those stories who have one way or another , played a part in the girl's life , during when she was alive , and after . The Stranger stars Toni Collette as the woman who discovered the body , and how she gets thrust into the media limelight , yet yearning for that freedom to flee from her domineering mother . The Sister tells of a pathologist's inability to fight on and continue her family's believe that her missing sister is still out there somewhere , and not to throw in the towel and give up hope . The Wife will manage to rile you up , with the story of a neglected wife , and her hopes for reconciling with her estranged husband , who prefers gallivanting late at night to spending time with her , and of course , with her decision to protect her husband's secrets to losing him for sure altogether when revealed . And The Mother reminds you that a mother's love knows no bounds . Hurt by her daughter's disappearance , the worse case scenario happens , and Mum has got to heal old wounds . It's a touching short , and I thought one of the most powerful amongst the rest . And rounding it up , like the last pieces of a jigsaw , is The Dead Girl's story , where we see a foul mouthed Brittany Murphy bringing it all on . The movie had excellent performances all round by the ensemble cast , and it doesn't have any big bang moments to shock and awe . It's a dramatic story , rather than a mystery - thriller-whodunnit . I was glad that it didn't go down the torture porn route , although it could have , but didn't need to . Leaving it where it is will already allow your imagination to run wild what the outcome will be . However , this might serve as a let down to some as it might seem that it failed to want to bridge the missing gap in the timeline . Fragmented timeline and multiple , parallel stories do seem to be the rage these days ( Babel anyone ? ) , but it all boils down to how much of a story you can make out of a single drop in the pond . That's what The Dead Girl feels like , with the stories the inevitable ripples that fan out . You Are My Sunshine looks like a song very popularly used in end credits , and so far I had thought that it was a simple childhood nursery song . But when used in this context , it had a profound depth telling of longing and missing , that everyone has their own sunshine that they hold very dear to . Recommended movie , especially if you're into the fragmented timeline fad .
A Nutshell Review : Imagine Me & You	I'm not sure if that bubblegum tune can belong amongst the gay anthems , given that Wong Kar Wai's had a gay themed movie titled Happy Together and used the same song too . Yes well , as you would already know , GLBT movies from UK are emerging , from Kinky Boots earlier ( one of my faves for the year ) , and now Imagine Me & You hitting our shores next week . Rachel ( Piper Perabo , a dead ringer for Rachel McAdams ) and Hector ( Matthew Goode , from Match Point ) are about to get married after years of courtship . On their wedding day , Rachel notices Luce ( Lena Headey ) from the corner of her eye , and from brief introductions turned into family gatherings , turned into something more . Rachel experiences strange feelings for Luce and the feelings turned out to be mutual , but what about Hector ? It's a classic case of everyone's worst nightmare come true , finding out that the person you're about to marry , or have married , actually loves somebody else , and that someone else being the same sex just compounds the effect . One character said in passing that anybody can swing to the other camp , before a slight hesitation , correcting that only probably he wouldn't . And that made an interesting caveat which the movie explores - how do you know if your sexual orientation is rock solid ( that might seem a " d'uh " statement until you watch the movie ) , or do you have the tendency to swing ( think Kinsey had a theory on this ) . What if you find yourself experiencing this inexplicable force of feelings you never knew for someone else , when you're already married or with a life partner ? And speaking of life partners , how do you know the one you're with , is the one for you ? And life partners being partners , must it always be in matrimony or strictly about the opposite sex ? At the end of the day , what matters is the chemistry and the ability to click , right ? The movie asks a lot of these questions beneath its cheerful yet melancholic veneer , although it never provides a straight answer . As always , you can replace the lesbian relationship here in the story with a heterosexual one , but it probably won't impact an audience as much ( just as Brokeback Mountain would work with a heterosexual couple , but will bore the heck out of audiences and not win any award at all ) . While the movie offers to suggest certain ideas like love at first sight , it doesn't really demonstrate that effectively ( more like lust at first sight ) nor seemed to have a valid reason to do so , though it toyed with the fleeting thought about reincarnation . You might feel that writer-director Ol Parker had filled the movie with plenty of romantic clichés and notions about setting someone free if you really love them , or the thought about being with someone you can live without rather than someone you can live with . In fact , the entire premise might be a bit contrived , but hey , if you think about it , the world is full of quirky events and people , so maybe something like this could happen too . This movie should do reasonable well amongst the GLBT crowd with its theme , and given the eye candy cast , probably will do well as a whole . It's nothing spectacular , just that as a movie , it should work the crowd like clockwork
A Nutshell Review : Umizaru 2 : Test of Trust	Umizaru belongs to the kind of movies glorifying whichever the uniformed group under their spotlight . Those which I have enjoyed include the obvious US Navy pilots in Top Gun , the firefighters in Backdraft , and the Secret Service in In The Line of Fire . While those are Hollywood movies , Japan also had in 2004 made a movie about a rookie team of Coast Guards in Umizaru , and this follow up sequel brings back search and rescue diver Daisuke Senzaki ( Hideaki Ito ) and his team into what is probably another Poseidon like adventure . Titled " Limit of Love " , it's a strange moniker for a movie which is high on the action , and soppy on the romance . This movie continues the romantic relations between our hero Senzaki-san and his fiancée Kanna Izawa ( Ai Katô ) , or rather the strained relations between the two after the former rejected the obvious hints of the latter to marry her , because of some strange personal reasons of skeletons from his closet which continued to haunt him . Brooding hero must exorcise these demons before he can commit to settling down , get it ? Therefore perhaps for similar reasons , we had it retitled as Test of Trust instead , as there are plenty of moments with reference to the title . In trusting your buddies to come back for you , in trusting the experts to do a job they are trained for , in trusting your fiancé to take care of himself and come back alive , the list goes on . But fret not even if you haven't watched the first movie , you'll be orientated soon enough to be in the thick of the action . The filmmakers spared no expense in making this movie big , with planes , helicopters , ships , rafts , and tons of extras to make it a grand spectacle . Water-Underwater sequences are always never easy , and I dare say , given that this premise is similar to an earlier Hollywood stinker bore Poseidon , Umirazu 2 triumphs with its action sequences if they are compared side by side . It's not the special effects or the razzle dazzle ( in which Poseidon wins hands down ) , but it's by its delivery . Keeping the cast and rescuees intimately small also helped in not having too many characters who can be brushed off easily as fodder , making them the regular , though clichéd , folks that you would actually care for . If there is a gripe however , it'll be at how the melodrama gets drummed up into dizzying heights with plenty of lingering shots coupled with rousing crescendos from the soundtrack . While these are there probably for emphasis and dramatic effect , one can't help forget that in order for it to be a bit more believable , hey , it's a rescue operation ! Cut the crap and the ra - ra talk , and just get on with saving lives or getting the hell out of whatever danger zones you are in ! I can't help but smile inside when certain scenes are shot in typical Japanese fashion with characters looking hard at each other and giving constant nods of assurances , especially in the control centre . Some things don't change do they ? But all in all , this is a pretty interesting action movie , after a dearth of non-romance or horror movies from the land of the rising sun .
A Nutshell Review : Pirates of the Caribbean : Dead Man's Chest	It was peculiar , but it might be signs of things to come . When I entered the theatre this evening for the Pirates of the Caribbean : Dead Man's Chest gala premiere today at Cathay , on screen was this static frame of the PoTC logo , with the words : " Singapore , Home of Pirates of the Caribbean : At World's End , May 2007 " . If I may read too much into it , does it mean that there will be no effort spared in having the World Gala of PoTC3 right here on our shores , since Singapore was mentioned in both PoTC1 and PoTC2 ? And with Chow Yun-Fatt's wife being from here , does it mean we got an additional boost ? One can only dream , but you heard it here first . Anyway , our favourite characters from the high seas are back ! From perennial favourite Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow , to fan girl groupie idol Orlando Bloom as Will Turner , it's no wonder why the movie has sailed its way comfortably into the record books for the highest grossing opening weekend . Familiar elements that made the first movie a success are continued here to ensure the sequel's appeal and probably longevity in holding high box office spots in weeks to come . While I shall avoid the specifics of the plot , it meanders around the title's Dead Man's Chest , a box containing an artefact so powerful , that everyone , ranging from our pirates , to new villain Davy Jones , to the British East India Company , are actively seeking so as to rule the seven seas . The usual lead characters are back , with an expanded cast made up by some supporting characters from the first movie , and new ones developed , especially the villains . But bugger , a big budgeted crowd pleasing summer popcorn flick comes with certain flaws though , but easily overlooked and forgiven . The plot doesn't seem to stand still , and there are many subplots thrown all over , no doubt made complicated by Jack Sparrow's seemingly scheming ideas . The first half , widely used in the trailers , seemed to drag on forever with slapstick comedy included which lost steam halfway through . Not to mention with plot holes so big you wonder how certain characters can actually survive . The sets still looked as spectacular , though already tinged with a sense of familiarity . Jack Sparrow's Black Pearl now has been overshadowed by Davy Jones ' Flying Dutchman , which is an awesome eery looking ship that comes with submerging properties . There are plenty of special effects and makeup done , and Sparrow's and Barbossa's jolly crew from the first are now given the one-up by Jones ' merman sea-creature like pirates . Even Jones ' himself consisted of medusa-like squid tentacles on his squishy wet face , and has a humongous crab claw for a hand . The usual comedic elements are not forgotten , but somehow lacked as much fun and punch which audiences experienced in the original . It's one of those you - know - it's - suppose - to - be - funny - but - why - aren't - I - laughing - out - loud moments . The action sequences are also bigger and louder , but that made it a tad overdrawn at certain times . Though visually pleasing , it's as if the sequences had to justify the many cool special effects shots and stunts designed for the movie , and so had to extend its runtime for that purpose . The clincher for this movie is perhaps the characterization and relationships . It reminded the audience of several character motivations , and provided new ones as well . Unexpected character changes and shifts will make you go " Hmm ! " and provide additional fuel to power the trilogy into its final film . This movie , being the second part of the trilogy , suffered from being the " bridging " tale . While it has some kind of a standalone story , it's still part of a bigger picture not fully explained in itself . I likened the movie to being the equivalent of the Matrix Reloaded in the Wachowski Bros ' Matrix Trilogy , with plenty of ideas , characters , sub plots , character shifts thrown into the mix , in a plot that goes around , before hanging with a cliffhanger . SPOILERS START Come to think of it , it's gonna be much like the Revolution's ( and even Star War's Return of the Jedi ) first act , where our heroes have to seek out and redeem their charismatic messiah . SPOILERS END So ahoy mates ! It's nonetheless a stormy ride , but one which will lead us to anticipate the story to sail over to the Orient , passing through Singapore ( finally get to see exactly what Jack's been boasting about all this while ) , and meeting up with their Asian counterparts . It's gonna be one heck of a multi-way fight at world's end ! And oh , stay tuned until after the end credits for a small scene , but one which probably doesn't contain any clues , or directly influencing the final movie .
A Nutshell Review : Alvin and the Chipmunks	Or at least that's how the theme song of the cartoon series sounded like , dug out from my subconscious . For those , like me , who have grown up in the 80s watching television cartoons like Mask , Transformers , He-Man , there are those which are less action based , such as Peanuts , and of course , Alvin and the Chipmunks , featuring the trio of Alvin , the de-facto ringleader , Simon the smart one ( hence the cliché glasses ) and the greedy Theodore . With cartoons from the past being remade into feature length movies , such as Scooby Doo and Garfield , yielding mixed box office results , what about these 3 ? To begin with , this is not quite like the cartoon series , in that the chipmunks are sized correctly , as with the other adaptations ( no more handgun transforming to 50 foot robot ) , and curiously enough , they didn't need their body length clothes to hide their modesty , just a top coloured in the right way will do . And for Alvin , all is forgiven when the filmmakers finally remembered he sported a cap . Having effects wizardry helped to in bringing to life the trio of chipmunks , down to the last furry detail such as their hairdo . Those of us who have grown up with the series , will find multiple shades of story lines adapted from the cartoons all meshed into one here . It's a reworked origin story of sorts , so as to bring in a new legion of followers who haven't seen the series on television . Created by Ross Bagdasarian Sr almost 50 years ago , to have the characters translate to the big screen , bode well for its longevity , at least from the reaction I got from the kids , they are in love with the singing trio with all the clapping and the dancing along the aisle ( yes ! ) each time they perform in their high pitched voices . I too was tempted to applaud , but that would be too geeky-like for those moments I became a kid again . Jason Lee stars as Dave Seville , the " father " of our singing sensation , who finds it a little difficult in trying to warm up to the notion of being family with animals . Having started off the wrong foot , it provided ample opportunity for that iconic scream " Aaaalviiiiinnnnnnn ! ! ! " , as he finds himself out of a career and with 3 extra mouths to feed . But as rehashed scenes and storyline goes , the Chipmunks soon prove to be taking the USA by storm with their brand of oh-so-cute voices and slick dance moves , that they become superstars in their own right . You'll know the drill from here , as dodgy music label producer Ian ( David Cross ) tries to undermine Dave to pry the cash-cows ( heh ) from the latter using despicable tactics , giving rise to being the sole adversary with the evil corporation type who's out to exploit and milk the chipmunks for what they're worth . Being a family friendly film , the theme of belonging and err , blood running thicker than water and profits , ring through , though I thought to toddlers , that might not actually matter , but to the parents bringing them to the theatre , then it's a reminder that children do appreciate being loved and having that pat on the back . Justin Long , Matthew Gray Gubler and Jesse McCartney provided the voices for our lovable chipmunks Alvin , Simon and Theodore respectively , though that didn't really matter in the final end product given that their voices had to be sped up to achieve that chipmunk effect . In fact , you and I could also be reading the lines , and applying the same technique to become chipmunks ourselves . And amongst the three , I dare say Theodore will win new fans in the very manja way it got portrayed . A key scene from the trailer had been reworked , so don't be surprised if you see that deviation - though for once , I thought the trailer version was better and closer to character . Like the movie says , " they're talking chipmunks ! " so I feel that given the holiday season , and the tie-in with the movie to the season of good tidings , it may actually bode well for the film . There may be nothing truly new in the antics of the chipmunks , but they will probably still charm your socks off . So before you roll your eyes at yet another talking-animal film , give this one a chance , and I'm quite certain you'll be tapping your feet at the right moments too ! So hit it again , Alvin , Simon , Theodore ! And watch those plush merchandise fly off the shelves in time for X'mas ! Stay tuned during the end credit roll which showcased some of the album art from their musical albums of the past .
A Nutshell Review : Eating Air	That's the gist of most of the dialogue in this made-in-Singapore film , and it is the earnest dialogue that kept this film " real " and not cringeworthy if it had been polished English language skills used instead . Following the chronicles of Ah Bengs , Ah Boy , our anti-hero protagonist played by Benjamin Heng , introduces to us his gang of arcade playing , motorcycle riding , and rooftop gathering friends . While street corner gangs are not as sophisticated as organized hoodlums , they too practice their own brand of honor . Petty fights are common , and so are motorcycle challenges . But when his best friend Ah Gu chances upon drugs and borrows from loan sharks , what will happen to their friendship , as the challenges that they face become more and more dangerous . Romance is in contrast to the reality and ugliness of street gangs , With Ah Bengs , there surely is their Ah Lians hugging their torsos on bike rides ( jiak hong in Hokkien , for joyrides ) . Alvina Toh plays Ah Girl , Ah Boy's main squeeze . The moments together are bittersweet , boy-meets-girl , falls in love , boy-loses-girl , punctuated with an excellent soundtrack done by local acts like the Boredphucks . It's back to the old days where mobile phones are not as prevalent , and calls are made to each other using early technology like pagers and voice messages , which was nostalgic ( brought back some memories lah ) . Heng brought life to Ah Boy , with his crazy kung-fu imagination ( think Ally McBeal style ) , as he evolves from an aimless wanderer , to crazed impetious street kid who stands by his pal . Toh too plays her role convincingly , as a schoolgirl seduced by Ah Boy's carefree ways , to becoming someone with inner strength . This film manages to gel its subplots together , adding much to its depth . While its protagonists are street gangsters , it makes no attempt to glorify nor condone their actions , and therefore doesn't feel preachy on what's right or wrong . Adding the comedic touch are Michelle Chong , in her heavy accented mandarin as a lao chio photocopy shop owner , and Mark Lee , veteran TV beng who plays , what else , a dua kang lao beng who pines after a mysterious lady ( played by singer Kit Chan ) . It's always a blast to see familiar locales , and more so in a Singapore film . Places recognizable are Lucky Plaza and Katong Shopping Centre , and of course , the CTE takes a substantial chunk of the narrative , the location where we start off , and end . For some reason , I didn't catch this film when it was released in 1999 . Perhaps it's because of the unfamiliarity with local productions , and now I kick myself for being a tad myopic back then , but glad to have caught it during Screen Singapore . Think I'm gonna have one heck of a fun time as Screen Singapore progresses .
A Nutshell Review : General Idi Amin Dada : Autoportrait	After watching this documentary on Ugandan dictator Idi Amin , you'd come to think that Forest Whitaker's award winning portrayal in The Last King of Scotland had given the military general more intellect , more cunning and definitely a more clear cut look at the nature of the man's evils . But in fact , from what you can glean from this documentary , he seemed to be more fuddy duddy , with surprising charisma whether or not due to his public demeanour , and his semi-illiterateness in the English Language ( again , Whitaker made him sound grammatical ) . Movies about political leaders are not new , and lately there's one that's also sanctioned by a leader himself , a made by a Singaporean documentary called A Hero's Journey , which presents a snapshot of the life of President Xanana Gusmao of Timor Leste . In this Idi Amin documentary , he has final word on what gets presented , and what not , and it's quite surprising that he's OK with making himself look like a buffoon , whether deliberate or not , leaves much to interpretation of his intent . You might say he wanted to show off what he can do , and what power he wields over his cronies , but on the other , there certainly are plenty of material which could easily have dented his popularity and aura . Watching him go through his motions just brought about a thought , that evil men need not wear their evilness or ruthlessness on their sleeves . Here , Idi Amin might be the real life personification of The Joker , smiling on the outside , but inside his heart harbours thoughts similar to the mentioned villain . He's like a charismatic comedian , and makes it difficult not to laugh at his atrocities because he really does have a lot of funny ideas . His mastery of the English language is woeful , but that doesn't stop him from speaking it , and the filmmakers subtitling every grammatical error he's made too , instead of correcting it for an audience . He's a self-professed soothsayer and an interpreter of dreams , and sends strange telegrams to various heads of state which reads like a script for a sitcom . He's often delusional as well , and some of the highlights of this documentary , which has to be seen to be believed , include his imaginary war games to take the Golan Heights from the Israelis given his very puny army , laughable air force and armour , and best of all , training his paratroopers on a children's slide . What cannot be missed as well , are his briefings to the country's doctors and to witness him holding court as one of his cabinet meetings , which was so full of contradictions and hare-brained ideas , you can't help but laugh at the farce of it all . You can just imagine how any country could be run with jokers like these in power . He can't speak , can't communicate , and basically doesn't even know an iota about running a military ( besides the rudimentary appreciation of semi-automatic weapons ) , let alone a country . He's full of personal prejudice and practices discrimination , but one thing's for sure , he's quite a musician , having contributed to the soundtrack of the film . If you think you want to go beyond The Last King of Scotland to look at this dictator up close and personal , then this documentary should be your first step in trying to understand the contradiction which is His Excellency President for Life Field Marshal Al Hadji Dr . Idi Amin , VC , DSO , MC , King of Scotland Lord of All the Beasts of the Earth and Fishes of the Sea and Conqueror of the British Empire in Africa in General and Uganda in Particular ( yes , that's his official title ! )
A Nutshell Review : Panda Diary	The immense popularity of wildlife documentaries once reserved for National Geographic or the Discovery Channels have made their way to the big screen , in no doubt having their path cleared by the success of March of the Penguins . Of late , the foxes got the spotlight in a more fictional take with The Fox and the Child , and now , the Japanese jumps on the same bandwagon by making an animal documentary but on the Chinese's iconic panda bear , with the Chinese being co-producers of course to avoid similar protests of lamentation over Hollywood's Kung Fu Panda , and having it shot in China's Great Panda research facility in Sichuan would be a collaboration of sorts . What makes a successful documentary of such nature ( pardon the pun ) ? I guess the prime ingredient here will definitely have to be the young ones . You must always have cute babies , and how adorable they are will proportionately affect how audiences will take to the film . The baby penguins made March of the Penguins , and so did the baby Fox . Here , we get baby pandas while they're still slightly pinkish , and the rolly-polly one year olds who roll around the nature reserve , in chase of the camera . Panda Diary follows the more conventional model like March rather than to have a total fictional narrative spun on it like Fox . And as the title already suggests , the narrative here follows a month by month account from August to August where we have two threads before they converge together . The first focuses on two pandas who had lived their known life in a Japanese theme park , before being repatriated back to China for further assimilation with their own kind , as well as to support efforts in having the pandas breed through environments set up for it . The other thread of course is the day to day operations within the research facility , where we see how they are coaxed into mating - the researchers being very much like voyeurs in a way , their dietary habits and immense liking for bamboo shoots , and how efforts are made into trying to preserve their wildlife habitat as far as possible . The pandas are solitary by nature , and they need to be given plenty of space , which of course is only a luxury these days . There were a couple of scenes where they had to be caged ( for transportation purposes ) and you can tell the bears are very much uncomfortable and distressed by it . As an educational tool , you can get to learn a lot more about the Pandas in 100 minutes , such as how they contribute to their own dwindling numbers where they mate only once a year ( miss the boat and it's another 365 days of waiting ) and usually give birth to twins , where they would only nurture one of them and leave the other for naught . Naturally in the research facility some manipulation is done to ensure both babies get raised with equal attention and resource , and there are a lot more nuggets of information like these that will simply amaze you . Why wait for Panda diplomacy in order to get up close and personal with these likable cuddly creatures ? The film offers an opportunity not to be missed , so if you like to know more about the fact behind the fictional Kung Fu Panda ( no , they don't do Kung Fu though they have tremendous strength ) , then this documentary would be right up your alley to understand more about this endangered species .
A Nutshell Review : The Patriot ( 2000 )	Brought to screen by the creative team behind Godzilla , Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin bring on board 2 actors of Australian descent ( Mel Gibson and Heath Ledger ) to tell you a tale of the American Revolutionary War , set in the year 1796 , where the British are whipping the Continental soldiers real bad . It doesn't dwell too much on the big picture , but focuses on a smaller details which might stir your interest to read up more on that part of history . Mel Gibson plays Benjamin Martin , a retired soldier , now farmer , who has a war reputation of being a brutal , efficient man of war . He tends to his land and brings up seven children , of whom the eldest , Gabriel Martin ( Heath Ledger ) , goes against his father's wish and enlists in the Continental army to pursue his ideal of freedom and just cause . As Benjamin warned , this war will be fought not on some faraway place , but at their doorsteps . And true enough , he finds British soldiers on his land , who finds fault with him , murders one of his sons in cold blood , and taking away an injured Gabriel . Enraged , Benjamin massacres an entire platoon of soldiers , and earns himself the nickname " The Ghost " , in one of the more intense battle scenes in this movie . It's satisfying to watch how one man ( and his two other children ) plan an ambush and take on their enemies , while showing no mercy in their quest for revenge . Drawn reluctantly into the war by his personal unfortunate episode , Benjamin volunteers for service and links up with Gabriel to recruit a band of militia Patriots to take on the well organized British soldiers , using guerrilla tactics to ambush and contain the British in the south , stalling their plans to move up North to crush Washington's troops . It's interesting to note that the British general Lord Charles Cornwallis ( played by Tom Wilkinson ) was portrayed as a gentleman who fights fairly in his own opinion , and prides himself in doing so . But when the desperation for success creeps in , he sanctions guerrilla tactics against the civilian townfolk in order to get to the Patriots ( sounds like modern day terrorism ? ) . You can't help but laugh at his naivety when being conned by Benjamin in one prisoner exchange scene . As with most war movies after Saving Private Ryan , blood and gore get a fair bit of air time , and back in the 18th century , war is fought almost face to face . There is the musket , which fires only one shot , then requires a reload , and a long bayonet affixed at the tip for that bayonet fighting in close quarters . But what really is terrifying is the artillery's predecessor - the cannon . Many scenes in this movie show how a simple cannonball can decapitate human limbs , and even rip a human head off the torso . Pretty gruesome stuff . Running close to three hours long , this movie doesn't bore you with its many subplots about family and relationships , but rather , these elements enhance and bring forth the horrors of war , that everyone out there is a brother , father , son , and highlights that not every war is meant to be for a honourable cause . It could be as simple as fighting for , and with , the person beside you .
A Nutshell Review : Re-Cycle	Be careful what you wish for , because sometimes , they just might come true , whether you like it to or not . A writer's inspiration can also be adapted from real life events , with a dash of dramatic license added to spice things up for the reader . And an environmental message which is worked quite effortlessly into the narrative , makes one wonder in awe too . Re-Cycle is the latest horror thriller from the acclaimed Pang Brothers , whose Bangkok Dangerous I had enjoyed tremendously . Perhaps an Asian answer to Hollywood's Wachowski Brothers with their flair for interesting visuals and stories which thread on many levels , Oxide and Danny Pang's latest movie stars Angelica Lee ( or Lee Sin-Je if you prefer ) , already having her fair share of spook fests in her filmography . Ting Yin ( Lee ) is a successful writer whose love stories are literary blockbusters . Infusing elements of her life into her stories , she gets troubled as she attempts to break genre and work on horror instead . And it is this introductory act that things really go bump in the dark , incorporating the Asian dark mood and eerie atmosphere which have become staples of horror movies this part of the world . Familiar scenes like long hair ( The Wig ? ) , water ( Ju-On ? ) , and dark frightening shadows make their necessary appearance , coupled with extremely loud music and screams and the right moments , I admit my heart skipped . But Re-Cycle took a different path thereafter . Gone are the horrific elements used to shock . and in comes a whole lot of atmosphere and computer generated graphics , designed to awe . The centre piece of a slum-like deserted street and dilapidated buildings , with its silently deserted streets , and then plenty of zombies , reminded me of yet another moody horror movie Silent Hill , with its fair share of graphics enhancement . Initially I thought that from the trailer , it looked like a carbon copy of Constantine's Hell sequence , but I was wrong , and I'm still amazed by Thailand's advancement in post production and computer wizardry competency - simply awesome . Stunning effects aside , the story progressed more into the thriller and mystery realms , tracking Ting Yin's desperation to escape from this unreal world , back to her own . It's like Alice in Wonderland , except that this is no childlike fantasy world with danger lurking at every corner . For those who have enjoyed Neil Gaiman's Mirrormask , this movie's story threads along the same lines in having the protagonist seeking an escape , while going from scene to scene , and place to place , encountering weird surreal locations , and different , out of this world characters . For those who disliked or found the narrative style of Mirrormask wanting , you might feel the same about Re-Cycle too . However , there is a strong , rational theme unifying these seeming disparate scenes and events . They're not just pretty for the sake of being pretty to look at , but ring home the obvious message on abandonment , through the plot device of re-cycling . Many strange scenes are crafted from this message , while at the same time , bringing a sense of familiarity for an audience to identify with . Therein lies the strength of this movie . Angelica Lee had plenty of room to showcase her acting skills - being frightened to her wits end , sharing emotional scenes , smelling of desperation or be it in a state of bewilderment , she carries the movie forward aptly , despite slower moments during certain sequences . My initial thoughts about the movie were not flattering , choosing to harp on the nicely done , yet familiar special effects , and scenes which were somewhat familiar in some other movies . But having pondered a little more into the storyline , I thought it was quite neat , and if not for the spooky introduction , I might just want to watch this movie again .
A Nutshell Review : F .	F . ' s World Premiere at the Goethe Institut opened the Free Programme , and the SIFF itself . As Philip Cheah puts it , there's a significance to this 60 minute documentary opening the festival , as the film's subject Toh Hai Leong has for many years , saw himself as the local flipside to Rainer Werner Fassbinder , whose movies will be screened for free at this year's SIFF at the Goethe Institut . And no doubt , gathered around for this event , were many recognizable folks involved in the local film industry , from Eric Khoo to Ben Slater . I first came to know of Toh Hai Leong through his mockumentary Zombie Dogs , which I saw almost two years ago during the Screen Singapore Festival , and I thought , this is a very peculiar director . In person , I've seen him a couple of times at various screenings , but never mustered the courage to speak with him . I thought he was a little eccentric , but one who never minces his words , and you'll know he's in the house for that unmistakable baritone voice booming from across a screening hall , sharing insights be it to film , or current affairs . Over time I've learnt that he was once a film critic , and was the secretary of the Singapore Film Society ( SFS ) . And this documentary essentially provided a broad outline to Toh's life , and focused on the recent stage where he fought with Type 2 diabetes . Director Chew Tze Chuan had introduced the documentary as not the final cut he had in mind , but close , and there is nothing too sophisticated about the technical aspects used for this documentary , in what's basically a homage , and tribute to a man who's a walking encyclopedia , and whose career had seen him become a librarian , film buff , film critic , director , flea market operator , and even a food center cleaner ! Through interviews with Ben Slater , Yuni Hadi , Kenneth Tan , Wee Li Lin , Wong Lung Hsiang and more , we come to learn different facets of Toh , and how he had in his unique ways , influenced and left deep impressions , from simple and little gestures , to passionate action and dedication he has for his craft , and especially during his days as the secretary of SFS , and all the while staying humble to his achievements . In what I thought was lacking , were more in-depth exploration into what made Toh tick , though there was a very casual fleeting moment where he discusses his love life . But what Chew managed to capture vividly was one man's harrowing descent into losing the will to fight the disease he's inflicted with , and I unabashedly say I was indeed shocked to see how Toh was reduced to skin and bones ( almost like a POW ) , and how he had to bear with the symptoms of the disease , including uncontrollable bladder movements . I'm glad to say that Toh is on the road to recovery , and has put on weight ( and hair too ! ) when he appeared before the audience to share a few words . The flow of the documentary is easy to follow , with the usual talking heads introducing Toh at various stages of his life . And for those who have not seen his directorial effort Zombie Dogs , you'll get to see snippets of the movie in F . too . And I thought Toh , despite his illness , had not lost an iota of his acerbic wit , bringing memories of his verbal barrage ability when he rattles on subjects that touch close to his heart . Played to a packed theaterette ( there were people standing along the sides , and sitting on the floor ) , do watch this documentary if you're curious to know about an enigma in the local film scene . You'll probably come away with a better understanding , and take away for a fact that life is fragile , and to make the best out of it .
A Nutshell Review : Traitor	It sure took a long time for this film to debut here , and if memory serves me right , it took almost a year , and the DVD has already been released . If not for a press screening already held , I would have thought that the film would be one of those that are difficult to pass by the censors and required some lengthy debate as to the merits for its theatrical release . That's because it deals with the current topic of terrorism in an unflinching manner , with the hijacking of religion to further the terrorists ' extremist and violent ends being told in a style yet unseen from films such as The Kingdom , Syriana , The Siege and Body of Lies , to name but a few films dealing with the topic . I am a keen admirer of Don Cheadle's film performance , especially in dramatic roles , and here he plays Samir Horn , a devout Muslim and US citizen caught up in a web of intrigue and international terrorism acts . We see how he employs his skills of bomb-making , honed from his US Special Operations days as an officer , and seemingly looks like a rogue , US domestic terrorist aiding foreign groups in their operations to harm the world . But there's more than meets the eye to Samir , and here's where Cheadle excels in putting that level of ambiguity into a role that raises moral questions about doing something for the " greater good " , no matter the costs . Chasing him around the world are FBI counter-terrorism agents Roy Clayton ( Guy Pearce ) and Max Archer ( Neal McDonough ) , who are clearly like fish out of water when operating outside their legal jurisdictions . Unfortunately for the two actors , their roles here as the downright good guys are always a step or two behind the terrorist cells , which in some ways mirror that in real life . Without good intelligence , you're always reactive , and it takes a lot to be on top of the game , especially when tactics employed are normally innovately discharged . We get to see a number of " no-brainer " tactics that the cells employ which are effective if you think about it , which makes it all the more dangerous should they be used because they actually can be . But the most dangerous game to be playing from the side of the good guys , is the refusal to share intelligence or to combine resource , drawing lines in the sand and setting up turfs . The bickering between agencies all point to missing out on the bigger picture on one hand , while on the other the need for confidentiality also brings up operational sensitivity in order not to jeopardize any current missions , and this need to know service also stems from being overly cautious of any internal moles that would betray efforts in progress . In some ways , this is like Infernal Affairs being played all over again . I suppose that without the balanced view and very verbatim statements made toward the end renouncing violence and misguided teachings , this film would probably not be given the green light . But it did , and presented a very though provoking thinking man's action thriller set in this age of cloak and dagger terrorism . Sure it has some loopholes and the unnecessary ( and unavoidable ) collateral damage , but watch this for the performance all round and an engaging storyline that might not keep you guessing all the way once the cat is out of the bag , but does enough .
A Nutshell Review : Robocon ( Robokon )	Robocon is today's third movie , and the most satisfying one of the day's selection . Written and directed by Tomoyuki Furumaya , this movie's premise allowed for a sneak peek into one of Japan's many robotic competitions . The pretty Masami Nagasawa ( last seen in Crying Out Love at the Center of the World ) stars as lazy girl Satomi , who got assigned a stint , against her wishes , at her school's Robot Club . However , it's not the premiere club that she got assigned to , but the " B " team where the team members are hardly cooperative , made up of a motley bunch of losers . There's the ineffective soft spoken captain of the team , the genius arrogant designer , and a technician who dropped out but decided to join them again when the team had inexplicably entered the Nationals through a technicality . Her role in the team ? She's the designated driver , the operator of the machine , needing to learn how to be one with the robot through the use of the remote control . In the spirit of the theme of this year's film festival , naturally a whole section of the movie has put focus on how this group of students undergo boot camp - in a training regime at a beach resort - to build camaraderie , trust and friendship as they spend their off hours in designing and fine tuning their prototype YET-13 , into Boxhund , their entry for the finals . It's like a coming of age movie , with the characters developing skill sets , and in the further discovery of their strengths and weaknesses , combined with their willingness to change for the better , not just for themselves , but for the team . Although the narrative's pretty straightforward , it managed to create a sense of tension and a highly charged environment as our team challenges their competition through various round robin stages , and it is this part of the film that showcased the innovation and ideas of some of the robots , their wacky designs , and various functionalities . It's not easy just to build the robot , but how to maintain it through various stages , to think on your feet to solve technological challenges and the need for maintenance under time limit . Also , it takes a lot of with to try and outplay the competition , and every stage of the competition , just brings about the right amount of challenges , strategies , and how they are overcome . You'll also come to appreciate many of the rules put in place for the competition , and probably will pique your interest to learn a lot more . This is a highly recommended film , and I suspect it is already amongst the movies that I'll come to enjoy from the festival .
A Nutshell Review : Scream ( DVD 1996 )	It actually took me 9 years to finally watch this slasher flick classic , and I'm now kicking my rear that I should've watched it when it premiered in local theatres back then . Credited as sparking off a slew of copycat slasher films in the late 90s , and reintroducing Wes Craven to a whole new generation , Scream will remain an important milestone for the horror-slasher genre . Starring a relatively young and unknown ( then ) cast , Drew Barrymore opens in what is probably the most recognizable start to a horror movie , with her demise after being caught in a cat-and-mouse telephone call with the primary killer in the movie , a psychopath who dons the Halloween " Scream " costume . That famous opening aside , Neve Campbell plays the main lead Sydney , a student who's now the new target of the killer . Given her complicated background of having her mom killed about a year ago , she is spooked by the fact that she could have sentenced the wrong killer to prison , and the real one is still out there , stalking her . As with slasher movies , her group of friends become suspects and cannon fodder for the killer . What works is that although the cast is huge , and almost everyone is a suspect ! The film doesn't let off throwing at you the red herrings , making you wonder what could be , and if it is . Looking at the film , the killer is not the invulnerable being that always gets his prey . Here , he does get hit and attacked , which adds a totally new , believable dimension towards the instinct for survival . Also , there are tons of movie references which will keep every movie buff totally happy and jumping with glee at identifying them . I'd like the part where one of the characters laid down the 3 rules of horror films : Never have sex because only virgins survive , never smoke or drink , and never say " I'll be back " , because you won't . Sort of summarizes every horror movie out there , doesn't it ? And the ending totally rocks . The script is intelligent ( for a horror-slasher movie ) , and will catch you off guard , if you haven't been reading anything to spoil the movie , after 9 long years . Sadly , this Code 3 DVD contains no extras besides the norm of scene selection and subtitles . Pity .
A Nutshell Review : Suspect X	I have mulled over the story for a bit , and while I'm fairly convinced in the way it presented itself to stay true to its theme , I can't help but feel that I'm still suckered into feeling the same way as the cops do , in being made to see things from one singular point of view just because the logic points itself that way conveniently , rather than to peek around the corner and see it under a different light . But if you believe and buy into its idea and rationale , then Suspect X's story would appeal to you definitely . Which is the power of love , which by itself causes one to do irrational things . I won't refute the point though , because otherwise we won't see florists making a killing during the already - so - commercialized - it's - meaningless Valentine's day . To make its point , we have someone who's highly logical in manners , demeanour and genetic makeup , to undergo a transformation due to being struck by cupid's arrow . But does this irrationality extend to assisting and becoming an accessory to murder ? One can only wonder . That in itself is the issue that one has to buy into , in order to enjoy the film . A murder is committed by a single mother and child , and because he is smitten with his love for that single mother , mathematics genius and professor Tetsuya Ishigami ( Shinichi Tsutsumi ) helps them by applying deep logic into the creation of alibis , and instructing them with pinpoint accuracy , their behaviour , answers and such when the police come knocking on their door . There's a twist to it all of course , but it's more akin to the treatment as seen in Confessions of Pain , where the extent of the killings had its hand shown early in the film , so those looking for a whodunnit , or an investigative crime drama where the investigators get stumped , would be expecting a totally different film altogether . Instead , the story goes behind and looks at motivation . The deed is done , but the mystery here is the Why , and here's where help to the cops , come in the form of expert physicist Galileo Yukawa ( Fukuyama Masaharu ) . The opening scene that set the stage had actually piqued my interest , as we see a classroom experiment seamlessly transition into a full scale , military styled showcase . Unfortunately , that's just one of the better parts of the film in terms of using scientific knowledge to help solve crimes . Unlike L in The Death Note series , the intelligence quotient here has some real world links ( hey it's physics after all ) , and our hero has zero affiliation with law enforcement , helping only because of the challenge the situation posed . Don't expect some heavy theorems being thrown at your face , as the story smartly avoids situations to alienate its audience . In fact , what it boiled down to , was succinctly summarized in one line where two friendly adversaries face off with each other across a road . The question posed was which side each of them was on , whether one would prefer to create the perfect , unsolvable puzzle , or to be the one who can solve the unsolvable puzzle , where for both there is an answer to . To that , the setting of the stage , and the throwing of the gauntlet , I have to salute how director Hiroshi Nishitani had it all planned out and delivered . Something that disturbed me a little during the film , was the not too subtle sexual discrimination against the female cop Kaoru Utsumi . A prime suspect is referred to as sexy ( though I have to admit Yasuko HanaokaXXX does look attractive , being cast as a bar hostess ) , but the more surprising one , was how the cops in the department were pushing Kaoru around , often referring her to do some menial tasks like fetching coffee , or ridiculed against when she came across as unprepared . There wasn't any statement made about it , but happened more as a matter-of-fact . Perhaps to echo some sentiments that such discrimination still happens ? As mentioned , it took me a while to mull upon the film , looking at it from a separate angle than I first had when the end credits roll . I may not had subscribed to the plausibility of how love can affect oneself to do silly things , to the extreme as that in the story , but I suppose it can happen given many crimes of passion that we read about from time to time , and with the little nugget of wonders that happen at sporadic intervals throughout , I'm come to the verdict that Suspect X is still worth your while . Just chuck that expectation of a whodunnit-mystery - thriller at the door .
A Nutshell Review : Kung Fu Dunk	This project was originally conceived as the movie version of popular Japanese manga SlamDunk ! and that's not something new to Jay Chou , who made his movie debut playing a character from another wildly popular manga Initial D . Along the way , it was decided to incorporate some kung fu into the movie , so hence the title , even if the idea wasn't very original , with Stephen Chow's Shaolin Soccer coming to mind with martial arts and ball games combined . However , and thankfully , those scenes where kung fu actually influenced the games were kept to a bare minimum , and in Kung Fu Dunk , really quite unnecessary , because they don't add much to the plot nor drum up much excitement , and at most offered some cheap laughs and reminisced about the time when Stephen Chow used kung fu in football games . Jay Chou is comfortable in his role as a martial artist Fang Shi-jie since it's not the first time he fought using martial arts ( Curse of the Golden Flower anyone ? ) , and under the stunt direction of Ching Siu-Tung , he was made to look really believable as he trashes countless of gangsters in a bar as seen in the trailer , just to let you know who's boss . That was almost why his character is made a kung fu practitioner , and for the fact of giving him an excuse for being a top shot , able to shoot the hoops from practically any angle . And with Eric Tsang as a small time hustler Chen-Li who sees his potential and becomes his agent , he joins a university to play varsity basketball , but not without the initial objection of team captain Ting-wei ( Chen Bo-Lin ) and team star Xiao-lan ( Baron Chen , in his big-screen debut ) . But you know with team members on the same side , it's not before long they combine their strengths to take on adversaries on the basketball court . And I will stick my neck out to say that this movie is to basketball just as how Goal was to football . It made the sport look good because of its charismatic characters , despite them dripping so much coolness and aloofness on the courts . Here , special effects and wire-work were employed to make the actors seem like professionals who can take out a top side in the NBA league , and in all honesty , really looked stunning , especially when they mimic various dunking moves , and performing combo-moves thanks to technology and stunt work . So in actuality , the kung fu elements don't really have to be in the movie . The stunt work itself will be able to justify most of the moves as they're quite grounded to reality , only having you to suspend belief that boys of average height have springs in their feet to leap that height for a professional dunk . Pity too that the number of games were only a handful , with the time spent on plenty of subplots , but each were loosely developed and flitted in and out of the story as and when they please . Things like the abandoned Shi-jie's quest to use the basketball games to get his parents to one day attend them , that of gangsterism penetrating and influencing games , and his love life with Charlene Choi in yet another flower vase role just to look good and do nothing else . Everyone's acting a little too cool , leaving little room for main characters to add depth . One of the key themes here is the realization of the importance of teamwork rather than on individual talent and ability , and it could have been brought out much stronger if the players themselves interacted a lot more off the court , than only on it , and during competitive games , apart from the high-fives and friendly passes . With the US$10 million budget , it is easy to see where the money went to - the effects , in particular , a massive fantasy sequence at a crucial point in the movie . It's quite flawless , nice to look at and probably justifiable on its quality alone , but again I like to emphasize , that even without those elements , the basketball stunts itself would still make this a decent movie with nifty basketball moves . And having Jay Chou playing for your team is a big boost to any hopes of a box office success .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Proof of Life ( 2000 )	What happens in real life will inevitably have an effect on the reel one . Tom Cruise learnt that with his strange antics in real life - his screen one suffered with a less than expected stellar box office for M : I : 3 despite positive critical reviews . Way back in 2000 , Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan learnt that too , with their rumoured romance while shooting this movie , one of the many reasons resulting in this becoming a box office bomb . I felt that it was not a bad movie actually , given the story which I found interesting in the first place , for its extremely distant relation to what I'm doing , and being an action adventure movie , it works with its fair share of big action sequences . Russell Crowe plays Terry Thorne , a consultant in the Security and Crisis Response Unit of Luthan Risk International . His job is to negotiate the safe return of Kidnap and Ransom ( K & R ) victims around the world , and of course , this brings him frequently to where the action is , during the payment of ransoms and the extraction of hostages . He yearns for a management role , but as always , if you're an excellent field operative , you're played to your strengths out there . Which brings him to his latest client , Meg Ryan's Alice Bowman , whose husband Peter Bowman ( David Morse ) , an employee with the biggest international oil firmed , gets kidnapped by chance during a raid in Ecuador . There are numerous scenes in the movie to perk your interest in this much behind-the-scenes industry of K & R , the terrorist ( ? ) groups ' motivation , and how the entire business is conducted , with the engagement of peers as well as the involvement of shady government personnel . There are many fine touches that might go unnoticed , like how network of contacts and peers are milked , cooperation extended , the wheelings and dealings of large multinational corporations , and politics in general . But the focus moves quickly towards a micro one , that between Thorne and Alice Bowman , as he accomplishes to build her trust in him that he's the best in the business and knows what he's doing . Perhaps this is one of the rare movies that allowed Crowe to be an Australian ( and keep the accent ) in a Hollywood production . His Thorne is oozes enough machismo to carry the action through and is credible enough to be believed as a veteran in the business . Meg Ryan this time round has a more serious character to play , albeit at times a weepie one , steering well clear of the pretty ditzy blonde comedic roles she has become accustomed to . They had probably shot some love scenes for this movie , but I suppose the bad press resulted in those scenes ending up on the cutting room floor . The romance between the character was also almost squashed out , save for the out of place suggestion of a strong physical attraction which rears its ugly head in the second half of the movie , slowing the pace down a little without much mature development . I thought that should it had been removed entirely , it'll probably end up a stronger movie , with Thorne more in character as a mission driven individual . The first David , David Caruso , is finding a new lease of life back in television with CSI , since branching off to movies after NYPD Blue didn't augur too well for him . I thought his performance here was nothing much to shout about though . However David Morse , who usually plays supporting roles , put up an adequately engaging Peter Bowman as an executive caught in the wrong place at the wrong time , and examines the fear and desperation of a man kidnapped and constantly at the wrong end of a gun barrel . The theme song by Danny Elfman is addictive ( time to hunt it down ) , and the end credits was played over a helicopter view of the entire Ecuadorian landscape , just beautiful to look at . Clocking at just over 2 hours , it provided some good entertainment for a lazy Sunday afternoon . Code 3 DVD contains the behind the scenes making-of documentary ( 13 " 40 ' ) , the theatrical trailer , and the feature length audio commentary by director Taylor Hackford .
A Nutshell Review : Pretty Persuasion	I kinda liked this film for almost all the wrong reasons . It's politically incorrect and doesn't make any apologies for doing so , but yet demonstrates a notion that we can be bigots , and yet not be consciously aware of it . After all , it's what has already been internalized , but it becomes exposed quite naturally through our actions and dialogue . Evan Rachel Wood is the star of the movie . As Kimberly Joyce , she's the high school frat girl like Alicia Silverstone's Cher in Clueless , but in terms of character , she's on the other side of the spectrum . Way on the other side . She's looking for fame , and would do absolutely anything to obtain her 15 minutes worth . She's a temptress , a seductress , highly intelligent , and so manipulative , she can stab you in the back while smiling in front of you , with you none the wiser and probably still worshipping the ground she treads on . Which brings us back to the title , and makes you wonder if beautiful people can get away with almost anything . I guess it's probably almost human nature to be enchanted by the pretties , and anyone would most likely be lapping up at anything they say . It doesn't take much for a beautiful bitch to realize the power she wields on men who are drunk in her aura , and then to exploit this weakness of people around her . There are two more key reasons why I enjoyed the movie , besides being enchanted myself by the Kimberly character . The first is the dialogue in the movie - there's so much wit , and it's fast and laced with plenty of double entrées and satire , delivered in a deadpan manner by Rachel Wood no less , you would likely need to re-watch it again to grasp them all . The second is having Kimberly chaperon a newbie in school , an Arab girl called Randa ( Adi Schnall ) , raising some eyebrows as the religious girl gets exposed to pop culture and blatant insensitive racists remarks , and inevitably too becomes a pawn in the whole scheme of things , as does Kimberly's best friend Brittany ( Elisabeth Harnois ) discover that it's not always fine and dandy being the hunter , as there is always something or someone else higher above in the food chain . The host of supporting characters raised the movie to another notch . James Woods shines as the foul mouthed father of Kimberly , who sprouts words of wisdom peppered with colourful vulgar , racist remarks . Jamie King completes the household as the long suffering trophy wife / stepmother in the Joyce household , constantly bearing the brunt of insults hurled at her by Kimberly . At school , we have Ron Livingston as Percy Anderson , as the meek and mild mannered school teacher who indulges in role-playing games with the wife at home ( Selma Blair ) , and inadvertently becomes the target and public enemy # 1 of Kimberly and friends . And Jane Krakowski in a bimbotic role , stars as a news reporter who finds it increasingly difficult to stay objective when covering possibly the juiciest scandal to hit town . There's a sub theme running that touches on " saving face " , which is an issue to the successful in ensuring that their reputation does not get tarnished in the face of scandals , and is a trait that most Asians are familiar with . It's important that face is not ruined easily by careless actions , as face is something that is most difficult to build in an environment of shame . Having lost face and losing the faith to rebuild it , can lead people to an untimely sad demise . So if you're up for some scheming betrayal , and plenty of slimy tactics , if you want to observe how seemingly good intentions are actually poisoned barbs that kill slowly , then I hope I've already persuaded you enough to watch this flick .
A Nutshell Review : The Intimate	If I were to summarize this movie in a few words , this would be it : Serendipity with plenty of sex . Telling a story of two strangers who meet by chance in an elevator , The Intimate follows their journey through the day and night ( which doesn't seem to end by the way ) , as they discover about each other , and about themselves in the process . Kinda like Before Sunrise in its treatment , the lovers , nameless except known as Boy ( Jo Dong-Hyuk ) and Girl ( Sung Hyun - Ah ) , play the usual courtship mind games , playing coy , being aggressive , taking turns to bust each others chops as they fall into each other's arms . Sounds like your typical romance movie , no ? At certain points the usual elements are there , like plot devices romanticizing a bench and hand drawn pictures , and the mushy things lovers whisper to the ears of another . Clichéd highlights include one needing to leave the country the next day , and the other being engaged to someone else , and now both of them , by Fate , are presented a chance to do something totally different . But in this story , it managed to take aged old questions of doubt , and weave a compelling movie around them . The basic question will be what is love . Is it supposed to be long drawn and lasting a lifetime , or is the feeling actually made up of short passionate bursts ? And after being with someone for so long , is it a question of being afraid to leave the comfort zone of familiarity , or does it boil down truly to faithfulness ? The nagging fear of being about to marry someone , and then you meet your soulmate - what do you do ? Blame the person for turning up in your life too late ? And it is somehow true that the longer you know someone , the more faults that you will find , and the question is , will you be able to live with those faults , or do you prefer to live in that constant crest of emotional highs and bailing out when the slightest inclination of such faults start to rear its head ? It helps that both leads are eye-candy , as they offer you a chance to answer some of those questions yourself if you were to put yourselves in their shoes and be offered the same set of temptations - here's what you currently have , and here's what someone else can offer . What would you do ? If there is a gripe , it'll be the one-dimensional fiancé that somehow has to be demonized in order to make the other option all the more appealing . It's a relatively engaging movie , though watching the out takes while the end credits rolled made you appreciate the movie's direction a little more . While those scenes which were left out may be seen as more interesting , somehow I felt it would have disrupted the pace and dragged events rather than having it all compacted into a screen duration of 24 hours . It would have been a totally different look and feel altogether , but probably not for the better .
A Nutshell Review : The Passenger	I guess from time to time we've considered the notion of assuming someone else's identity , and wondered what life would be like if we were somebody else . Usually , we adopt from someone we already know of , or perceive to know , and chances are their predicament should be something more positive than what we are experiencing with our current selves . But what if it's someone else whom you have totally no clue who they are , or worse , leading a life that you won't want to touch with a 10 foot pole ? A very young , buff and rugged looking Jack Nicholson stars as the reporter David Locke in Michelangelo Antonioni's Professione : Reporter , and he's the titular character whose reporting career doesn't seem to get anywhere . Stuck in an unwanted assignment somewhere in Africa , he struggles to find some semblance of a life , getting increasingly frustrated with the lack of communication with the locals because of language skills , where the currency of choice happens to be cigarettes , and con-artists and incompetence seem everywhere . Like Antonioni's Le Amiche , he returns to his hotel only to find that the next door guest had passed away . In a moment of opportunity and without much thought , he trades identity with the guest , and in that case , fakes his own death . So you would expect friends and family members becoming concerned with the circumstances , not that the wife ( played by Jenny Runacre ) was an angel to begin with , and so begins a wild goose chase where they try and track him down when they realize that there was a possibility of an identity mix up , but more so , why he had wanted to assume another identity . In true Antonioni style , this is not a concern , as we follow in Il Grido fashion where the protagonist runs away from the life behind him , the new life of David Locke as he wanders from point to point , as he slowly learns that his born again life comes with many dangerous strings attached , and becomes romantically involved with an architectural student ( Maria Schneider ) , intriguing her with his supposed links with weapons smugglers , spies and rebel fighters , like Doc Brown who got entangled with Iranians in Back to The Future . Most of the story was filmed in Barcelona , and having appointments already pre-arranged by his predecessor makes it all the more easy for David to flit from site to site , each time getting a little bit more dangerous than the previous . I guess Jack Nicholson is as Jack Nicholson does , while he gives a relatively more subdued performance than we know what he's capable of , it's still no less than an arresting performance as he brings us on this journey to the big unknown . The much talked about climax which consists of a 7 minute single take remains as enigmatic as it is , which unveils a lot with numerous events happening at the same time , and which can be interpreted either way . Technically , the first 10 minutes or so of the movie suffered from bad audio which sounded quite airy , and for some documentary like sections , some aspect ratio differences were noticed . But that's just nit-picking on my part . Perhaps one of the more accessible Antonioni movies in his filmography , no doubt made more interesting with Nicholson in the lead , and that payoff right at the end . The screening concluded with a 12 minute documentary called The Last Sequence of The Passenger , which is a deconstruction of that fascinating sequence none other than Antonioni himself , in an interview . Here , he explains it in a little bit more detail , and shares with the audience how the shot was technically conceived and executed . As if like a DVD commentary , you can't have it any better than this with Antonioni providing the detail required as it is , and the gem is always of course having him bring us through his thought process .
A Nutshell Review : ( VCD ) Rabun ( 2003 )	While awaiting the premiere of Mukhsin here , it's by incredible luck that I've managed to locate the Rabun VCD , and have the opportunity to watch writer-director Yasmin Ahmad's first feature length movie , after having enjoyed Sepet and Gubra so much , with the former still my personal # 1 favourite movie . The story is clearly an ode to Yasmin's parents , as the focus is squarely on the on screen version of Pak Atan ( M Rajoli ) and Mak Inom ( Kartina Aziz ) . It's a simple heartfelt story on the elderly folks as they journey out from the city to the village , where life is perceived to be easier , the neighbours nicer , and the environment just less complicated . But a series of events force them to rethink these assumptions , especially after interactions with Yem and his stepmother . What raised some eyebrows as personified by the Yasin character , is the observation of how love is professed amongst Pak and Mak . I don't see any qualms about them showering together , or tickling each other , but these are a flavour of some of the scenes in Sepet which got cut . Perhaps , like Yasin , some folks do take a while to get used to these lovey-dovey elements being portrayed , if one adopts a more conservative stand and freak out in knowing their elderly parents still make love . The cinematic style used in Rabun is clearly not the usual , with dialogue said without being seen , with the camera rarely moving , plenty of static shots or just the absence of close ups at times , preferring to film the scene from afar . As in Yasmin's later movies , Rabun is filled with an excellent soundtrack of music from everywhere , and I like that psychedelic sounding Thai music used , as well as the song used for the opening credits . In the world that Yasmin weaved in her movies , although the names of the characters are the same ( Orked's family ) , the movies feel related to one another , but not in the most direct of ways . You could force Rabun to be positioned much after the sequence of events in Gubra , but then again it somehow doesn't seem quite right . However , because the source and inspiration is the same , the characteristics of Pak and Mak do come across in similar fashion , no matter which movies , but as of now , I still prefer the Harith-Iskander-Ida-Nerina pairing . Look out for familiar faces playing different roles in Rabun and Gubra too ! Being Yasmin's first movie , I would like to think of Rabun as being the melting pot of ideas . Like how the character of Elvis ( played by Malaysian director Ho Yuhang ) , a Chinese guy explaining his fear of marrying a Muslim girl ( inter-racial romance in Sepet ) , certain touching dialogue making their way to the later films , said by the same characters , or a precursor to certain events that are played out in more detail ( Pak's illness in Gubra ) . For some reason I can't hold my enthusiasm when I saw Pak and Mak riding on a bicycle , a scene which we'll see with the young Mukhsin and Orked . And yes , I've finally seen the kuching berak ! : - D P . S . I'm still not quite satisfied with watching this once , will probably watch it again soon enough . And I lament that I'm probably missing quite a bit as certain lengthy dialogue were summarized in the English subtitles . I also suspect that there is more beneath the surface because it's hard to believe it's so deceptively simple , but I just can't articulate it properly after one viewing .
A Nutshell Review : The Beetle	I guess you'd never know how much distance one's nostalgia and sentimentalism will take you . It could be bordering on obsession , but for filmmaker Yishai Orian , his love for his banged up , 40 year old Volkswagon Beetle knows no bounds , and this film is perhaps testament toward that love . Unhappy of course is his wife Eliraz , being driven around in a heap of junk on the verge of breaking down ever so often , and more worried about the baby on the way , hoping that Yishai would place priority on family and safety . Alas it seemed that such hope gets thrown out the window when Yishai decides to embark on a road trip to neighbouring Arab neighbour Jordan , based on rumours that it would logically be cheaper to repair his car there , and given the garage engineers also being more willing to do so after being turned down by so many on his home soil . And to add to the dilemma , he has to decide whether to use his savings to repair his Beetle , or to invest it on a high-tech pram . No guesses which he will decide , and whether the wifey is pleased with his final decision , which I think is how most domestic disagreement will come about ? with the man wanting to invest in his hobby and his other half thinking that he's not placing his priorities in life right . For those who has little knowledge on the not too subtle beginnings of the Beetle , it actually had some Nazi Germany roots when Adolf Hitler commissioned it as a cost-effective model for mass production . Hence the vehicle is born , and little would anyone realize that Israel would be more than willing to import a vehicle with such a beginning . But it did , and so we learn little anecdotes from past owners that Yishai managed to track down , for them to share memorable stories about their respective time with the vehicle that he's driving around now . Some of these are incredible , unbelievable even , but they did happen , and it only goes to show how much history can be packed into something that's almost half a century old . The road trip to Jordan opened up more memorable stories to tell , emphasizing that it's indeed a world without strangers , especially when it's out of compassion that one helps out a complete stranger from the other side of the border . While it's still a financial transaction , I think one appreciates the help that one had obtained , and from there build on some genuine friendships which extended even after the bill had been presented . Talk about having after a fine sales service ! And for Yishal's own personal memoirs , having time spent with Salam , a Jordanian child , also reinforced his beliefs about fatherhood and helped to allay some fears of real adulthood , and responsibility toward his own child in time to come . It's a delightful comedic documentary that doesn't try to hard to bring on the laughs . It's quite an honest piece of work in balancing one's primary loves in life , for Yishai's case the affection for his vehicle and that feeling of being responsible for those past productive years of his Beetle , having seen the smiles worn by its ex-owners , and that of his current family . Let's hope that seriously is some more significant mileage left in that piece of German engineering !
A Nutshell Review : Across the Universe	Viva la Beatles ! We're familiar with the many musicals that have come out of late , either being remade from stage to screen , or updated for today's era , the latest being Hairspray . And a musical made up entirely of songs by the Beatles , but not sung by the Beatles themselves ? While it is easy to make a movie based on songs by the " it " group of the time ( Spice World anyone ? ) and starring the singers themselves so that there won't be a nightmare in casting actors who can sing , or worse , start to mutilate the lyrics , how about throwing that mantra out of the window ? Across the Universe does exactly that . Who would've thought that the discography of the Beatles , diverse as they may be , could have a multitude of songs chosen , and strung together so nicely that it makes for a coherent musical all through 130 odd minutes of the story ? I thought it worked , and worked perfectly , and what came out of it are pretty kooky song and dance sequences that had everything thrown in from slick editing to psychedelic animation . Best of all , the cast members themselves lend their vocals , albeit having the music tweaked a little so that it doesn't sound exactly the same as having a collection of the Beatles ' greatest hits being popped into a CD and played ad nauseum . Set during the era of the Beatles themselves , Across the Universe is set mainly across the Atlantic in 60s USA , where the Vietnam War is abound . We're introduced to Jude ( convenient name to make you wait up for the inevitable song , as with the other names ) , played by Jim Sturgess , a Liverpool ( heh ) dock worker who gets himself to the USA in search of his long lost dad . He meets Max Carrigan ( Joe Anderson ) with whom he becomes fast friends with , and falls in love with his sister Lucy ( Evan Rachel Wood ) , a schoolgirl who had just lost her first boyfriend to the war . The movie is a simple tale of romance between two lovebirds , and you'd come to expect the usual boy - meets - girl - loses - girl - gets - girl - back routine , but what works is of course , the music by the Beatles . Adding texture and layer to the movie were the various subplots which had another relationship running parallel to that of Jude and Lucy's - their landlady Sadie ( Dana Fuchs ) , who is a rock musician , and her guitarist JoJo ( Martin Luther McCoy ) , as they call Come Together under one big roof , settling in a Bohemien lifestyle , which suits Jude's artistic talents just so nicely . It had plenty of loving , but conspicuously absent , and for the better , is drugs , except for a surreal underwater scene , and some really insane moments inside a big top , complete with wacky animation . What I thought the movie had taken a leaf out of Citizen Dog's was how love progressed and reached the doldrums , against the backdrop of the opposition to the War . While films like Born on the Fourth of July had very powerful statements to make , Across the Universe sort of adopted the stance that Forrest Gump had , with the love of Jude's life joining the opposition cause , much to his displeasure and becomes a barrier , but can't do anything much about it anyway , allowing unnecessary jealousy to come in between them , which became " I told you so " . Director Julie Taymor had an excellent cast to work with , not only do they sing well , but they brought out their characters perfectly . Evan Rachel Wood excelled as the teenage wide-eyed schoolgirl to whom we were introduced , who slowly turns to one with steely resolve , Jim Sturgess as the likable English bloke who stands witness to the tumultuous era that the US goes through , and microscopically , turns from a bastardly Dong Juan back home to monogamous Romeo in the US , but the one who takes the cake , is Joe Anderson's Max , who lives life with an immortal , youthful idealism , who goes where the wind takes him , until his dropping out of an ivy league college meant receiving the Draft , in one really hilarious sequence with Uncle Sam . All in , I can't vouch that the story will set to wow , but the songs , thank goodness for the Beatles , more than makes up for the cliché which goes straight through to the end . True Beatles fans will find tons of references not only from the songs , but from the various easter eggs scattered everywhere in the movie . They are really going to have a field day with this one . Viva la Beatles !
A Nutshell Review : Nada So So	Nada So So , loosely translated as Tears For You , broke box office records in Japan last year . It's a romance story , so its box office clout is no surprise , especially when starring teenage idols Satoshi Tsumabuki ( The Waterboys ) and Masami Nagasawa ( Crying Out Love from the Center of the World , Robocon ) . Given the screening I attended today was a full house , and almost everyone female , I guess I'm one of the rare few in the theatre who's there to watch Masami in her new movie , as I confess I'm totally smitten by that sunshine smile of hers . Directed by Nobuhiro Doi , who helmed one of my favourite movies of 2005 - Be With You , Nada So So tells the story of the Shingaki siblings - Yota ( Satoshi ) and Kaoru ( Masami ) . Left to fend for themselves at a very young age as their father had abandoned them , and their mom left for the heavens , these two half-siblings have only each other , with Yota taking on a surrogate father-like role in looking after Kaoru , working intense shifts and different jobs in order to pay for her education . As vowed on their mother's deathbed , he is obligated to provide the best for her , and does so almost to the extreme . It serves as a reminder not to overwork oneself , and to take time to smell the roses . Kaoru , having been brought up in a small island , makes it to the mainland in Okinawa , and her physical presence in her brother's life brings about an added dimension to her brother's love life with girlfriend Keiko ( Kumiko Aso ) . You see , while they are siblings , they aren't blood relations , and therefore to some , there are some ( sexual ) tensions between the two although they would like to discount it . People around them do feel , and while it's against natural order to those who are unaware of the true nature of their relations , these two do keep their feelings well under wraps . In fact , there's nothing too " wow " about the narrative , as any seasoned romantic film lover will be able to stay one or two steps well ahead of the story development . I'd come to think that the formula has been so tried and tested , anyone can transplant similar stories , with just an update in setting , premise , having different characters , and tada , a new movie . Okinawa provides plenty of picturesque scenes for the movie , and they are well utilized . Both Satoshi Tsumabuki and Masami Nagasawa bring vivid credibility to their characters , layering them with as much complexities as possible , often done through subtle gestures - that twinkle in the eye , that wry smile . Their chemistry as siblings is totally believable , as are their feelings for each other which they try desperately hard to hide . They make it believable for an audience to sympathize with their predicament , and showcased their ability to exhibit their brotherly-sisterly love for each other , as well as their attempts to hide behind veiled confessions and declarations . This might be a biased statement - but I thought Masami shuttled her Kaoru character with ease , between country bumpkin and smart sister , between that smiling happy girl and that sad depressing feeling of not being able to love someone the way she wants to . As always , there are numerous opportunities about for anyone soft hearted enough to fall prey to emptying their tear ducts from sad scenes , or scenes that want to elicit that response from you , so bring along some Kleenex just in case . In the screening I attended , there was no lack of sniffles and sobs heard all around . Do remember to stay throughout the end credits , as the theme song gets played over a montage sequence of photographs from that photo album , and finishes off with a very beautiful picture of Masami in a kimono central to the final act . Also , you'll be rewarded with a bonus scene right at the end . For the romantics out there , it's a little different in that it's not your usual boy-girl relationship , but it's love as strong nonetheless .
A Nutshell Review : The Exorcism of Emily Rose	After watching this movie , I feel compelled to correct what the marketing folks did , promoting it like an outright horror movie with plenty of " BOO " moments , and not an inclination that a major portion of this film takes place in a courtroom . I believe the trailer does not even hint at this having courtroom drama-mama moments , to which many in the audience that I watched this with , went " bor-ring " , " dull " , and disappointed many horny teenage boyfriends who thought they could eat tofu with each frightening scene . May I again repeat that this movie does not have plenty of moments which will make you jump , or your heart race . Neither should you associate this film with the kind of expectation from the superb The Exorcist - this film treats the ritual with some respect and doesn't sensationalize it , nor have any kinky spirits to possess the poor victim with abilities to walk backwards down a staircase , or find creative and vulgar uses for the crucifix . What this movie is , it's based on a true story ( of course names , etc have been changed , but the premise kept intact ) of a priest being hauled to court to stand trial in the 70s , having being accused of causing the death of a young girl through neglect . It's a tussle between science and faith as both defense and prosecution bring forth their theories about the events leading to the faithful night of the exorcism . Therefore , the act of casting spirits back to where they come from , is told only in flashbacks , and at times , with the scientific point of view in mind to debunk spiritualism . The narrative works for a courtroom movie , not so for a horror film . Perhaps the talking point in the movie , is the debate on the need to create a villain , in order for the hero to be a hero . It's similar to the theme that M Night Shyamalan's Unbreakable , and John Woo's MI : 2 touched upon . I'm neither religious or spiritual , and this film , like Constantine , drives home the point that it doesn't matter whether you believe in " them " - they believe in you / they are around . Laura Linney shines in her role as the lawyer who took on the case as it's publicity and promotional opportunity , and Tom Wilkinson is believable as the Father who dared to challenge Evil in the face . However , kudos must go to relative newcomer Jennifer Carpenter as Emily Rose , in highlighting the fear and pain that her character goes through . And ooh , the body contortions will just freak you out , and what surprised me was the unusual possession she experienced . I know that there'll be a group in the audience who'll give the thumbs up if John Constantine bursts into the scene and bitch-slaps the devil out of Emily Rose , in order to speed up the pace , but to such horror-action lovers , this will not be your cup of tea . The pacing is somehow deliberately slow to drum through the themes it wants to touch upon . To those who are patient , this movie tells the controversial story of a woman's decision to undergo what she has gone through , all in the name of Faith , and a man of God's decision to ensure that her message gets told .
A Nutshell Review : The Interpreter	This film is filled with Oscar winners , from the Director Sydney Pollack , to the two main leads in Nicole Kidman and Sean Penn . However , taking center stage is the UN building in New York , where for the first time , filmmakers are allowed into its halls and corridors , rather than relying on sound stages and back lots to create the movie magic . I have a friend who's working there , and of course whenever the building is on screen , my eyes were peeled . Naturally , the way Security is portrayed in the film got my interest as well , kinda like an occupational hazard , not that I am dealing with the high level stuff , but the same principles apply . Probably I'm the only one getting kicks from watching surveillance , security surveys , threat assessments , background checks , intelligence gathering , etc . Though I could say what they put on screen is plausible , there was one scene in the beginning that had me shaking my head to ( i . e . major plot hole , unlikely possible in real life ) , but has to happen anyway to facilitate the plot . And that's when we have Silvia Broome ( Nicole Kidman ) overhearing voices in the General Assembly talking about assassinating a visiting dignitary at the UN , and sparks off a cat and mouse game with her protector , Secret Service Agent Tobin Keller ( Sean Penn ) and team racing against time to discover who the perpetrators of the plot is , try to stop it from happening on US soil , and protecting their sole witness Silvia . But is she hiding something from the investigators ? Given her constant suspicious behaviour , it surely seems there is more to the interpreter than meets the eye . In a political thriller like this , there is no lack of showcasing bureaucracy , and politics amongst the various stakeholders , be they UN General Assembly , Security Council , etc . The current terrorism climate also rings close in this film , and it serves as a reminder to the audience that whoever out there hatching these diabolical plots , sad to say , hold the upper hand as to where and when to strike if we don't stay vigilant . However , US audiences might find the act shown in the movie too close for comfort . The pacing's comfortable , though at times threading close to sappy flashbacks , but when things heat up , they really get tense . IF you're a fan of tense moments like what Se7en offered , this show offers a few which will keep you on the edge of your seat . Sean Penn , if not the fine actor he is , could easily own the world weary cop role , as do Bruce Willis or even Al Pacino . But he gives his character an additional edge , on one hand brooding over the death of his adulterous wife , and on the other trying to figure out and protect his charge . Nicole Kidman , as the interpreter , brings about a tough-as-cookie yet extremely vulnerable woman in Silvia Broome with an accent to boot , and hey , it works for me ( read : eye candy ) . Some may find the plot a tad confusing , given the language used ( which calls for an interpretation , sometimes hard to listen in to the English portion ) , and uncommon character names ( hey , it's the UN ) , but hang in there , and you'll enjoy this film as much as I did .
A Nutshell Review : Doraemon The Movie	You can count on the Japanese to design a character that appeals to all demographics . If Hello Kitty and the Sanrio gang are deemed to girly , and the Ultraman / Power Rangers / Masked Rider et al deemed to manly , then Doraemon is just the perfect creation to appeal to boys and girls . A futuristic cat with more than a bagful of fantastic gadgets springing out from his pouch , my first brush with the character was through the animated television series , and later through translated comics . I still remember vividly the Doraemon gigantic soft toy ( comes without the cotton wool / sponge insert , and you have to DIY ) was the # 1 toy that NS boys bring back from overseas during my time . And while there have been Doraemon movies released over a period of time , this one marks the very first that makes it to the cinemas here if I recall correctly , no doubt boosted by reasonable box office numbers from recent anime movies like The Girl Who Leapt Through Time , Brave Story and Paprika . Watching this Doraemon movie is like taking a nostalgia trip down memory lane to meet up with familiar friends , only that the friends have been frozen in time and didn't age at all - they're still very much the school going children when we left off , with rich brat Suneo , fatty Gian , the token rose amongst the thorns Shizuka , the braggart Nobita who always shoots from the hip , but is extremely lucky to have a faithful companion that we too would love to have , Doraemon . A typical television episode would have Nobita running into trouble , and coaxing Doraemon to bail him out , more often than not featuring one of the countless gadgets that get introduced one episode at a time . However , this is unlike the series , that we don't have an all new , all powerful gadget to encompass the entire movie , but we have a series of familiar ones such as the time machine ( through the drawer ) , the stick-on helicopter head gear , and the shrinking ray gun . The movie doesn't delay any moment in getting things kick started , again relying on Nobita's loose tongue to get himself into trouble again , this time bragging that he could find a complete fossil to show off to his friends . As luck would have it , he finds a fossilized egg , and uses a Doraemon gadget to bring to life a dinosaur , hence the Japanese title , and the cute creature you see adorning the posters . While not spoiling the plot for you , it's akin to a Jurassic Park episode , with our friends helping to keep the creature alive , and through the process learn about friendship , perseverance and sacrifice . What I liked about this movie was the 2D animation . While 3D animation can be detailed and crystal clear without parallel if done right , this was a refreshing treat for the eyes as we go back to basics , to the old school style of animation , so much so that it is a breath of fresh air . And while art matters , story weighs in a lot more , so I'm glad to say that it possesses the little things in the television episodes that endears it to audiences , this time magnified for a feature length film . It's not a 90 minute film mind you , but a close to 2 hours one , but given its length , there are portions which could have been shortened of course , and I thought it really tried very hard to get some tears out of the tear ducts . Thank goodness for the well placed humour throughout the movie ! Given the school holidays just around the corner , and for young adults who reminisce growing up with the futuristic robot cat , I can't recommend Doraemon enough . An age old classic characterthat would appeal to all fans old or new .
A Nutshell Review : Dada's Dance	When Li Xinyun comes on screen the very first minute , you could almost hear a collective gasp amongst the audience . She looks like a cross between Vicky Zhao and Shu Qi , more the latter thanks to those bee-stung lips that assisted her titular character very much in dripping sensuality in almost every frame she's in . Helping too are a fitting tank top and a short pair of shorts to accentuate her fair limbs . Yes I may sound like a dirty old man , but that's precisely how the male population in Dada's neighbourhood feel every morning when she turns up the temperature around her estate . For her mum's potential suitor , Dada offers a very powerful , visual distraction , and to her neighbour Zhao Ye ( Li Xiaofeng ) , nothing beats peeping at Dada going about the household chores in the morning , thanks to her self-designed dance she grooves in to the tune of Remedios . Director Zhang Yuan , with inputs from his leads Li Xinyun and Li Xiaofeng , had crafted incredible teenage characters who are somewhat lost , and perpetually looking for something to hold on to , and to make sense of life with . And I guess more so from the former since the movie's titular character is played by her , hence instilling some sense of personal ownership in coming up with a memorable character who lingers long after the end credits roll . To a certain extent , I feel that had succeeded , and also because of the rouge like charisma Dada exudes , that bad girl whom everyone likes to gossip about , but whose genuine niceness is only seen by those whom she opens up to . For the most parts , the story's a road trip movie , with the duo Dada and boyfriend ( or so he wishes ) Zhao Ye going to an unnamed town to search for the Dada's biological mother . Insert comedic situations , red herrings , and little filler scenes about going through public records and the seeking of help from the police , it's a search for that unattainable needle in the haystack , but that's what this film is about . The search for something that cannot be grasped , and being always on the look out for anything that would provide that sense of satisfaction and happiness , without which will lead to some self-discontent with life as it is . For Dada , it's a search for her biological mom because she's unhappy with her mom's choice of companion ( to be fair to her mom , Dada didn't voice this out ) , and probably didn't like not told about being adopted . This despite her mom always treating her just like her own . And there's the search for love too , especially for a man she constantly turns away . Her life is one on the path of destruction , before that reconciliatory effort with both mom and Zhao Ye come calling . Granted there was a turning point in the film that provided that wake up call , but it did suggest that here's one woman who will take her chances , though answering to and facing the music in an attempt to turn her life over . The cinematography here is wondrous with beautiful scenery aplenty , be it the cramped quarters of the working class , the vast outdoors or the opulence of rich folks . And more importantly , to me at least , the score by Andrea Guerra also provided an added dimension to this Chinese film . Dada's Dance may not be perfect , but it does have moments which engage , and as mentioned , her dance just lingers effortlessly , and I'm grooving to it already as I write this ! Lalalalala . . . . .
A Nutshell Review : The Forbidden Kingdom	But surprise , the story did give what fans were after , watching both Li and Chan pit their choreographed skills against each other in nothing short of at least 10 minutes , aided by plenty of wire-work , and a variety of parodying moves from classic kung-fu inspired by animals and insects ( looks like Kung Fu Panda has been pawned ) . I thought it was extremely interesting to see Chan employ the use of Drunken Fists , which was utilized by one of the characters he has in his filmography - that of Wong Fei-hung , in which Jet Li made it his own under Tsui Hark's direction of the popular Once Upon a Time in China series . Li though also goes back early into his filmography , and stars as a monk , where a role in Shaolin Temple provided him his first wind at stardom . After that had been done , this works more of a collaborative storyline rather than an adversarial one , with that honors going to Collin Chou ( to continue the degrees of separation , he was chosen after Jet Li rejected the role of Seraph in the Matrix sequels ) , as the envious and devious Jade Warlord , whose cunning saw the stone imprisonment of the Monkey King , in a plot spin off not quite like the novels and the television series we're so familiar with . In fact , that's not just the only change or adaptation that made it to The Forbidden Kingdom , and here's where John Fusco's story runs riot . The opening credits already gave you an inkling of what's to come , with plenty of fanboy-dom in the paying of homage to great martial arts actors from Bruce Li , Gordon Liu and Cheng Pei-pei , to cult movies like 36th Chamber and One Armed Swordsman . And liberties were taken with characters in the movie as well , with the showpiece from Li Bingbing as Bride With White Hair ( She's no Lin Ching - hsia though ) and Liu Yifei , more popularly known for her Little Dragon Role in the Return to the Condor Heroes television series , now here as Golden Swallow from Come Drink With Me ( She's no Cheng Pei-pei either ) , and not Little Swallow as many in the audience had assumed . I have to give credit to the script for putting so many Chinese characters from martial arts novels , movies and folklore together , and giving it a refreshing spin through the infusion of creative imagination within something so established , yet doesn't make a monkey ( pardon the pun ) out of it concept-wise , but the delivery still managed to trudge on the muddle of clichés abound . You have a relative unknown to this part of the world , Michael Angarano , as Jason Tripitakas ( quite obvious reference , the name ) , the traveler from our world to the fantasy world , as the Chosen One who will toss the one ring into the fires of Mordor . OK , so he has in his possession the magical cudgel of the Monkey King , found in a little Chinatown shop of horrors , the sort where you can find Gremlins , and have to travel to the 5 Elements Mountain to return it to the rightful owner . To aid in his quest , Fate assembles for him the Fellowship of the Staff - Lu Yan ( Chan ) the drunken immortal , The Silent Monk ( Li ) and Golden Swallow ( Liu ) who has a personal vendetta of her own . There are some nifty special effects and martial arts choreography here , which is always a delight , though at times they do lapse into genericity , and had to have things like a bamboo forest to lend credibility and self-respectability . The villains too were pretty weak , and Collin Chou's main villain was reduced , besides the fight sequences , to nothing more menacing that Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa's Shang Tsung in Mortal Kombat . With Jackie Chan sharing the limelight with either Chris Rock or Owen Wilson in the Rush Hour and Shanghai-something franchise , there's no doubt who's the funny man . Here , Chan seemed to relish the opportunity to play jester , and you can see that coming across in very obvious fashion , though Li does have his moments out of being stoic , to deliver , of all things , well timed toilet humor . And there's plenty to laugh too at the movie , and this might serve as its biggest bugbear . The characters speak English for the most parts ( no doubt to whom this movie was made for ) , and there's really no rocket science trying to think up of excuses to do so , they just do , and quite abruptly and clumsily too . While Chan did seem comfortable with it after his stint at Hollywood , and Liu Yifei surprisingly very fluent , Jet Li seemed to need more work ( jia you OK ? ) as I could've sworn he said " speed , actually and power " . The dialog also lapsed into chop-suet talk with circle of fortune cookie riddles being thrown about , and the one that took the cake came from Liu Yifei ( listen out for it ! ) , coupled with the fact that her character tends to talk in third person perspective , which is puzzling . Howeer , The Forbidden Kingdom still managed to deliver an entertaining ride from start to end for the most parts , and if you can get pass the clichés and unintentionally comical moments . Fans of the martial arts genre will have a field day in identifying the little bits and pieces of references that pepper the movie , so to this group of fans , don't miss this movie !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Serenity ( 2005 )	The back story of Serenity and its TV series Firefly is what stuff like soap opera is made of . Created by Joss Whedon , popular creator-scribe of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel television series , the Firefly television series was yanked from the airwaves by Fox midway through its first season , but as all real life fairy tales go , the series was released on DVD , and became an instant cult classic . Hence , the movie was born given the built fan base . And having not watched the Firefly series , I think Serenity is a satisfyingly good sci-fi movie which can stand alone . Although it will take some getting used to the characters , it'll not take too long before you get into the swing of things to enjoy what this movie had to offer . Serenity refers to the Firefly class of spaceships in an era of the future where planets are colonized and banded together as an Alliance , with a band of rebels opposing the oppression of a totalitarian regime . Think of Star Wars scenario of an Empire with its Rebel Alliance , and Star Trek with its ship and crew in focus , combined . We follow the adventures of Captain Malcom Reynolds ( Nathan Fillion ) and his crew of merry men and women ( doctor , navigator , pilot , ex-lover etc ) as they undergo a rescue mission of one of their own , River Tam , who's a psychic turned dangerous weapon , or so they think . While they unravel the mystery and secrets of what River knows , they must outrun the ruthless Allaince's assassin who's after River , as well as fend off the deadly vicious creatures known as the Reavers . The Reavers are extremely dangerous folk , and I kinda liken them to Star Trek's Borg - they keep coming like zombies , and are known to rape and murder . The pacing is kept very tight , with witty dialogue flying all round . Humour is peppered throughout and you'll never know when it'll hit , even up to the very last frame ( no , I'm not kidding here ) . The production sets , though most are CGI , are really very pretty to look at , and the advanced world they live in , is an amalgamation of American and Chinese , so much so that the characters also spout ( sometimes intelligible ) Chinese phrases . There are memorable moments in the movie , though the action fights are quite ordinary , save for River's battle with the Reavers which seem to beat Aeon Flux's and Ultraviolet's hands down . Her storyline did thread very closely to resemble that of Leeloo's in Fifth Element though . Filled with deep characterization , Serenity will make you want to get your hands on the TV series to indulge in more adventures of the space crew . After watching this 2 hour movie , it's no wonder why Firefly has fast become a cult favourite . Too bad the movie didn't get a wide release locally ( only a GV Surprise Screening and another one-off at Prince ) , which will probably serve to extend its popularity here . Good , interesting Sci-Fi , must watch . Code 1 DVD comes chock full of extras . There's a full length feature film commentary by Joss Whedon , plenty of deleted scenes with Whedon's commentary , lots of outtakes , an laced - with-humour introduction by Whedon , three documentaries - 1 . Future History : The Story of Earth That Was , 2 . Re-lighting the Firefly , and 3 . What's in a Firefly , and an easter egg too , which showed the creation of that weird Fruity Oaty bar advertisement containing the sublime message ala The Manchurian Candidate .
A Nutshell Review : I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry	Folks would have remembered Kevin James as the affable guy who needed help from Will Smith to hook up with girls in the romantic comedy Hitch . Which I thought was a little strange , because , and I'm not gay , James comes across in likable terms . In Chuck and Larry , he's the latter , again looking for help as his job as a firefighter puts him in considerable risks , and wants to ensure that his children's welfare is taken of in the unfortunate event that he goes . So who can a man turn to except to his best friend , Chuck ( Adam Sandler ) , through a vowed favour to repay . In order go get around red tape , he has to marry somebody who will get his insurance dollars and use that to care for his children . And since same-sex domestic partnership is in , why not exploit it with none other than a buddy whom you have known for considerable time ? But of course getting a ladies man to forever ditch his gallivanting ways is a tall order , and worse , having him to declare that he's gay is akin to asking him to lose all his limbs ( yes , including that one ) . And to a test of their brotherly friendship and marital vows , temptation comes in the form of hot lawyer Alex ( Jessica Biel , who looked smokin hot with those glasses ) , who proves to be too much to handle for the women-loving Chuck . Is it always that women will let down their guard with a gay guy who proves to be a best of both worlds confidante ? Expect the usual gay and homophobic jokes to spew from the movie . However , Chuck and Larry somehow had a lot more heart in it than anyone would like to credit it for . While touching on certain gay issues does allow it to receive some punching bag treatment to bring on some laughs , I felt that it was not so much about gayness or a gay show , than it is about the friendship amongst the bestest of friends , you know , the one whom you can slug it out with when your views differ , but no sooner than the fists are put away , you can hit the nearest pub and down some pints together . While you may argue that it tackles the gay issue and opposition to them in a rather superficial manner , I thought it covered a lot of ground , and while they may be disguised under laughter , actually had very serious and contemporary issues brewing underneath it all . It may seem like a platform mouthpiece , but provides a very succinct coverage of the discrimination and prejudice these same-sex lovers face from society . The supporting cast here are recognizable faces , although reduced mostly to caricatures , like Dan Aykroyd , Ving Rhames , and Steve Buscemi as a federal employee fraud investigator that you would just love to hate , especially with his disgustingly unhygienic coin pouch and irritating demeanour . I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry is a pretty even comedy with dramatic and touching moments . It's a romantic comedy with an added dimension , filled with an excellent soundtrack from acts like Wham , PM Dawn and even Cyndi Lauper . Oh , and you'll never look at , or use postal terms , ever the same again !
A Nutshell Review : Enchanted	How does she know , you love her ? Probably by bringing her to watch Enchanted , a movie with the words " chick flick " rubber stamped all over it . I've got to admit my friend offered to hook me up on a blind date with a hot chick because she wanted to watch this movie , and I had unsuccessfully persuaded him to bring her out on this movie date himself . Anyway if you're reading this , you should , because it has a winning formula ! The trailers would have suggested that this was going to be a madcap time , with a Disney movie poking fun at most of its classics , drawing inspiration from , and then taking a mickey out of it . You have a princess-wannabe Giselle ( Amy Adams ) , an animated character modeled quite generically from beauties like Snow White , Cinderella , Sleeping Beauty et al . Thrown in a Prince Charming named Edward ( James Marsden ) , and his evil stepmother The Queen ( Susan Sarandon ) , with evil hag disguise to boot . And with her greed to hold onto the Kingdom , she prevents the love-at-first-sight / song couple from marrying , and banishes Giselle to The Big Apple . With zero help and all the wrong moves and polite demeanor , she finds herself in the unlikely friendship of Robert Philip ( Patrick Dempsey ) and his daughter Morgan ( Rachel Covey ) . And here's when the movie starts to come alive with its inane scenes drawn from the Disney archives to bring on the chuckles , down to full blown musical numbers that are just plain charming . If Disney animated movies of yester-years have lovey dovey songs ( listen carefully to the background music to spot some recognizable Disney tunes ) , poisoned apples , dragons , henchmen , magic mirrors ( ha ! ) , witches , glass slippers , gorgeous costumes and cute furry animals , this movie has them all . But aside from the predictable elements that make a Disney cartoon a Disney cartoon , it boiled down to what's core in such fairy tales : True Love's Kiss . The one thing that every Disney female character yearn for from their hero . It's a typical fairy tale plot , but in its fish out of water storyline , it offered a clash of two different worldly views on the notion of love . For Giselle , it's always been happily ever afters after a shotgun meeting - boy meets girl , girl loves boy , they get married and live in a huge castle . In the real world we're so familiar with , Robert epitomizes the modern day notions of long drawn courtships , the trying to find out everything you can about the other half , for compatibility reasons , the contemplation whether you can live forever ( which is such a long time ) with the other half , and the option to divorce always hanging overhead when things don't work out . It's a clash of two different perspective from different worlds , and needless to say opposites do attract , henceforth providing a sort of dilemma as both parties are to be married to their respective partners . Amy Adams is Enchanted , without whom the movie will fall flat . She sings the songs , dances the joyous dance , squeals in delight at every new experience , and is the typical bambi-eyed beauty who finds positivity in everything , even when they are heading south . I guess I'm attracted to optimism , and no doubt , her character of hope had naturally struck a chord in me ( same thing goes for Kirsten Dunst's Claire in Cameron Crowe's Elizabethtown ) . When she opens her mouth and sings to invoke the innate powers of all Disney heroines , the ability to charm animals from afar to do her bidding , you've gotta see this one as it just cracks you up with the type of beings she conjures in New York . In her own ditzy manner , her Giselle will undoubtedly find a soft spot in your heart . Playing her two leading men are Patrick Dempsey as the world-weary divorce lawyer whose pessimism is soon to take an hard knock from Giselle's infectious attitude towards love , and James Marsden as the very himbo-like Prince Edward , all brawn , a naturally glib tongue , and perhaps a hint of an airhead ( Is it me , or are female characters these days becoming more Alpha-typed ? ) . Susan Sarandon got top billing too in this movie , and while she looks quite the part as the evil Queen , it's a pity that her screen time had been severely limited , lending more of her voice instead rather than appearing in the flesh . Throwaway characters include Timothy Spall as the no good henchman Nathaniel , and an animated chipmunk Pip ( noises by the director Kevin Lima himself in the NY version ) which seems to be the precursor to more of the same once Alvin and the Chipmunks hit the screen next month . In true Disney fashion , Enchanted goes back to basics with its message , that there must always be hope that one day you'll meet your true love , whether they drop in from the sky , or crawl out of the sewer . Almost a no-brainer choice for dating couples looking for fluffy chick flick entertainment .
A Nutshell Review : Sweeney Todd	Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street was slated to have been released end of next month . Then came the relatively strong opening in the West late last year , followed by nominations and wins in the Golden Globes , that it has now been bumped up for release this week , prior to the 3-way fight that the Asian movies will put up in the upcoming Lunar New Year week . I thought it was a no-brainer having to release this early as Johnny Depp is already a household name here thanks to the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise , and here he dons eye shadow and retains the bad teeth to play the titular character . One can imagine the troubles that a beautiful wife may bring , especially when people in positions of power find it easy to abuse that authority in order to covert her . Benjamin Parker ( Depp ) , as he was originally known , was a naive young barber with a beautiful wife and kid , but corrupt Judge Turpin ( Alan Rickman ) felt some strong stirring in his loins , enough to banish Parker for years , and taking a leaf out of Mask of Zorro's villain Don Rafael Montero , adopts Parker's child Johanna , only with plans to make the beautiful girl his wife when she comes of age ( shades of Kim Ki-duk's The Bow too ) . So Parker returns with bad attitude and probably bad breath as well , to sing his way ( you do know it's a musical , don't you ? ) into implementing his scheme of revenge on those who had trespassed him , and does so with the help of a lousy pie baker Mrs Lovett ( Helena Bonham Carter ) . He slices and dices with his collection of silver blades , while she bakes and she cooks using ingredients on the cheap , and regular on supply , with a unique taste to boot . Based on the West End musical by Stephen Sondheim , this film adaptation by director Tim Burton have re-teamed his virtual cast from Corpse Bride with Depp and Carter in the lead roles of Sweeney Todd and Mrs Lovett , complete with pale skin and a Gothic wardrobe . They are no strangers to Burton , with Depp having collaborated with Burton since the days of Edward Scissorhands , which puts him in good steed as he now wields the barber blades , and 5 more films thereafter . Helena Bonham Carter , well , is his fiancée , so nuff said about that too . Together they share familiar chemistry already established , and chew up scenes especially when they sing their duets , and you'll feel somewhat sad for Mrs Lovett as she pines for Todd's love , which isn't forthcoming as he's so obsessed with trying to find opportunity to get close to Judge Turpin and exact his revenge . Tim Burton seemed to have been influenced a bit by the Asian ketchup director Chang Cheh , as blood get spilled by the bucketloads in similar style , and this time , done in very tongue - in-cheek manner with the spurts shooting quite exaggeratedly sky high and the drips emulating volumes from a waterfall . But there's no denying that it is wonderfully photographed , and is something you'd come to expect each time you watch a Burton film , complete with dark humour , and plenty of dark elements and themes . Being a musical , the songs are top notch , and the lyrics really classy , bringing out the emotions felt by the characters without unnecessary pomp , getting straight to the point . In fact , everyone in the movie , right down to the supporting cast like Alan Rickman and Timothy Spall had lines to sing , and I'm quite surprised to see ( and hear ) Alan Rickman's piece , together with Depp's , which was , though short , quite wonderful . Alas , and I think I'm getting quite anal here and hopefully I arrest this problem soon , the romance between Anthony ( Jamie Campbell Bower ) and Johanna ( Jayne Wisener ) seemed a little too contrived and emotionally empty , and I rather disliked the way their love developed , or left hanging - even though we could've guessed the likely outcome , Burton decided to end the movie in the best possible way it could without dwelling too much on the obvious . Which means the final act zooms past a tad too fast after a deliberate , measured build up . Oh , and watch out too for Sacha " Borat " Baron Cohen in a small supporting role as Italian tout Pirrelli who sells magical hair elixirs , which was well worth its moments . But if there's one thing I'd take away from the movie , is that to beware the barber's blade . Somehow Eastern Promises had started it , and now Sweeny Todd highlights the dangers . Hope it stays in movieland , and not inspire anyone out there who'd think they're the fastest , cleanest shave in town ! Recommended for the songs , which lifted the ho-hum story .
A Nutshell Review : Midnight Sun	I'm a sucker for romances of such nature , and I thought romances usually fall broadly under two categories - one bearing films like Midnight Sun , and the other being romantic comedies . It's a sweet love story between a busker with a great voice , and an unskilled surfer dude . It's a tale about a love with an end date put on it , and it makes you wonder if it's only with an end in sight , that you try and make the most our of everything , rather than to waste time and take things for granted . Japanese singer Yui plays Kaoru , a girl inflicted with a rare disorder , which makes her nocturnal . She cannot go out in the sun as the UV rays will wreck havoc on her skin and kill her , and so , from birth , has been kept indoors most of the time , and let out an night to allow her to do what she loves most - busking at a secluded corner at her neighbourhood . She has a crush on Koji ( Takashi Tsukamoto ) , a surfer dude , an average guy with an average life . Each night , she observes him , without his knowledge , from her bedroom window , until one day when she picks up enough courage to make the first move . Welcome to the world of Japanese romance movies once again , where beautiful cinematic shots are used to enhance locales and make them so integral in the story . Where love is saccharine sweet , and the leads oh-so-beautiful . The songs too , written and sung by Yuri , grows on you , and I won't be surprised if the soundtrack for the movie is selling like hot cakes . What I thought raised the movie to a different level , is how parents are involved . Usually , in most romances , the parents are out of the picture . Here , they are so very much part of the entire set up , and while they do take the backseat at times , there're scenes dedicated just for the parents , and especially the father figure . It's always especially painful to see your child suffer under an incurable disease , and as a parent , incapable of lifting a finger to help , because you just can't , definitely hurts . Here , the melodrama works full steam , but I thought it was a nice touch to be inclusive of those who always provide unconditional love - parent to child . Clocking at two hours , the initial pacing is a bit slow when establishing characters and premise , but once that's done , the movie's a breeze . It's an excellent date movie , so guys , take your lady love to this movie , and of course , Yui is opportunity for you to ogle ; - ) Remember to bring those tissues !
A Nutshell Review : Shoot ' Em Up	Shoot ' Em Up is a guilty pleasure in watching a souped up modern day Western , where a stranger rides into town , minding his own business , but his innate qualities of helping the meek and the downtrodden almost always brings him adventure uncalled for . Trouble looks for him , and he has the opportunity to show everyone , and the audience , just why he's so damn dangerous . And dangerous is how Clive Owen played " Mr Smith " , a pseudonym given to him as he's a one man army with no name , no allegiance , and a mysterious past . Nobody knows who he is and what his story his , but we know him as he gets sucked thick into the action , and follow him through his adventures of staying alive and dishing out vengeful justice on those that stand in his way . He chomps not a cigar but a carrot like an Energizer bunny that refuses to give up , and makes Paul Giamatti's Hertz look like Elma Fudd in trying to get lead pumped into the bunny . It's an out and out action movie in the veins of Crank , and in many similar ways , played out like a violent video game too . And gratuitous violence doesn't just cut it , it has to be stylized as well While you marvel at Mr Smith's near invulnerability , as expected and a given for any hero in this genre . Bear in mind though , that it doesn't take itself too seriously , with many of the stunts and set action pieces here bordering on the incredible and the ridiculous , but hey , who's complaining ? It sure does bring a chuckle or two in its attempts perhaps at ramping up such sequences for the action fan boys . But if you think Hong Kong actioners look too staged and choreographed , then this one may not be your cup of action tea . High in its body count thanks to the deadly skills of Smith and countless of extras , Shoot ' Em Up is not just about guns guns guns , but had its fair share of sexual situations too , thanks to sex siren Monica Bellucci as a prostitute . As the saying goes , there's nothing more appealing to an audience than sex and violence , and what was pretty audacious , that perhaps had to be seen to be believed , is how the movie managed to marry both together , in a pretty laugh out loud scene that brings to mind any typical treatment that a Hong Kong Category III will adopt . It's an adrenaline rush from beginning to end , and a loud and noisy movie that's to be filed under guilty pleasure . Clive Own is believable as a one man army - who needs the tuxedo , martini and Aston Martin ? - while Paul Giamatti has enough wickedness and menace as a shady unforgiving mercenary . While it has an anti-gun message , truth is , we're here for the senseless violence it offers instead .
A Nutshell Review : Death Proof	After the relative success of his homage to kung fu with his Kill Bill movies , Quentin Tarantino turned his sights to the 70s exploitation movies with Grindhouse : Death Proof . However , for us outside the US , we do not get the Grindhouse double bill with Robert Rodriguez's Planet Terror and a host of easter egg styled trailers , but rather we get the longer cut of both movies . Many have said that Planet Terror proved to be superior to Death Proof , but without watching the other , I thought Tarantino's offering was pretty decent stuff . Perhaps his detractors loathed how he made references to and probably paid homage to his own movies and signature style . This spelt E-G-O , and doesn't go down well , with its plenty of foot fetish shots , reminiscent of foot massages , and if you pay attention enough , you'd spot and hear about the Big Kahuna burgers , familiar tunes over the ringtones , yellow and black striped colour schemes , the alpha female type chicks , and loads and loads of vulgarity laced dialogue just about everything under the sun , with characters mouthing off in cars or around a dining table . That about sums up stuff from Reservoir Dogs all the way to Kill Bill . But Death Proof is a different animal altogether . Being his own cinematographer , QT has full control over the shots that he makes , and injects plenty of sleaze into his story - buxomy , leggy girls in tight tees and perky butts peeking out of hot pants , flaunting their power of sexuality in alpha-female styled attitudes . It's actually two different segments in one movie , each being quite different from the other in terms of themes , and style . The first half introduced us to characters like Arlene ( Venessa Ferlito ) , Shanna ( Jordan Ladd ) , Jungle Julia ( Syndey Poitier ) and Pam ( Rose McGowan ) , who end up in a bar doing their own thing ( read : plenty of dialogue and flirting with the camera ) . We get introduced quite slowly to the psycho Stuntman Mike ( Kurt Russell , with Snake Plissken styled scar ) , who while on one hand befriends the girls , but on the other hand , we are just waiting for the action to begin . Being a stuntman , his car is " death proof " , meaning it's rigged like stunt cars that provide protection for its driver , and nothing else . And if you're twiddling your thumbs for some action to take over , then be prepared to wait a bit . You see , despite what you think Death Proof might be , it's nothing about the action , not at least until the driver takes the wheel . And when QT lets it rip , out comes the blood and gore , exploitation style . Given the fake jump cuts , bad editing and scratchy film stock , it becomes near impossible to find out just which parts were censored for the local M18 version . It does seem to make sense still and flow well , but you can probably bet your last dollar that some bits were removed . On the other hand , we have stuff like the lap dance kept intact , which was omitted from the double bill Grindhouse . Win some and lose some . The second half of the movie is a different story altogether . For the most parts , the 70s style gets junked , maybe because it got tiring , or it's too tedious to replicate the cheesy special effects over to this story arc , where the hunter becomes the hunted . There's plenty of action , but could I say it's somewhat repetitive and lacks that oomph , until the final moments where you probably might go " that's awesomely cool " . Other than that , it's more of the same , with more eye candy courtesy of Mary Elizabeth Winstead ( Sky High , Final Destination 3 ) , Rosario Dawson , Tracie Thorns and Zoe Bell , with plenty more QT styled dialogue of pop irrelevance . While stylistically the movie might want to try and resemble low budgeted 70s exploitation movie , Death Proof juxtaposes certain current day elements into itself , making it somewhat messy with gizmos like cell phones and portable music players . What put a smile on my face though ( besides the beautiful ladies of course ) , is Kurt Russell's two-faced Stuntman Mike performance . He can be nonchalant one minute , oozing indifference , and in the next , he can be so silently deranged you'd rather choose to leap from the vehicle , if you had a means to that is . Or he can be the classic road rage driver , before realizing he has bitten off more than he could chew . It's been some time having Russell on the big screen , and I thought he did fine , despite not being QT's first choice for the role . Ultimately , just one warning about the movie - expect plenty of dialogue , and I mean plenty , with characters talking about sexuality and about people who never appear on screen , and if you can't stand irrelevance , then steer clear . The action comes on in limited spurts , so if that's what you're after , then savour every moment when the gear shifts into overdrive . The loopy soundtrack too is a bonus , and adds some authentic exploitative flavour . QT did not manage to outdo himself , but still managed to capture the correct spirit in those films he wants to emulate . If Rodriguez's installment is as they say far superior than QT's , then I'd say bring on Planet Terror already !
A Nutshell Review : The Illusionist	Director Neil Burger is a relative unknown . To date he has only directed one other feature film , Interview With An Assassin , a fictional account of the real shooter of the JFK assassination , which I had the chance of watching it on DVD some time back . Comparing production values , it's a great leap forward for Burger , having now directed a movie starring heavyweight character actors Edward Norton and Paul Giamatti . Adapted from a short story by writer Steven Millhauser called Eisenheim the Illusionist , this movie made its debut at last year's Sundance Film Festival , and was supposed to have premiered locally at around the same time as Christopher Nolan's The Prestige . However , I suspect that distributors might have thought the pairing of Edward Norton and Paul Giamatti , excellent actors in their own right , would find it tough against competition in Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman , who in today's context , are instantly recognizable and appealing because of their successful comic book movie roles in Batman and X-Men respectively . In reality , comparing The Illusionist to The Prestige is comparing apples to oranges . The only similarities they share are their occupation - practitioners of magic , and coupled with immense knowledge of science and technology . Although period movies , they share similar eras , but are based in separate locations - this one in Vienna , the other in London . At its core , The Prestige is one solid movie about obsession and revenge , but The Illusionist is surprisingly , for all its moodiness displayed in the trailer , it's all about love . Edward Norton is Eisenheim , top illusionist whom some say he dabbles in the dark arts and sold his soul to the devil . Watching what he could do , you'll probably be more inclined to agree . After having lost his love due to a difference in class , he meets up with Sophie ( Jessica Biel ) again , although this time she's about to get engaged to Austrian Crown Prince Leopold ( Rufus Sewell ) . Hence the dilemma , and now , an opportunity to try and get his girl . It's a beautifully filmed movie , and I marvel at the cinematography and techniques to date this movie to the early silent movie era . The production values are top notch , with costumes , makeup and special effects which , though simple , deserve special mention as they just worked brilliantly to enhance the viewing experience . The magic here is " magic " in that sense of the word , and doesn't try to obsess itself with trying to explain the plausibility behind every trick . And yes , there are more magic here , if that's your cup of tea ( though of course , aided by cinematic movie making tricks ) . But what I thought really did the trick ( pardon the pun ) , was Paul Giamatti's character Chief Inspector Uhl , as the man caught in the middle of a moral dilemma . Through his eyes , we see the corruption of those in power , and when put in a position where you are reliant on that power , how it could serve to confuse , whether to betray your values for material wealth and status , or to do what is right . Edward Norton is not as muted here as his other movie also now showing in Singapore - The Painted Veil , and although his Eisenheim is strictly focused on his goals , his intense fixation somehow diluted the complexity of his character somewhat . Jessica Biel unfortunately is the weak link here , as is Rufus Sewell as he struggles through his yet-another-villain role which doesn't offer much range besides snarling and being nasty . Before you pass judgement during the movie's plot development as being too simplistic if compared to The Prestige's , I'd say to hold that thought , and to pay close attention . It's a mixture of drama , mystery and romance , and when all's revealed at the end , somehow it'll just bring a smile to your face , especially so if you're a romantic . I like The Illusionist !
A Nutshell Review : Krrish	The very first Indian movie I saw in its entirety as a kid , was Annamalai , starring Superstar Rajnikanth . Since then I was intrigued by Indian cinema , but never found the patience nor the time to sit through the standard fare of at least 2 . 5-3hrs of pure spectacle . On and off I caught bits and pieces of movies shown on TV , and the last Bollywood movie I saw mid-way , was Shah Rukh Khan's Asoka , and that's it . Krrish is a sequel to the blockbuster Koi . . . Mil Gaya , also directed by Rakesh Roshan , but no worries if you haven't seen the first movie - you'll be brought up to speed in no time , and Krrish will also work if it stood alone . First off , it's a superhero movie combined with science fiction , so that was a plus point to have this movie reintroduce me to Bollywood once again . And it worked . With romance , action , and some comedy thrown into the mix , what can one ask for more for pure entertainment ? Those not familiar with Bollywood movies might balk at the length of Krrish - almost 5 minutes shy of 3 hours , which is quite standard runtime fare ( there is a clearly marked " interval " in the movie , but it was not utilized here ) . But I tell you that you won't feel its length , and will actually secretly hope that it continues some more . The first hour dwelled on the introduction of our hero Krishna ( Hrithik Roshan ) , a man born with extraordinary powers , whose grandmother Sonia took upon herself to shield him from a world awaiting to exploit his talent , if discovered . It's like a visit to the Kent farm , except that the whole grandmother - son relationship looked more at home vis-a-vis Spiderman's Aunt May and Peter Parker . When Krishna meets Priya ( the gorgeous Priyanka Chopra , Miss World 2000 ) by chance during her adventure holiday camp , and he becomes smitten with her , moving the movie towards a romance . She's the quintessential Singapore modern career girl , who puts career ( or trying to salvage it ) before love , and therein complicates matters of the heart when we get to the boy-momentarily-loses-girl bit . Plenty of drama in this area , though it doesn't dwell too long on it , increasing the pace for the action bits . Those eager to see Krrish , the superhero , will have to wait almost 2 hours before he makes an appearance in full costume . He's like Jet Li's cousin Black Mask with the black outfit and abilities , but with a better looking facial piece to disguise his identity . But with or without costume , we see Krishna's prowess through various stunt and fight choreography enhanced by wirework from one of Hong Kong's stunt masters , Chen Siu-Tung , especially in his " qing gong " abilities to glide effortlessly through the air like Chinese martial artists . There's also a showpiece for Hrithik to demonstrate the kung-fu skills picked up , and the fights , if compared with other Bollywood movies , have toned down its cheesy sound effects and credibility issues because of its premise ( if a superhero punches you , you'll definitely fly what ) . And what's a Bollywood flick without song and dance ? Yes , our hero sings and dances when romancing his love , from the mountains in India to the skyscrapers in Singapore , but he doesn't do so as his alter-ego Krrish ( yup , just let the superhero stick to kicking serious rear ) . There are 5 beautiful songs in Krrish , and save for the one in the circus , the rest did not involve mass dancing by extras , which kept the focus purely on the leads . And the dance choreography was pretty amazing too , though I was surprised that Hrithik Roshan , given his muscular bulk , could dance so gracefully . Oh , did I mention Priyanka Chopra is gorgeous ? While the romance and action bit were interesting , the science fiction bit was unfortunately found wanting . Not that it was bad , but because it was too familiar . Adapting the same plot as Philip K Dick's Paycheck , the sets , premise and plot device looked exactly the same as John Woo's Paycheck movie - we have the evil Dr Arya ( Naseeruddin Shah ) building a supercomputer which can look into the future , and therefore becoming God himself . The evil lair too looked like Woo's underground lair in M : I2 , complete with pigeons ( no doves in Singapore ) . For those who want to know more about the local landmarks used - Singapore Expo was used quite a bit , since it's large enough to be filmed at different areas passing off as different venues , even doubling up as Changi Airport's arrival hall entrance with smart editing . The Esplanade was another choice location as the HQ of a conglomerate run by Dr Arya , with National Library's Pod doubling as the penthouse office . There are many scenes with glass windows , which will clue you in on the location of the current setting . Other notable locations are the condos at Kallang , Shenton Way / Raffles Place , Lau Pa Sat ( widely publicized during the shoot here ) , the Singapore River and our offshore islands . Krrish reminded me that cinema is about the big spectacle , and I encourage anyone who's into song , dance , and especially those interested in seeing local landmarks make their way into movies , to give Krrish a shot . It made Singapore look sexy , and probably showed us a different angle in making an action movie here . While awaiting the arrival of Singer's Man of Steel , watch Krrish !
A Nutshell Review : The Chaser	The Chaser become a box office hit in South Korea earlier this year , and as the byline on the poster goes , it's highly acclaimed , and it shocked moviegoers . I won't dispute either claim though , because it reaffirmed that there are quality crime thrillers coming out from their film industry after dismal efforts like Typhoon or Fate . The DVD has already been out in the shops overseas and I was tempted to get it just to experience what the fuss is about . Finally being released here this week , The Chaser boasts plenty of nail biting sequences , and scenes that would work the heart despite having most of its violence done off screen . The protagonist happens to be quite an unsavoury character Joong-ho ( Kim Yun-seok ) , an ex-cop turned pimp who's running into some severe manpower issues when his girls start to disappear from their work . A pattern he noticed though is a peculiar caller , Young-min ( Ha Jung-woo ) being the last customer serviced , and unwittingly he had sent one of his girls , Mi - kin ( Seo Yeong-hie ) to meet up with him for business . Smelling a rat , and thinking that the caller might be a human trafficker of sorts , he tries to spring a trap , but Murphy's Law kicks in , and hence begin the cat and mouse game . In some ways the movie reminded me of the Hollywood movie ( and now Hong Kong remake ) Cellular , where a female in distress tries hard to contact the outside world for help , and those on the outside trying to work their way in to locate that needle in a haystack . What surprised me though , is that the film adapted a strategy used by Confessions of Pain in showing the hand of the serial killer very early on in the film , but unlike the Hong Kong movie , The Chaser somehow pulled it off through pacing done correctly , and managed to sustain interest and attention all the way to the end . The title might suggest pursuit , but it's not always having characters on the run , with nicely punctuated moments of human drama to provide a level of humanity , or inhumanity , to its characters . Kim Yun-seok as Joong-ho starts off as an uncaring boss whose priority is money , and thinks the world revolves around riches . His motivation for getting into the sex trade never really gets explained , though one can suspect that his hot headed temperament would have made it extremely difficult for him to function as a cop , or to gain support from his superiors when he goes berserk . There's still some good in him though through his redemption , when he starts to realize just how much of a jerk he had become , and goes all out to look for his staff when the police all but knock on the wrong doors . The Chaser also became a commentary of the inefficiencies of the police force , of the huge disparity in quality between seasoned investigators , and beat cops . It's also bogged down by the usual bureaucratic nonsense of covering the backsides of superiors or situations that put the department under bad light , and questions certain situations when investigations are carried out only for various avenues of politicking . What's more of a shocker here is , despite that which we've seen on investigation integrity in Memories of Murder , that fabricating of evidence still is a norm , where superiors tell their underlings that it is perfectly OK to cook up a story to fill in some blanks in reports , or when legwork turn out to be unfruitful , and in extracting confessions . Granted the movie paces itself against the clock given that suspects have to be released 12 hours after an arrest without a warrant , it makes for some excellent race against the clock moments , especially with the villain overtly taunting the cops with red herrings and mocked insanity , which actor Ha Jung-woo does a fine job with . Investigations get carried out in both the orthodox , proper way involving the authorities , and one working outside the system , where you'd be put in a spot to cheer the vigilantism and absence of red tape , which even the cops support , and mock the ineptness of policing with one hand tied behind the back . If you're one who's easily worked up through injustices put on screen , then you might want to keep your temper in check when sitting through The Chaser , as the last act will almost inevitably make you feel exasperated , and seethe with rage at the developments in the narrative . It might not be as good as the excellent Memories of Murder , but this stylish package comes close . Recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Eight Below	I'm a long time admirer of the beautiful huskies , their steely blue eyes , and their ability to survive the harshest of winter while pulling along a heavy sled as a team . They're the equivalent of the camel in the desert and the equal of Lassie . It's tough to keep one in Singapore , not that you can't ( I've seen a couple in dog shows ) , but I suppose our weather here is too brutal . Eight Below , inspired ( loosely in my opinion ) by true events , tells the story of a team of 8 huskies , who belong to a science foundation supporting antarctic expeditions . The first 30 minutes introduce the team of Buck , Dewey , Max , Maya , Old Jack , Shadow , Shorty and Truman , who are the " babies " of Paul walker's antarctic guide Jerry Shepard . We also get to see plenty of action by this team of dogs , from the two formation strategies used to pull a sled , to a rescue mission . Pretty amazing stuff . What's more amazing is their tale of survival , for a period of almost 6 months , on their own . When a severe storm approaches , the humans gather to evacuate out of their base camp , leaving the dogs behind with a promise to come back and get them , which they never did . It's one of those survival of the fittest , and downright betrayal of man's best friend . Shepard tries hard to gather resources and persuade the right people to sponsor a 3-day trip for him to get his dogs back , but is always denied the request outright . The next hour shuttles between the remorse that Shepard experiences , and that of what happened to the dogs , their deviously cunning way of hunting for food , of facing up to natural disasters , of fighting off powerful enemies like the leopard-seals , of basic survival . We see that they're a highly disciplined bunch that follows the leader , and have unsaid rituals too . You'll feel for the canines , and they will tug at your heartstrings . And given the spotlight on the dogs , the humans are all overshadowed . It's just to provide a human element of emotional attachment that Shepard has for the dogs , and of some comedy ( Jason Biggs of American Pie ) . Sorry people , the focus is on the extraordinary dogs . At the end of the day , this is a Disney picture , which accounts for its bittersweet feel good factor towards the end , a fictionalized take of an event , sort of like this year's March of the Penguins , sans documentary material . My favourites in the show will have to be the dogs ( there are 2 dogs casted per role ) that played Max and Maya . Simply beautiful . Watch this movie , and you'll be a fan of the huskies too . Now to save up for a trip !
A Nutshell Review : There Will Be Blood	Money is the root of all evil . It's needed to fuel the economy , and it's needed to further various gains , be it personal , political , and even religious to a certain extent . Too much money and people will see green , wanting to know the secret formula to creating and hoarding wealth , because of the various forms of satisfying utility that comes with the spending of money . And precious commodity like oil which is in high demand , automatically equates to wads of cold hard cash . Written and directed by Paul Thomas Andersen , There Will Be Blood brings us to the early 20th century , where it chronicles the exploits of a certain Daniel Plainview ( Daniel Day - Lewis ) , who discovers oil deposits during silver mining , and hedges a bet on the right horse . Calling himself an oil man , he designs his persona as being a humble family man , with his adopted child H . W . , so as to lower his level of threat as he goes around acquiring land which has the prospect on sitting upon oceans of oil buried deep down . It's a very shrewd move , and a card that he plays to perfection , hiding a cruel mean streak that he possesses deep within . A teenager approaches him one day with leads that his family and the entire neighbourhood of simple rural folk , are sitting atop a potential gold mine . Without further ado , Daniel and son qualifies this lead , and hurriedly entice the folks to sell their estate to him . And here's where the compelling argument for the proposal take place , where even you'll be hard pressed not to agree with , of the boost in the local economy that the oil money will bring - better infrastructure , better crops for food , educational opportunities , jobs all round , and the likes . But Eli Sunday ( Paul Dano ) plays the hard game with Daniel , and requests for a church to be built for him , to further his ambition of being the defacto faith healer in the community . And of course , such deal breakers are never in the good books of shrewd businessmen like Daniel , and the two of them set down the path of adversity , with the playing of games with each other , obvious snubbing , and total disgust . We see how the upper hand swings and shifts from one character to the other in their struggle for power over the community - one through the economy , the other through religion . And it is this battle which made me get interested and sit up . There are some very acute observations about the abuse of religion in this movie , and the exploitation of it for ulterior motives , gains , and self-preservation , cannot be highlighted in terms more stark than those here . For money , one can sell the soul to the devil , or turn religious should support be able to be garnered from the support group . For money or power over the masses , false prophets inch their way to top positions so as to have absolute command and control over their followers . To save one's skin , one can deny their Lord whom they exalt in the loudest voice day in day out , although this is no big deal for false prophets since their faith is placed on the moolah instead . I will count my chicken before it hatches , and say Daniel Day-Lewis will win that Best Actor Oscar this year , without a doubt . He will be robbed of that accolade should he not win it , as it was a really fascinating transformation to his character , and I still admire how Day-Lewis the person fades away into the character he portrays . His oil man is nothing but a ruthless businessman who will stop at nothing , not even murder , to fulfill his goals . His deep resonating voice is strangely hypnotic , and he presents a character that you will so love to hate , and probably be fearful of , along the way . Relative newcomer Paul Dano holds his own against the acclaimed veteran , and his Eli character exudes a sense of seediness that you can't help but cheer when he gets his just desserts . With the both of them having a chance to have a go at each other , I thought Dano really took up the opportunity to let it rip . It's a pretty long movie , sad to say you can feel its length . It unveils itself very slowly , and the first 20 minutes are pretty much devoid of any speaking parts , as you follow the designing and building of land based oil rigs , as well as the process to bring out the black gold . But there are some brilliant scenes in the movie which are worth their weight in gold , coupled with the beautiful cinematography and art direction , transporting you back to the turn of the century . The last third of the movie seemed to pick up the pace but felt somewhat rushed , but the superb acting and ending more than make up for the shortcomings along the way .
A Nutshell Review : Breaking News	I guess the holidays now give me some extra breathing space and time to raid my DVD library for many films yet unseen , and given my profound admiration of films coming out of Hong Kong's Milkyway Studios , such as the recent Sparrow or Mad Detective , that I would pull Breaking News out of my archives and give it a go too . Helmed by Johnnie To and written by Chan Hing-Ka and Yup Tin-Shing , like the other two films mentioned , this was also picked up by a European film festival ( Cannes no less ) and probably propelled To to cult like status in the West , with legions of fan ( myself included ) left almost always anticipating what's To has up his sleeves as his next offering . True , interest in the Hong Kong crime genre might be waning , but To and his band of filmmakers from Milkyway have so far never disappointed in giving the genre some breath of fresh air with each offering put on the table . Here , they managed to put a little spin on a tale between the cops , felons and the media , where the latter can be used as a double edged sword , subject to manipulation to further the political gains of either parties . Exploitation doesn't come from just the cops , because even the villains have their fare share of independent ability to put out material , thanks to new media tools for video and picture hosting . In some ways , this is a little bit like Dog Day Afternoon or 15 Minutes , but given a different take from the Fragrant Harbour . If anything , the opening scene is where the money shot is , and cement this film as a classic amongst To's filmography . It's an almost seven minute long continuous take where we get introduced to almost everyone , from the cops in question to the villains , organizing themselves to move out for their big heist , building tension when everything comes together for an all out showdown with the surveillance team hot at their heels . It's a shoot out from all fronts , and the camera captures it all in one sweeping motion , before we head toward the crowded open streets for more mayhem ala Heat , which culminates in a clip taken by the media when a beat cop surrenders in full view to the criminals , allowing them to escape instead of apprehending them . With the criminals on the loose , a cop obsessed to take them down , the police's public image being tainted , and a commissioner adamant in repairing the force's reputation , Breaking News is an enjoyable thriller with fine balance between the dramatics as well as in the action department , where SDU and PTU units get deployed to flush out the bad guys in some claustrophobic inducing cramped quarters of a block of flats . Richie Jen has this steely cool resolve as chief villain Yuen , who leads his boys from the Mainland in a game of survival , having their plans for a heist end prematurely , and finding themselves up against a hard nosed cop Cheung ( played by Nick Cheung ) , despite being armed to the teeth . Nick Cheung is pretty charismatic here in his role despite being nothing more than an action hero , though if you would like to see him in more dramatic material , then the recent Beast Stalker would be the appropriate choice . Kelly Chen rounds up the leading trio as the opportunistic Commissioner Rebecca Fong , entrusted by the upper echelons with the responsibility to restore pride to the force in the eyes of the media and public , and she goes into overdrive with her single minded focus on just that . Being a Milkyway film , some Johnnie To regulars also make their way here to lend gravitas even though in supporting roles . Simon Yam came on and suggested some romantic tangles with Chen's Fong , while Maggie Siu's cop from the PR department allowed for some measured and experienced handling both within the department , and with the media on the outside . Cheung Siu Fai was dished out a rather plain character though , more like a Yes - Man , while Yong You's character was more of a wildcard who provided the good guys an extra dimension to deal with . The affable Lam Suet's role as a dad caught between the crossfire , allowed for some interesting camaraderie forged during a hostage situation , and is now one of my favourite of his supporting roles in many of To's films . For fans of the genre and of Johnnie To , this is one movie that should not be missed . It had plenty of elements which made it genre defining , and for those who enjoy the many films of his which come with some intelligence required on the part of the good guys when hunting down their enemies , then Breaking News firmly belongs in that territory . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Mrs . Henderson Presents	Nudity , gratuitous nudity . But let's not get carried away shall we ? Mrs Henderson Presents , based loosely on real events , tells the tale of how an English theatre in London's West End called the Windmill was revived , and showcases the people involved in putting on its productions . Grand English dame Judi Dench plays Laura Henderson , a rich and recently widowed woman who is at the crossroads of what to do with her twilight years . She decides to buy an old theatre on a whim , and hires Vivian Van Damm ( Bob Hoskins ) to run it . Despite their differences , they come up with a successful hit , but like all who are the first to market and with weak barriers to entry , their innovative idea of a non-stop revue gets easily copied , and they are faced with the usual slump in their box office . Mrs Henderson then presents another idea of having nudity on stage , modelled after the French's revue , to bring in the crowds and to stand out amongst their competitors . And here's where the comedy picked up a bit , as audition calls look like American Idol and Are You Hot ? combined into one . The banter between Henderson and Lord Chamberlain ( chief censor at that time ) in order to get his permission for such a live act is memorable , as she " innocently " mouths off words that seem too vulgar for Chamberlain to utter . What appeals in the movie is how Hoskins and Dench play off their characters against each other . Their dialogue though at times vicious , are always laced with wit , especially in Dench's retorts . Dench puts up an award winning performance as an eccentric lady who spares no effort in showing her emotions when in solitude , although she does throw a childish tantrum or two around . Hoskins too held his own , though the depth that the filmmakers tried to inject into his Jewish Vivian Van Damm character seemed a little too contrived . The first half of the movie is extremely fun as the cast and crew go about attempting what has never been done before in an English theatre , but midway through the film , the pace gets jarred with the introduction of World War II and Hitler's bombing campaign over London . Subplots get introduced and got rid off faster than you can say " Bomb Raid " . You have a quick love affair , and some pondering about the war ( with a beautifully light deprived Picadilly Circus , and the raging fire engulfing much of London . But what I felt was a pity of not being played up , was the perceived rivalry between the nude models , and the actual performers who sing and dance . It was suggested at , and then forgotten altogether . While the movie has its shortcomings , Mrs Henderson's revelation will explain why she did what she did . That scene , though predictable and expected to be coming , actually gave the film a much needed closure after dangerously threading on having the plot being too scattered . The song and dance added flavour to the movie , but I hesitate to brand this movie as an outright musical . One thing though , I'm quite surprised that the censors here are quite lax with this movie , nary a cut amongst the nudity , not only of the female form ( full frontal , and back too ) , but full frontal male nudity get passed as well , which I thought was R21 territory . Perhaps it's like what the one character in the movie mentioned , so long as the humans do not move , it can be considered art , and not alluring . Perhaps , perhaps , perhaps . ( Sorry , weak attempt in trying to be musical here )
A Nutshell Review : Death Note	Absolute power corrupts absolutely , so goes the saying . What happens if you have the power to bring about death to any individual with just the mighty stroke of the pen ? How would you use your new found ability ? Would you decide to inflict capital punishment and take away lives of criminals , convicted , suspected or otherwise ? Would you be the grim reaper , transfixed in your own branding of right and wrong , backed by the power of mortality ? Based on a popular Japanese manga written by Takeshi Obata , Death Note tells the story of the god of death , bored with life , making available his Death Note ( book ) to the human world . Picked up by aspiring lawyer Light ( Tatsuya Fujiwara ) , he soon finds that the rules written in both English ( yes ) and Kanji on the inside front cover , actually work - whosoever has his name written inside the book , will meet death via a heart attack . That's just scratching the surface , as Light continues to experiment with the capabilities of the book , as well as to internalize all the rules to call upon some serious manipulation of the rules to work to his advantage . Why does the book operate with that set of rules , well , that's something you have to accept at face value if you want to enjoy the movie . Starting off with the deaths of criminals as Light experiments , soon the authorities take notice of these mysterious deaths , and launch a nationwide dragnet to hunt down the perpetrator . Foreign help is also called in , and L ( Ken'ichi Matsuyama ) , an unseen and only heard police investigator , gets roped in . It's a battle of wits as Light tries to keep his Kira persona ( given by the press ) alive while avoiding being caught by an ever zealous L , as both boys ( yes , boys ) engage and challenge each other . One to continue utilizing the notebook in more creative ways , while the other trying his best to second guess , and to see through guises and red herrings . Things become more interesting when family ties are involved , and relationships get put to the test in an interesting run up to the final scene . I thought Light's character development was crucial to the movie , and Fujiwara brought that through his role quite effortlessly with his impish looks . The god of death , a frequent companion of Light , master of the book and actually is the voice of rational thought , is totally CG rendered , which allows for its supernatural movement to be as natural as possible . However , the design does resemble Brian Bolland's Joker with its patsy white face and permanent teeth showing grin , except for its extremely huge spanned wings , and punk like hairdo . Death Note succeeds in making you sit up on the edge of your seat for the most parts - it does have certain slow moments in the movie which plods the pace down a tad too much . While it presents differing views on capital punishment , the movie itself doesn't suggest which is right or wrong , but is almost adamant in bringing forth the notion of the corruption of power . I haven't read the original manga to do a comparison , but as a movie in itself , it works , given its relatively high production values . Part 2 is already signed , sealed and soon to be delivered . I can't wait to see how the movie takes off from where it ended . Intriguing , interesting and entertaining stuff !
A Nutshell Review : Connected	When we hear of remakes , we lament Hollywood raiding Asian content , repackaging and most of the time dumbing them down for mass consumption , often to dismal results . Some get A-list cast and crew attached , while others put whoever's the flavour of the moment to attempt to be the next scream or drama queen . With Benny Chan's remake of Hollywood's Cellular , I guess the remake street cuts both ways now , and while I had enjoyed the original with Chris Evans running around like a headless chicken , I embrace this version with Louis Koo in the leading role wholeheartedly as well . As with any self-respected remake , you take key premise and scenes and mirror them somewhat accurately , stamping your unique mark on them and providing some creative spin . But what Benny Chan did in addition to that , was to throw in lots of space , so much so that it doesn't get confined to just a particular location , but uses a wide berth which is Hong Kong , from the highlands to the airport , as the playground of choice . While it runs longer than the original , you'd suspect that it either has repetitive scenes , or moments of monotony which would drag it out , since the original was quite compact with wall-to-wall action . Connected has none of that , and still maintains enough moments of thrills and spills , even for those who had watched the original and likely to guess the twists and turns . For the uninitiated , Barbie Hsu plays Grace Wong , an engineering genius , worked into the plot such that it would be reasonable for someone of her calibre to craft a makeshift phone from spare parts . Compared to the more elderly version of the damsel-in-distress played by Kim Basinger , Hsu brings forth a more energetic interpretation , not to mention a younger one too as it provides some background rooting for a hint at possible romance , since she's a single mom , and Louis Koo's single dad character , despite them spending the bulk of their screen time apart from one another . Koo plays Bob , a debt collector whose relationship with his young son is on the brink of disaster given his string of broken promises , but gets a call out of the blue requesting for urgent help . While Chris Evans may have started off his character quite cock-sure of himself , Koo's Bob here is pretty much mild mannered and timid , until such unusual circumstances bring out the tiger in him when he begins to find some courage to assert himself , in the face of irritants like a salesman from hell , and a loud mouthed convertible driver . There are little nuances put into Bob that credit has to go to Louis Koo for making it more three-dimensional , in having a guy rely on extraordinary luck to see him through challenge after challenge , of being quite clueless and one step behind for the most parts , not to mention a moments of internal tussle he suffers to decide whether to risk it all for the strange caller , or to ignore the desperate plea for help in order to save his own relationship with his son . Apple for apple comparison , the remake counterparts held their own in contribution to the movie . While we don't have a Jason Statham as the no-nonsense baddie henchman , we do get a more charismatic Liu Ye as the chief villain , and in spite of hiding his face behind shades most of the time , he does send enough fear to the opposition , and makes quite a fine villain , although not particularly a memorable one . There are enough material here to have three concurrent narrative points of view running along , with that of the captive , the seeker , and the meddler , where NicK cheung's off duty cop PC2004 ( a moniker for the year the original Cellular was released ) had more to chew on , compared to his Hollywood counterpart . The action scenes here were a little throwback to the 80s Hong Kong cop shows where heroes and villains get to duke it out in old school fashion in the final act , without police intervention until the show's literally over , but there were a couple of stunts that raised a few eyebrows . An indestructible Nissan March tearing through the streets of Hong Kong might seem a scene from Mr Nice Guy where a truck full of Pepsi got ripped through , but one of my personal favourite sequence , though short , was a full follow through of the characters right into an unexpected glass panel . If you've not seen the original , then you might just want to start with the remake instead . It surpasses in its intensity , frustration , and the leads , while almost never sharing the same scene together , individually made themselves very believable as the damsel-in-distress , and the knight in shining armour . Benny Chan adds a whole lot of fresh air to his filmography with this effort , even if it's from remake territory and adopting the same way to close the credits , but does an excellent job out of it .
A Nutshell Review : Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events	The Littlest Elf opens this movie , before being shut off Lemony Snicket's narration ( voiceover Jude Law , hey , he's everywhere in 2004 ! ) , reminding everyone that this is a movie with a sad beginning and end , and with a series of unfortunate events . We are introduced to the Baudelaire children - Violet , who has a knack of invention using things readily available ( and whose pouty lips are comparable to that of Angelina Jolie's ) , Klaus , who reads loads of books , and remembers everything , and the toddler Sunny , who . . . err . . . just bites . The first unfortunate event is the burning of their house / parents inside ( not shown ) . Suddenly they are left orphans , and are bounced from guardian to guardian , comprising of distant and weird relatives , like one who keeps strange reptiles , and another who has a fear of practically everything , but with a nuance for proper grammar . Jim Carrey is Count Olaf , their first guardian , who craves nothing but the children's ' inheritance , and schemes to get custody / kill / anything that does the trick to get the children and / or the money . Here , Carrey is on familiar playground , with multiple disguises giving him the opportunity to flex his facial muscles . But the toddler Sunny actually steals the show from Carrey , with her inability to speak , except gagas and googoos , hilarious subtitling thrown in as interpretation , and oh-so-cute actions . Awww . . . . . The storyline and narrative feel is somewhat similar in style to the Harry Potter movies - most times dark , Gothic , sinister , as the kids try and solve who did and why their parents got killed , yet at the same time showcasing and utilizing their unique abilities to get them out of sticky situations . The CGI works perfectly here , and brings to life the excitement of many set action pieces . This film has peaked my interest in the books - let's hope their not written in too childish a manner for me ! By the way , I do not know why , but all the audience left when the end credits are shown - they are drawn beautifully with caricatures and silhouettes , and the haunting score just captivates . Stay and appreciate , yeah ?
A Nutshell Review : Be Cool	A new opportunity to watch John Travolta and Uma Thurman boogie on the dance floor together , is worth the price of the admission ticket . Who could've forgotten the classic scene from Pulp Fiction where the two made trademark moves to the song " You Never Can Tell " - now both of them sizzle to the performance of the Black Eyed Peas . Perfect on-screen chemistry , and one that can rival their previous dance performance . Be Cool is the sequel to Get Shorty , while the latter parodies the film industry , this one brings along the same formula for the music industry , and it shows again that perhaps there is more than meets the eye in getting a record produced . The narrative is simple at first - as Chili Palmer ( loved that Heneiken ad by the way ) tries to inch his way , totally greenhorn , into the industry , he gets involved with the Russian mob , the hip-hop gun wielding gangsta rappers and their producer , his starlet's ex manager and his partner , and to a little extent , the cops too . And that's when the plot might get confusing to some . You have to pay close attention , otherwise you'll miss the plot filled with double , sometimes triple crossings as Palmer outwits , outplays and outlasts them all . But to those who lost the plot midway , no worries , as there are parodies galore that you can enjoy in this film , poking fun at movie sequels , at dim witted gangsters , and the script is pretty witty with its one-liners and quirky cast of many . Or you can enjoy the musical performances like Black Eyed Peas , Aerosmith and of course , Christina Milian . While John Travolta plays it cool ( seems like he always breezes through his films these days with a " devil may care " air ) , and Uma Thurman looking beautiful as always , it is Vince Vaughn and The Rock who steal the movie from right under all the other casts noses . Vince Vaughn's take on his cowardly character who acts like he's " Black " ( with ghetto speak and all ) is top notch , and The Rock as a wussy faggot bodyguard always get you in stitches when he's on screen - he even parodies his own " People's Eyebrow " ! Be warned that this film may not be enjoyable for everyone ( especially for those who are impatient and can't wait to get to the chase ) , but be cool , and enjoy the ride .
A Nutshell Review : Angel	Based on the novel by Elizabeth Taylor , this Francois Ozon directed movie was the closing film of the Berlin Film Festival last year , and while it played out like a biography of a fictional character , you can't help but to imagine how close it seemed to the flamboyance of the other Liz Taylor being infused into the titular character . Movies based on biographies , such as Miss Potter with Rene Zellweger and La Vie En Rose with Marion Cotillard , seem to follow a formula of rags to riches , and basically living the dream that no one had imagined was possible . Naturally , being blessed with a talent and a gift helps too , and with Angel Deverell ( Romola Garai ) , hers was a steely resolve of wanting to break out of her poverty cycle through her writing , an aspiring novelist with limited life experience , relying solely on her vivid imagination to paint literary marvels with her firm grasp of language , constructing sentences like a wordsmith many times her age . What made her character compelling to watch and follow , is her living in a fantasy world she constructs for herself , which suits her perfectly as it provides for and fuels her imagination with romantic stories to enchant and endear herself to her readers . It shields her from her insecurities , but in doing so , she slowly isolates herself into her view of Paradise , and becomes a chronic liar , which I felt she's constantly aware of , but is ashamed to admit any stain in the perfect world . Delivered in two distinct acts , things start to change when she meets the Howe-Nevisons . Nora ( Lucy Russell ) , probably her # 1 fan who simply worships the ground she treads on , and offers to be her personal assistant , and her brother Esme ( Michael Fassbender from 300 who said they'll fight in the shade ! ) , with whom Angel falls head over heels for . And this stifling relationship takes a toil on all parties involved , with shades of possible lesbianism played down in the film ( though I'm unsure what became of it in the novel ) . While Angel had her break from Theo ( Sam Neill ) the publisher who believed in her , Esme the aspiring painter has none , besides Angel who would probably say Yes to anything he says . And his portrait of her probably was the highlight for me in the movie . If a portrait painter needs to , and can peer directly into your innermost soul and bring whatever qualities he sees in you onto the canvas , then Esme would have succeeded with his god-ugly picture of Angel , reinforces meaning of being beautiful on the outside . but ugly on the inside . The special effects were quite badly done , and perhaps deliberately too , as it's made up of very obviously superimposed shots of backgrounds that no longer exist because of modernization . Other than that , the rest of the production values are high , and the costumes too which Angel decked herself in , are quite a sight to behold , especially when there's a call for a change in colours to reflect the mood of the story as it wore on . But what made this movie very palatable , is how Romola Garai carried the role through the story . You can just about believe the very naiveness and devil may care attitude that her Angel brings , however always seemingly able to hide and bury her true feelings deep within herself , and being a master manipulator also helped loads . Like how Charlotte Rampling's character of the publisher's wife reflected , you just can't help but to pity Angel , despite her pomp , flamboyance and hypocrisy . So if you're interesting in a movie that provides avenue for an intriguing study of a person putting on a very fake mask , then Angel , despite its title , will be the movie for you to examine human traits which are anything but angelic .
A Nutshell Review : Runaway Jury ( 2003 )	This was the last John Grisham book I've read in chronological order , starting from The Firm , and all of them thus far have been made into relatively successful movies with big names attached to the projects . While most of them have stuck fairly accurately to the source material ( The Chamber by far was the most accurate , but therefore least interesting in my opinion ) , this one took a lot of liberty by swinging the main " baddies " from tobacco companies , to gun companies . Not that it would have mattered a lot , given that both have the propensity to kill people . This film lends itself to some serious pondering on the jury system over the powers of the judge to determine the fate of the case . But with the jury system open to possible manipulation and tampering , like what was shown , perhaps there could never be a 100 % foolproof way of ensuring that crime pays accurately . Justice is blind ? It's the third outing for Gene Hackman in a movie adapted from Grisham . He started off opposite Tom Cruise in The Firm , then opposite Chris O'Donnell in The Chamber , and now , stars as jury consultant cum manipulator Rankin Fitch , who has a team of upbeat high tech investigators in the game of ensuring that the jury is handpicked by them , for a particular case . It's highly interesting to see the way they apply assumptions , surveillance and various digging of skeletons of potential jurors , for the defence lawyer played by Bruce Davison , best known as Senator Kelly in the X-Men series . Up against the defence is another powerhouse actor , Dustin Hoffman , as lawyer Wendell Rohr . Having Hoffman and Hackman pair up , for the very first time , is cinematic history in the making . Watch out for the washroom scene where these 2 share some very intense , argumentative moment together . John Cusack and Rachel Weisz stars as Nicholas Easter and Marlee respectively , a team whose motive doesn't get revealed initially , other than to blackmail Rohr and Fitch into guaranteeing the jury's verdict in the favour of the one who can pay their 10 million dollars . To Fitch , they're small time players in this cat-and-mouse game , but he realizes that having an inside guy , in this case , Easter , who's on the jury , may prove to be just that guarantee he needs . Rohr , on the other hand , being more morally upright , struggles to come to terms with probably losing his case to a pair of hustlers . While you may have read Grisham's novel , Runaway Jury will still keep you guessing , at least the motives of Easter and Marlee , up until the very last scene . My favourite adaptation until now has always been A Time To Kill , starring Matthew McConaughey in his first lead role , with Samuel L Jackson . But Runaway Jury has air-dropped itself into joint number one spot , as I eagerly anticipate the next John Grisham adaptation . Any news , anyone ?
A Nutshell Review : Red Cliff II	It's been a six month wait for the second and final half to John Woo's magnum opus Red Cliff , and for those familiar with the classic but have not watched the first installment , the director doesn't waste time in bringing you up to speed with an excellent summary , so much so that the transitional technique used was carried over to the main movie proper . And for those who complained about the pigeon soaring over the sky overseeing a football game at the Cao Cao ( Zhang Fengyi ) camp , there're perfect explanations for those too . Yes , just when you think it was frivolous of Woo to have added his signature pigeon shots just for the heck of it , you'll be more than pleased to know that the feathered friends do serve a valid purpose here , as does the football match which introduces a sub plot which again I suspect will give way in the truncated version meant for Western markets . We continue where we last left off , and get to see Vicky Zhao's Sun ShangXiang in an expanded role which is crucial to the overall plotting and strategizing of the finale battle , knocking a bit of the shine off the well known characters of Tony Leung's Zhou Yu and Takeshi Kaneshiro's Zhuge Liang . But don't fret , as there's still ample and well known episodes where the two men get to show off their cunningness and shrewdness in getting their respective one-ups against their common rival . But alas Zhuge Liang gets to become a clear second fiddle here , since he's all brains but absolutely no brawn , and get left out of fisticuffs , putting his firm grasp of mother nature to the test , that the elements also play a fair bit of tipping advantage . Fans of the character though will smile at recognizable anecdotes presented that have given rise to Chinese proverbs . By now , one would already know that Zhou Yu is the primary focus of the show ( I think Chow Yun-Fat is regretting ) , given that he's a well rounded man blessed with brains and brawn , and a beautiful wife to boot too . He's honour and duty bound to protect the southern territory of Sun Quan ( Zhang Chen ) , but this becomes something more personal when Xiao Qiao ( Lin Chiling ) takes it into her own hands to buy the defenders some time by crossing over to Cao Cao and to play the proverbial beauty capable of mesmerizing the prime minister . And her performance in this film was a lot more effective than the last . In fact , the two female characters get meatier roles to play , and for someone like John Woo , I can't remember the last time where he had strong female characters in his films , so this was a treat . Somehow , Red Cliff 2 ended with a whimper unfortunately , which is a pity . The build up is excellent par none , prepping the audience for the big showdown . Those who had lamented the lack of big battle sequences in the first film , well , you can continue to lament as this one only had ONE which takes up almost the last hour . It's execution , pure and simple , putting into motion what has been planned , and the relentless clockwork that every plan had to follow . While the first film had provided for the famed generals of Liu Bei to each have their individual show pieces to highlight their fighting prowess , this one had none as most of the lead characters0 got relegated to support status , except for Zhao Yun ( Hu Jun ) whom John Woo has an affinity for . Fans of Woo's style will see his signature stamped in a lot of action sequences here , which were muted somewhat in the first installment . With Zhao Yun and Zhou Yu , one can tell Woo was probably brimming with glee to design the action set pieces for these two warriors , reminiscent of many of his signature brotherhood series , trading guns for swords here . The two trade barbs of camaraderie , and fight alongside each other , feeding off each other's moves . They battle in parallel , perfectly framed as if in split screen , and I think it's inevitable to have the hero and villain in a stand-off , with support from everyone else wondering who will make the next move . And here's where purists will be up in arms again , because of how the film ended , which went askew from what would have happened , involving both Cao Cao and Guan Yu and that flight of retreat . But I guess if Peter Jackson had some liberties taken , then Woo too should be cut some slack in order to dramatize Red Cliff for the screen . So too would fans of the other characters be upset , because you don't see much of your idols in action here , which mostly got relegated to plenty of pretty fireballs and raging flames on just much everything , and arrows being the weapon of choice for mass destruction here . Individual , stylized fight scenes no longer are the highlight as per the previous film . On the whole it's been a long while since I'd seen an epic of this scale from Chinese cinema , and thank goodness that the rumoured , cringe-worthy lines of dialogue are just that - rumours and nowhere to be found . Come awards time , I'd expect this film to be raking some major accolades . Despite its minute flaws , this is still highly recommended just to complete the saga , and I think I'll get the DVD of both parts should they come in one combined edition .
A Nutshell Review : The Alpha Diaries	2 . 5 ( and now 2 ) years of active service during the prime of our lives , and 13 ( now 10 ) cycles of reservist duty thereafter . ASk any male in Singapore about their national obligation and you're gonna get a myriad of colourful views , some of which of course are unprintable here . But as we're conditioned , National Service is a rite of passage , and frankly it's where great bonds are forged , where you live with , play with and work your butts off as a unit fulfilling some mission objectives . It's an open secret that the pioneer batches of conscripts were trained by the Israeli army , and similar to our IPPT which is dumbed down from the US Marines standard , so too is the duration of service as compared to the IDF , where at aged 18 they become soldiers for 3 years , before serving 20 years of reservist where they're called back for 30 days each time . That's double of what we're obligated to serve , barring those holding officer ranks and appointments . I guess the environment they operate in is vastly different from Singapore's , where here a two week high key stint sees us fighting " ghosts " , while there it is as great a reality check can be , with real danger potentially lurking at every corner . As with any conscript army , they face the same issues that we do , especially when we get notification of our call up , and literally bitch about it , until we report back , see our buddies , reminisce the good old days , and work together to perform whatever's necessary in order to go back to our loved ones , and on with our lives . And having a group of men banded together spells nothing but comedy when we let loose in base camps , and I can attest to some of the shenanigans shown in this documentary , could rival those that happen in our camps too . There will always be that misgivings about living life in olve green where we turn into beasts , and those who are featured in this film , do not mince their words in sharing their frustrations about the system as well . Yaniv Berman's documentary was filmed in the last 5 years of his reservist , between the years of 2002 and 2006 , and offers an unflinching look at their operations from the ground level , through the eyes of the riflemen in his Alpha company . While we do not get the details of operations , since after all every military operation is secret , I thought that such a film could not have existed in the first place , and I was wrong . It's hard to imagine that permission would even be granted for an independent filmmaker to try and attempt to document something like this here in Singapore , which would probably offer a whole lot of honest insights into the psyche of the troops who are disrupting their lives to serve . But what I found more powerful in this film , is not the parallels that we can identify with . Rather it's the nature of the troops ' mission and operations each time they hit the road , that surprisingly was allowed to be featured in this documentary . Besides the usual sentry or guarding duties , they perform raids in the occupied territories , where the soldiers go from house to house in the dead of the night , barging into apartments in skeletal battle order and conducting searches for , I presume , contraband and those deemed wanted . Pointing their guns at faces , men get separated from the women and children and interrogated , the entire house turned upside down in order to conduct a thorough search and so on . One could only imagine the intense humiliation a family has to go through , probably repeatedly by different companies , and if there's any violation of basic rights , this is it . It's no wonder that the Palestinans vent their frustration where they can , some express it through the throwing of rocks at the Israeli convoy's APC , to the laughter of the soldiers knowing that they are untouchable from within . It's almost like a cowboy town where the rule of law becomes the rule of those who have weapons . It's a little unsettling to witness locked doors being hacked at ( really heavy metal doors actually ) and if unsuccessful with the sledge hammer , some explosives are the order of the day . Even the soldiers themselves , in an interview , admit to the unpleasantness and wouldn't want to be at the other end of this , and like true soldiers , they follow orders , not questioning them , whether morally they know it is not right . You can feel that there's nothing personal , but they're carrying out their day to day orders in counting down to the day where they will be obligation-free , and the intense joy that comes with that day , whether it be celebrating because they are free from the shackles of being called back , or free from executing humiliating orders , or both . I guess that's what life in olive green fatigues could degenerate into . We may lose our humanity once we don the colours and behave badly . Complain as we may , we understand the need of a defence force though not all may agree with it , preferring a professional outfit to a conscript model . There will always be that inconvenience to balance , but after this , I do prefer to fight phantoms than to be under unknown enemy fire , or tasked to carry out duties that will put your morality under heavy questioning , conscience being masked by leaving your brains with your civvies .
A Nutshell Review : Rocky Balboa	I enjoyed Rocky Balboa tremendously , even though it was formulaic and probably a carbon copy of the original in terms of telling an underdog's tale . Written and directed by Sylvester Stallone , this is very much his comeback movie as it is for his character Rocky Balboa , when the fifth installment of the franchise was considered the weakest of the lot , and a let down to its predecessors . When the movie was announced , many people snickered and wrote it off outright , as being nothing new to offer on the table , of letting dead dogs lie , that Stallone was out of ideas and needed to revisit past glories to try and get his career back on track . However , Rocky Balboa , although it goes full circle and back to the original , is one that is plenty of heart as it parallels loosely the challenges of an ex-star trying to make a return . Of having to address that fire in the belly , of , like Rocky says , clearing stuff in the basement . In this movie , it's been many years since Rocky last fought in the ring , and now into semi - retirement with his laid back style of running an Italian restaurant ( with Mexican cooks ) named Adrian's ( after his wife ) , sharing ring action stories with his diners , and pining for his deceased wife . A computerized mock fight between Rocky and the current World Heavyweight Champ Mason The Line Dixon ( Antonio Tarver ) sparked that feeling of wanting to enter the ring inside Rocky , and what I found intriguing was Mason Dixon actually , and the state of the affairs he represents - those without heart , no passion , in it for the money , and competitors who give up easily when the going gets tough . It's not easy being the champion when you have weak competition , and the publicity machinery go into overdrive in setting up a win-win situation between the two fighters . Don't expect much interaction between Rocky and Dixon , as they leave most of their combined screen time to the ring . And for those who thinks that this movie is all about slugging it out , are you so wrong . I tip my hat to Stallone for actually writing a movie with adequate sensitivity , in further developing the Rocky character in his twilight years , and that examination of family life , of developing passion in the things that you do . Rocky Jr ( now played by Milo Ventimiglia ) forms the main emphasis of this examination , of having to grow up in his father's huge shadow , of being the offspring of someone famous , and the tendency of blaming everyone but himself for his being miserable . That dialogue between father and son , I thought was almost what every father and son relationship would have grappled with at one point or another , and it rings home the message , even as you feel that lump in the throat forming . I felt the much touted bout between Rocky and Dixon was actually quite plain , with fast forwarding used as well as freeze frames , but somehow , the intensity , power , aggression still rang through . In fact , I was almost at the edge of my seat as Rocky and Dixon slugged it out in brutal fashion - gladiator against gladiator , the experienced against the fleet footed , the old school of hard knocks versus the emptiness of current glamour . And there were the classic iconic moments which get repeated , like that run up the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art , that all too familiar musical theme blaring in the background , and the training montage which all but sends goosebumps . The coming together of familiar faces , of old friends , and family , make this very much an ensemble piece orchestrated to an incredible crescendo when it mattered . Rocky Balboa is a fitting finale to the franchise , a worthy tribute and a fitting farewell to a legendary , enduring screen hero who's finally decided to hang up his gloves . I won't be surprised that this movie will actually win over some new fans to the original movies , and one thing's for sure , I'm sold , and I'm recommending this .
A Nutshell Review : Dreamgirls	Dreamgirls had garnered 8 nominations in the upcoming Academy Awards , but somehow missed out on all the main categories like Picture , Director , and the Actor and Actress nominations . Based on the Broadway musical , with new songs added for the movie ( 3 of which are in the running for Best Song ) , it tells of a group of singers ' meteoric rise in the music industry in the 60s , and on their trials and tribulation which plague any successful singing group . If the previous years had musical dramas like Ray and Walk the Line taking their fair share of honors , then this year it's expected that Dreamgirls follow the same formula and footsteps , only that instead of actors , this movie boasts two actual singers in its lineup , one an American Idol reject , Jennifer Hudson , and the other , bone-fide singing sensation Beyonce Knowles , who finally is casted in a movie which allowed her to show off her performing chops , rather than just her body in Austin Powers : Goldmember , or a dumb downed singer role in Pink Panther . Reported rivalry between the two ? I'm not sure why the fuss , but clearly , Knowles had taken a back seat and the movie actually allowed ample screen time , and singing time , for Hudson to shine . While Knowles ' performance is way polished , and her fans eager for her character to take the limelight , it doesn't happen until almost an hour into the movie , during which she happily sings as one of the dream triplets . Hudson on the other hand , put up a more heartfelt performance in a role which had a little more depth , and I'm of the opinion that her Oscar for supporting actress , is almost signed , sealed and delivered . One thing to note though if you're watching this movie in a theatre equipped with a decent sound system , listen out ( ! ) for Hudson's eardrum busting vocals . Rounding up the star studded cast are veterans like Danny Glover , and two comedians turned serious performers Eddie Murphy ( whose Norbit opens soon ) , and Jamie Foxx . Murphy stars as Jimmy Early , a successful singer in the small time circuit , who seems contended with his comfort zone , and Foxx , in a meatier role , as Curtis Taylor Jr , a car salesman who , in his discovery of the Dreamers and his wheelings and dealings , built up a music empire of his own . I thought Foxx's character was villainous in a certain way , a man blinded by success and becoming one of his own pet peeves . And yes , everyone in this movie sings . Eddie Murphy's performance is almost always full of energy , but fans of Foxx , don't count on him singing too much though , since he's already done his fair bit with Ray . Dreamgirls is a musical , so expect characters to break out in a song or two , or at times just a line or two . I didn't expect it to happen the way it did though , and was slightly taken aback when songs get interjected into dialogue , so you'll have to remind yourself it's a musical and it's perfectly normal . Loosely based on the Supremes ' rise to fame , it tells of the prejudice and dirty tricks employed to get your way to the fame game . Having a good voice and nifty performances don't just cut it , you'll need a manager who's just as sly and cunning to work your way to the big league . And at times , talent gives way to how the business want things to be done . In the name of record selling and profits , you give what audiences want , compromising craft if you have to . Otherwise you'll have to be prepared to ship out . And it is during their climb to fame , that each character have to face up to changes , whether they like it or not , including replacing leads , or changing styles . You'll see how fame and fortune can corrupt , how envy and jealousy get in the way of something good , and wonder if being unscrupulous is the only way to survive . Besides the business aspect , love and relationships also complicate matters , with perceived love triangles and breakups amongst the team causing more harm than good . And a common theme running throughout is just how much you'd love somebody , whether as a person , or a product that you can milk for profits . Great costumes , great singing , great songs , great stage performances and a star cast , Dreamgirls has all the ingredients to what makes a successful musical movie . One thing to note though , I thought the end credits contained a nice touch with its showing of clips relating to what the crew did for the movie . You don't see that kind of a presentation too often .
A Nutshell Review : The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Resistance is useless ! Don't panic ! The answer is . . . 42 ! I've read Douglas Adams ' book The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy once , as a young kid , so I can't really remember the details , and therefore , can't comment from a purist's point of view ( heh , wish I had the Point of View Gun ) . What I can do however , is review the movie as it is , from a cinematic experience . And it's fantastic ! From the opening narrative , characterization , beautiful stunning CGI , especially on the creation of Earth , this film seems to do no wrong . The wit and dry humour play an important part , though some might not get all the jokes . And key to it all is the intelligent way in which the creators recreate The Hitchhiker's Guide - where slick animation vividly brings forth the tips and tricks to living life in the Galaxy . The characters are always the highlight , and rightfully so . Who can forget Marvin the manically depressed robot , who ( ! ) is brought to life on the silver screen . Sam Rockwell shines as the narcissistic President of the Galaxy Zaphod Beeblebrox . Martin Freeman does a commendable job as Brit Arthur Dent , whose home is set for demolition for a highway ( oh , the irony of it all ) , and Zooey Deschanel provides the eye candy as sassy Trillian . Mos Def as Ford Perfect rounds off the galaxy adventurers . The cameo by John Malkovich proves hilarious as Humma Kavula , religious cult leader waiting for the next big sneeze - Bless you ! And I can sense the audience eagerly awaiting the appearance of Deep Thought , spouting that immortal line , the answer to the ultimate question of life , the universe and everything . . . While you wonder at the marvels of technology in this sci-fi film ( hey , there's a spoof from Star Wars ) , underlying it all is a simple love story that develops between Arthur and Trillian , and the challenges of admitting your affections to your partner . Stay tuned during the end credits , as you get another Hitchhiker's Guide entry , which explains the aftermath of what happened after Arthur uttered the final words . I've enjoyed this film tremendously , and I feel it should appeal to non-fans of the book as well , probably reining them in to read it . I know I would . To Douglas , for creating this classic and developing new material for the film . So long , and thanks for the fish !
A Nutshell Review : L'Avventura	We follow Anna ( Lea Massari ) and Claudia ( Monica Vitti ) as they prepare themselves for a sea excursion with a group of friends , which includes Sandro ( Gabriele Ferzetti ) whom Anna has not seen in a month . However , this time apart didn't make the heart grow fonder for Anna , and to me , I thought she was indeed a hard woman to please , probably because Sandro couldn't satisfy her , both physically and emotionally . And to think that I've experienced for myself the incomprehensible emotion interpreted through an uttered " I want to be alone " statement before , Anna's cold reaction toward Sandro leaves him perplexed , confused and likely in frustration , as her no-reply to his probing eventually causes indifference . Come to think of it , all three are quite unlikeable characters , easily with flaws that we can identify with ourselves . For Anna , if she had not consciously chosen to make herself scarce , then it's quite highly irresponsible for her to do a Houdini , and take off without a trace , knowing that in any group excursions , your friends are likely to ( unless you made bad choices on who you call friends ) exhaust all possibilities in their search for your whereabouts . Despite it being a small rock island , it is still fairly large with its varying landscapes , and dizzying , dangerous cliffs . And like Lost the television series fashion , a number of strange incidents occur , such as an Australian who appeared from nowhere in the rain , and the sounds of many unseen , but heard of , boats , which continue to plant ideas in your mind . Making up a shark incident too to spoil the day for others just because you're feeling lousy , tells of a very selfish nature . So it's probably good riddance that we never see her ever again . It made me wonder too if love lost and wanting to be alone meant ditching all your current friends and current lifestyle , in order to bury memories and start everything afresh , which is quite an extreme behaviour . So therein lies the mystery as to why the story chose to left this thread hanging . It's never fully resolved , and there are a number of theories proposed at one point or another in the narrative , but that's just it . And if you suppose with the attention now shifted to Sandro and Claudia would make things better , it just turned out to be a tip of the iceberg . I thought Antonioni's debut feature Story of a Love Affair took off from a tangent , and there were some similar parallels between the relationships of the two lovers then , and now between Claudia and Sandro . In the former movie , the lovers were kept apart by the existence of another woman . Here , the opportune with Claudia's absence set the lovers free , and paved way for the two to succumb to the advances of each other like animal magnetism . Claudia was apprehensive about throwing caution to the wind , as with most rebound cases , and almost always feel guilty about the speed at which they fall into each other's arms . Having the fear of Anna potentially re-appearing as sudden as her disappearance , repeatedly cast doubts into her new found relationship with Sandro . Sandro continues the unflattering look at the weakness of male characters in Antonioni films . He might seem like a cad for having to forget his lover Anna at a drop of the hat , but frankly it looked as if a big weight had been lifted from his shoulders , that he need not try to appease the whims of an unreasonable woman . In 3 days he moved from what could possibly be a tragedy with Anna's unknown , unproven demise , and went ahead to forge a new romance . While he relentlessly tried to pursue the truth , in his frustration his ugly demeanour reared its ugly head , in a scene I thought was particularly interesting where he ruined a perfect work-in-progress , by spilling black ink all over it . He's a man with a roving eye , and once he had tasted the liberating forbidden fruit , probably craved for more , hence his additional dalliances with someone I thought would have been a closer resemblance toward what he had lost . It's a tale of two halves , with the first dwelling on the mystery and its background and circumstance leading toward it , and the second essentially became like a road trip which focused on the aftermath of the characters . A running element in both halves are the time that Antonioni devoted to look at relationships , with 2 supporting sets of couples placed strategically into the story for comparison and contrast purpose . Looking at it , it seemed that married couples do have some loss in romanticism in their relationships , especially personified through Guila ( Dominique Blanchar ) and Corrado ( James Addams ) , where the latter almost always chide and mocks his wife's less than keen observations . And for Guila , given the lack of respect from her husband , and being constantly flattered by a certain Prince Goffredo ( Giovanni Petrucci ) meant that Corrado will have to wear a green hat as she conscientiously drifted toward the lavish attention paid , and reciprocated physically . Perhaps I failed to appreciate various subtleness in the finale which I suddenly felt the minutes tick by , in sequences that were hugely devoid of dialogue , but filled with moody melancholy , revelation and betrayal . There were hands that looked like they could strangle someone , but started to ease off and ruffled some hair instead , as if to say all was understood , forgiven , and all could be well . At least that's my interpretation of it , as with life , we see things from our own perspective , and is indeed a challenge to step back and take a broader , objective look at what had transpired .
A Nutshell Review : Sumpah Pontianak	Sumpah Pontianak is the third in a trilogy of Pontianak films directed by B Narayan Rao ( the first two being Pontianak , and Dendam Pontianak ) and starring Maria Menado in the title role . For the uninitiated , Pontianak is a female spirit whose powers are similar to a doppelganger , able to shift shape into various animals ( in this film , an owl ) , and of course , a beautiful woman . The movie , for the first time in those days filmed in CathayScope , opens smack in the middle of action ; Chomel laments her ill fate of being cursed to have the blood of Pontianak coursing through her veins , and a nail hammered into her neck by the villagers have rendered her powerless . Chomel has a daughter Maria ( not Menado by the way - another actress , Maria Menado plays Chomel the Pontianak ) who is married to the son of a village datok . Maria pines for her Ibu ( mother ) , and leaves the village , sparking a frantic search by her husband and his gang of comedic friends , who add humour and folk songs to the narrative . In other news , there are various mysterious deaths in a neighbourhood kampong , and all fingers point at Pontianak . There is nothing horrific about this show when viewed today , with Pontianak's rubbery face mask , with massive scarring , hooked nose , long and white ungainly hair , and two vicious stuck on fangs , and it didn't diminish the fun factor when watching the show . Many of the other monsters , like the cave savage ( bad makeup ) , and the Hantu Raya ( a zombie which can turn into a human sized bat complete with wings and the ability to fly ) are also made up similarly , but the bottomline is , it's real fun , and real cheesy . Pontianak plays like Frankenstein , one of its contemporaries in the 50s horror black and white movies , with the gathering of villagers / mobs in search of the monster with their torches and pitchforks / farm equipment , and of course , when chanced upon Pontianak herself , they will turn and run in all directions . However , in this film , Pontianak is not the villain , but rather the anti-heroine who must use her powers to defeat all evil doers and protect her daughter at the same time , who has a knack for getting herself into trouble . Sort of like Godzilla Vs ( whoever it is ) . For horror buffs who want to revisit the classical monsters of yesteryear , don't miss this one - it's a tale from this side of the world !
A Nutshell Review : Happy Feet	There was a documentary last year which made waves both critically and at the box office . It was a celebration of nature , of life , danger , and death as seen through the eyes of Emperor Penguins in the Antarctica . If you had seen that documentary , then the first 10 minutes of Happy Feet will be familiar territory , as it probably summarized a whole lot of the mating game , into the introductory act . Happy Feet tells the story of an offspring Emperor Penguin of Norma Jean ( voiced by Nicole Kidman ) and Memphis ( Hugh Jackman ) . With that distinctive mole placement and swagger , it's actually Marilyn Monroe and Elvis done as animated feather friends , romanticizing each other and eventually have a son aptly named Mumble , born with a defect , save for those distinctively sky blue eyes of Elijah Wood . A heart song is what the Emperor Penguins use to attract their mates , but true to his namesake , Mumble can't sing for nuts and can only , surprise , tap dance , much to the chagrin of the conservative elders . It's perhaps a given that those cute baby penguins which melted the hearts of many in March of the Penguins , get featured so prominently here in Happy Feet . Milking them for what they're worth , this movie pours in a lot more crowd favourites like dance . So you have yet another animated movie in this year's glut of offerings , in yet another movie about dance , a dash of comedy fused with familiar songs weaved together in a medley , and voila ! Instant formula for success ! I must admit I was initially apprehensive that Happy Feet will be able to pull it off and had somewhat low expectations , given some mediocre Hollywood animated movies being produced . But true enough , I was sold after 10 minutes . The animation is photo-realistic , and probably is the next best thing of having being in the Antarctica , or watching the real one on screen . If the animals in the movie quit talking , you might just think that they're for real . The characters too manage to endear themselves to you , with Robin Williams staging a coup with his voice performance of two penguin characters , one a smooth talking leader of a pack of Adelie penguins with Latino accents ( their antics reminiscent of those in Madagascar , only a lot more laid back ) , and of a know-it-all Guru who answers any questions in exchange for pebbles . Brittany Murphy can sing too , as she lends her voice to Mumble's love interest , and THE babe of the colony , Gloria . Hugo Weaving too is in the movie , and so is the late Steve Irwin . It's no wonder that at the helm of this movie is director George Miller , also an Australian ( say , there's quite a number of Australian's lending their voices here ) While it's generally a feel good movie , there's a good portion of the movie well hidden away from the trailers , in case you have the nagging misconception that there's nothing too interesting about watching a story of an underdog outcast working his way , cutting across discrimination to win the girl of his dreams . At one point , I thought the movie could have gone the way that Steven Spielberg's AI had gone , because it certainly felt that way . Also , there's a very rushed message on conservation , and in fact , the finale felt that it got truncated just to end the way it had . Christmas season's coming , and a tale rooted in family ties , friendship , and the return of the prodigal son , makes it satisfyingly enjoyable . Parents would probably check out if the toy stores carry baby penguin plush toys . Should be a hit with the kids , after the movie .
A Nutshell Review : Sharkwater	Blame it on its many teeth , giving it a perception that it can cut through flesh and bone . And no thanks to movies like Jaws , which has set that perception in stone that sharks are extremely dangerous creatures that have one mission , and that's to eradicate human swimmers from the sea . How do you try and convince what is generally " accepted truths " by the masses ? You go at it small , with persistence , that fire in the belly to fuel your crusade in re-educating the masses , and the best example being yourself taking the plunge to try and set things right , one step at a time . That's what Rob Stewart did , in trying to change the incorrect mindsets we have of sharks , by demonstrating to us how they are actually more afraid of us , and making a documentary film out of it to spread the good message . Don't let the poster fool you into thinking it's a fictional , narrative film . It's a documentary , and like most documentaries , it has an agenda to cover . Here , Stewart's agenda is simple , to talk about shark conservation , and the importance of the ocean ecosystem . Yes , it's a myriad of topics that can spiral out of control , but strangely enough , the key points are all presented in a compelling manner , against very beautiful underwater images of marine life , the very life he is seeking , on the bigger picture , to try and save . Naturally , one doesn't talk about saving the sharks without touching on the demand side of things , and that is the perceived value of a delicacy called the Shark's Fin Soup , which is a staple in any self-respecting Chinese restaurant . While the usual illegal poaching through long lining and footage of skinning are aimed to shock an audience into the cruelty of the way the sharks are destroyed , the biggest impact made here are the frivolous statements given by the chairman of a prominent brand of canned shark's fin soup . You will definitely chuckle at his arguments , or the lack thereof in the intelligence department , as he's made to look quite animated , and not in good light , deliberately of course . Some might feel that the movie did seem a little like an ego-trip for Rob Stewart , with himself being featured quite prominently in many scenes , but I thought it's a given because it is a trip along a journey he's bringing us , and that's why we see some of the inherent risks involved in the many conservationists efforts as they go out to try and stop , with limited budget and resources , the perennial problem of trying to stem out the supply side of things . Naturally , it's never easy with the illegal trade , as shady corporations , characters and corrupt governments are almost always involved , because that's how the activity can thrive , and it boils down to obscene amount of profits to be made by all parties . Through documentaries that touch on current hot topics involving the environment , it's hard to tell how effective they can be . I guess a good measure if how convinced you are to the cause , and from the documentary , try to reinforce the message yourself to your peers . Simple actions done by a few , can go a long way , and I guess the simplest of ways is to start from yourself . An Inconvenient Truth has made me more diligent in electricity utilization , and now Sharkwater has convinced me to layoff the shark's fin soup , whether they come in cans , or presented in wedding dinners . I have a choice , and I choose not to consume it . You might laugh at the futility of my actions , or want to take my share , but go ahead please , as I'm exercising my choice , a choice which you have too . Watch Sharkwater . You might be convinced by the arguments for the cause too . If not , it's still an educational trip in learning more about sharks and the ocean ecosystem , with a stark warning not to tamper with the natural order of Mother Nature . Highly recommended , naturally .
A Nutshell Review : A Good Year	The first time director Ridley Scott and actor Russell Crowe paired together , they made the award winning Gladiator , and perhaps surprised folks that a mainstream action movie could snag the best picture Oscar . Here , they come together again for a pretty feel good movie , but I don't expect that this would win any major honours . Not that it's a bad film , but it's quite vanilla plain , that you could guess every other step of how the narrative and plot will unfold . Based on a book by Peter Mayle , A Good Year has plenty of life references to wine and vineyards , made as a comparison and reminder on how to live life . It's quite unlike Sideways , which was more of a road trip movie and had its plot revolve around wine . A Good Year has its revolve around an arse hole of a character , Maximillian Skinner ( Russell Crowe ) , the successful bond trader everyone loves to hate , given his ruthless knack on the trading bourses , and making loads of obscene money . So he learns that he had inherited a château in France , the same one he had spent his childhood ( little Max played by Freddie Highmore ) summer holidays in with his Uncle Henry ( Albert Finney ) , but instead the first thing that crosses his mind is , how much is it worth should he sell it ? It's a look at how you want to live life , making loads of money versus living it out with plenty of heart , and love . Love for the people who once made a difference to your life , and love and appreciation of life itself . Time to stop and smell the roses , versus the corporate rat race filled with backstabbing and office politics . And naturally when finding out about oneself , a look back at one's roots will always be a good way to start . There are a number of sub plots weaved into the movie , like the sudden appearance of a possible illegitimate cousin , Christie ( Abbie Cornish ) , who could complicate matters of inheritance , of the opposition of resident vineyard caretaker Francis ( Didier Bourdon ) , and of course , romance in the form of a feisty French woman Fanny ( Marion Cotillard ) , amongst others . There's also a bit about the different wine standards thrown in , which serves only to confuse , rudimentarily . There's a ring of familiarity to these characters , and at a glance , you would probably be able to guess the parts they play to develop the story , as do the little nagging business bits in the movie , but by making all these threads come together , and certain plot devices as well , only served to deliver up to expectations in an all's well that ends well . Some random thoughts - I loved the song by Alizee used in the movie , and quite surprised that it actually made it other than just be featured in the trailer . The movie also turned out to be quite the technological showcase , at least in the beginning , accompanying Max's progressive change . You have GPS , and almost an ad feel to Max's use of his PDA phone for calls , photo taking , the whole works . And if you think Crowe's outfits looked snazzy , yes , he's outfitted by Armani . The very first time I took notice of Russell Crowe , was when he played the villain in Virtuosity . Back then I thought that the guy had something going for him . And I've been convinced , having watched his last 6 movies , that he's a pretty fine actor , though his buffed and gruff demeanour had the tabloids highlighting his every shenanigan . Albert Finney and Freddie Highmore make a good pairing as well , given their limited screen time as the Uncle and his young nephew spending summer together . And don't get me started on the eye candy , who , well , remain eye candy for the most parts . A Good Year runs on an even keel , and feels light by the time it ends . Let's hope the next collaboration between Scott and Crowe in American Gangster , with the addition of Denzel Washington ( who played opposite Crowe in Virtuosity ) , will be something more explosive . " Winning's not everything , it's the only thing ! " - Maximillian Skinner
A Nutshell Review : Crows : Episode 0	Directing a movie based on a manga isn't something new for Japanese auteur Takashi Miike , who also adapted the ultra-violent Ichi the Killer for the big screen . However , with Crows : Episode 0 , gone are the extreme violence , though it still retains some flavour normally found in a typical action flick . Known for movies like Audition and Big Bang Love , Juvenile A , both which were released here , this is probably one of his more accessible films to date , even though it treads on familiar territory with elements of the yakuza . Crows : Episode 0 is set in an all boys Japanese high school , where instead of having educational classes and courses , what gets put on screen ( I haven't read the manga obviously ) happens to be an ecosystem of triad society split into different turfs according to grade levels , classes and reputation . Unification of all levels in the school is a challenge , and new boy Genji Takaya ( Shun Oguri ) throws down the gauntlet on the first day to take down reigning school gangster Tamao Serizawa ( Takayuki Yamada ) , which he finds impossible given that the latter's picked up by the police . But of course there are unwritten rules to follow in order to engage the top , and he enlists the help of a two-bit average Yakuza hoodlum Ken Katagiri ( Kyosuke Yabe ) to help plot his path of success . For the most parts , the story is simple to follow , as we shadow Genji in his quest to conquer the high school class by class , through sheer brute force , gaining of respect , or simply just friendship established . As his reputation grows , so does his threat towards Serizawa , which sets up the inevitable climatic showdown where the rival gangs gotta settle who's gonna rule the school . As the saying goes , one mountain cannot hide 2 tigers . You can't help it but Korea's Volcano High comes to mind for comparison . However , this is without the effects laden stylistic fight sequences where the exponents possess superhuman powers and abilities . Here , it's the good old fisticuffs without a lot of frills , though styled to make the characters seem to have super-strength , no thanks to the sound effects of course . The art direction is beautifully peppered with plenty of graffiti art , and your eyes would just automatically wander off to read just about every word that's spray painted out there . Oozing plenty of testosterone and machismo , there are still enough tender moments to make you cringe , bearing in mind that after all , these are pretty looking boys with mean and tough looking exteriors , but sometimes still softies at heart . It's fight club in schools where black leather is the new uniform . If you're a fan of no holds barred street fighting with camaraderie elements thrown in , sprinkled with a dash of humour ( from sight gags to the toilet variety ) , then Crows : Episode 0 would be right up your alley .
A Nutshell Review : 3 : 10 to Yuma	No , this isn't the updated version starring Russell Crowe and Christian Bale . While it's making its rounds in general and festival circuit release , over here we've got to wait until next year ( yes ! Almost 3 to 4 months ! ) before it arrives on our shores . So what can one do in the meantime ? Do some homework and pick up the original of course . You would already know by now the basic premise of the story . Ben Wade ( Glenn Ford , who was Jonathan Kent in Superman which starred Christopher Reeves , and in the 3 : 10 update the character is played by Crowe ) is one of the most notorious and wanted criminals in the Wild Wild West , and together with his gang , rob a stagecoach in the beginning of the movie , and in the process , kills the driver . While getting his rocks off with a local barmaid Emmy ( Felicia Farr ) , he gets arrested by the town sheriff with the help of poor rancher Dan Evans ( Van Heflin ) , and Evans gets offered 200 dollars as a volunteer to transport Wade to Contention City , in time for the 3 : 10 train to Yuma ( hence the title ) . It's really a simple story about the dynamics and uneasy relations between the two men . One captive , the other the guard . One a criminal , the other just being the mercenary in need of money to get through hard times and feed his family . One full of cunning , the other a good boy scout who has high morals and is serving out his moral obligation . There are enough engaging material here to keep you mesmerized , but the movie turned out to be a quick 92 minutes ( the update runs for at least 30 more minutes ) . The best parts are nonetheless the temptation that Ben brings to the table - let him walk free , and he'll reward Dan with 10 , 000 dollars , more than 50 times the amount provided to him . Will Dan buckle ? It's a quick get rich scheme , nobody will blame him ( given nobody else wants this job anyway ) , and it's almost a banker's guarantee that there will be no blood loss on either side . The tension built in the hotel room where temptation gets seductively dripped and the time gets ticking , is excellence par none , even despite the movie's age . And as the clock approaches 3pm , you find that the odds get stacked against Dan , slowly but surely . However , there are some jarring moments to the plot during those tension filled moments , like Dan's wife Alice ( Leora Dana ) comes a visiting . And for all the build up , the climax is a little disappointing , at least to me , as there's no big OK Corral styled shoot em ups . It does have a satisfying ending , but one that is rather muted for a Western . In fact , if you look at it on hindsight , it's quite unsophisticated , with few sets , and little battles . What made it being touted as arguably one of the best of its genre , is the delivery by both Glenn Ford and Van Heflin . Ford's mannerisms in his portrayal as Ben Wade will offer no surprises why Russell Crowe was chosen for the role . Van Heflin's Dan is a curious choice to offer to Christian Bale however , as the Dan here's a little stocky , and confident but yet unsure . But Bale being an excellent actor , should be able to pull this off , and it'll be interesting to see how his Dan will react to Ben Wade's propositions . All in all , after watching this one , I can't wait for the remake to come any sooner . No doubt having known how the story played out might mar the enjoyment , you'll never know when , as usual , the Hollywood remake will throw a curveball in the story , especially in beefing up the action with a couple more gunfights . Watching Crowe and Bale go head up aga inst each other , is reason enough to watch the updated version , some half a century after the original was made .
A Nutshell Review : North Country	First impressions , you might think that this movie is another Erin Brockovich wannabe , with Charlize Theron stepping into Julia Robert's single mother shoes in yet a film about an underdog which takes on a large corporation in a legal battlefield . Or probably take off from a sexual harassment theme from a Crichton novel . Based upon the book " Class Action : The Story of Lois Jensen and the Landmark Case That Changed Sexual Harassment Law " , and of course , a dramatized Hollywood version of the first successful sexual harassment case in the US , you might hesitate that this movie might bore you with many of the legal mumbo-jumbo with plenty of objections and sustained motions . This movie is more than that , and it doesn't overdo its courtroom scenes . Sure , they are there , but it doesn't take centrestage . What is core in the movie , is how relationships amongst the various characters are played out . And the telling of a story of one woman's fight against stacked odds . It also examines the difficulty of being a single mom bringing up children who don't appreciate you for what you are and what you're doing for the family , and society's judgment of you based on damaging rumors and hear-says . Whether you would buckle under pressure , or stand up and be counted . And of course , surviving in a male dominated industry such as mining . There are sexual jokes , innuendos and suggestions aplenty , as red-blooded men find it difficult to resist making off-colored jokes , and bragging about their balls . If you look at it both sides , sure , when men congregate , we'd sure like to behave the way we behave with little inhibitions ( no , I don't mean gay , that's for another movie ) , but with the ladies around , you'd just got to restrain yourself . It's not about being macho , but boils down to basic courtesy and being polite . Throughout the movie , you'd experience how Josey Aimes ( Charlize Theron ) changes her outlook on such situations and advances , from brushing them off initially , until they become too hot to handle . And being the whistle-blower ( the " in " term for 2005 ) doesn't help one bit , as it just makes the environment even more electrified . As the movie unravels , we learn more of her character , although some might already anticipate the slight twist in the movie with regards to her child . As mentioned , what appeals in the movie is the relationships . Charlize as her character is caught in the middle - being the child to an unforgiving father , and having her past misdeeds catching up to her and embarrassing her folks . But yet being a parent herself to her children , and worst , having them exposed to nasty rumors , having them looking down on her despite her immense love for them . The ups and downs , joy and pain she suffers - it makes you forget she's the one-dimensional killing machine in Aeon Flux . Would Charlize win another Oscar for her performance ? In my humble opinion , based on 2 other nominee's performance - Keira Knightley in Pride and Prejudice , and Resse Witherspoon in Walk the Line , I'd say she has the upper hand . But I've yet to watch Transamerica and Mrs Henderson Presents , so I'll hold off my prediction for now . But having a good supporting cast helps too , with Frances McDormand as her friend Glory , Sean Bean as Glory's husband Kyle , Woody Harrelson as the reluctant hockey-player turned lawyer Bill White . For the first time I actually hear a lawyer character reveal very frankly about the perils of a court case - where it's almost like a " damn if you do and damn if you don't " situation , with having to live with every dirt being dug up on you . Sissy Spacek stars as Josey's mother Alice Aimes , and Richard Jenkins rounds it off as the father Hank - watch out for his emotionally charged speech , which is pretty true if you ask me . If you're in for some serious family and relationship drama , sprinkled with a dash of courtroom action , with loads of harassment examples , then North Country is the movie to watch this week .
A Nutshell Review : Murderball	Murderball is a sport otherwise known as Wheelchair / Quad Rugby . Played by quadriplegics , it is a 4 on 4 rugby game on wheels , which requires plenty of strength , speed , and that armoured wheelchair which almost doubles as a kind of bumper car as the sportsmen battle it out for supremacy on a regular basketball court . This documentary showcases the game from both the points of view of Team USA and Team Canada , highlighting the intense rivalry between them , with Team Canada inheriting a disgruntled ex-Team USA star player Joe Soares , who's now their head coach . Naturally when you have someone who knows your team strategy and know it inside out , is a cause for concern , as Team USA seeks to continue its winning streak , with new star player Mark Zupan in its fold . But it's not just about the game , or just the preparation for the Paralympic Games in Athens 2004 . In its compact 85 minutes , we get introduced to the key players like Zupan , and go behind the scenes to see what makes them tick , as well as their backstories on how they have become confined to a wheelchair . Not everyone is born without limbs , and for most , it's usually an accident , or a disease . Family ties are given equally adequate screen time , as support for these folks , as do any other sporting professional , is as important , especially after facing a huge loss while representing the country . It's a bit hilarious as they account for the stares and innocent requests of help extended to by strangers , and you've got to salute these guys ' strength , independence and confidence that comes with the sport . Besides the game , they do go around the country to inspire others who have recently suffered the same predicament of being in a wheelchair , to advise that it's not a lost cause . And while they reminisce about how they had to adjust to their condition , I suppose the common question they all had was , does their woody still work . And surprisingly , it's this curiosity amongst chicks that actually assist them in snagging them , ha ! But light hearted moments aside , it's almost always never easy in picking life back up again , as everyone harbours the dream that one day , they will walk again . For those who have followed the team's exploits in the previous Athens Olympic Games , will already know the outcome of the game . Done in MTV styled quick cuts with adrenaline pumping music , the games shown in the documentary don't bore . But as the cliché goes , it's never about the destination , but about the journey . Best wishes to all the athletes competing in Beijing 2008 !
A Nutshell Review : Awake	I've never been under general anesthesia before , not that I want to , but I guess without first hand experience , one can only imagine what it would be like to be somewhat unconscious while your body's at the mercy of surgeons who are responsible in cutting you up and putting you back properly . I guess we've all heard of our fair share of horror stories with miscellaneous surgical tools being left inside our bodies , and one thing's for sure , I'll be pretty much scared shitless if I have to go anesthesia for a major body repair too . I usually have a general distrust of the doctors , especially those who have to peer , poke and prod within you , because one wrong move or diagnosis , and you're in for some pretty troubled lifestyle for a long time . If Awake reminds us of anything , that'll be to choose your doctors wisely . Even though they are your friends , should they have dubious abilities and worse , bad credentials , references and have lawsuits to settle arising from malpractice , take it as a sign to run away , fast . It's nothing personal , just professional , since it's your life at stake , not theirs . So don't be stubborn , and engage the best possible surgeon you can afford . And perhaps mothers know best too . Lena Olin stars as Lilith Beresford , the mother of billionaire scion Clay Beresford ( Hayden Christensen ) . Being the overly protective and domineering single parent in his life , Clay finds it hard to connect with her , much lest trying to break the news that her employee Samantha ( Jessica Alba ) is the woman that he's been dating and going to marry . But of course , he's faced with a disease that requires a heart transplant , having the stars play games with him too for being of the rare O - blood type . When a donor becomes available and he's strapped to the operating table by Dr Jack Harper ( Terrence Howard ) , here's where the titular condition kicks in , describing how a certain percentage of patients actually stay conscious throughout the whole process of surgery . I would really hate it to be in his shoes when your chest get opened up from scalpel to drill , or worse , having the skull opened to get to the brain . This movie earned its rating for blood curling in-your-face surgical sequence , but other than that , it runs in a pretty breezy fashion , clocking under 90 minutes to weave a tight medical thriller . I must say I came in with low expectations , and came out quite surprised at the twists put into the story , which is not really contrived and forced to make the whole thing work . The clues are there all the while for an attentive audience to pick up along the way , and when you do , you'll probably still smile when it gets delivered and confirms your suspicions . Awake is very bleak on its take on love however , what with in sickness and in health , for better or worse . It tells you to look carefully , beneath beautiful facades to try and peer into a person's character , which frankly can be hidden quite easiy until it is too late . Christensen didn't have much to do since the crucial scenes all involve his voice over narration in an out of conscious body experience , emphasizing his shock , disappointment and discovery of what's actually transpiring in conversation with the doctors . And it's definitely not something anyone wants to hear at all , and the sequence of being overcome by anesthesia , is worth the ticket price .
A Nutshell Review : The Good The Bad The Weird	It's not difficult to see why The Good , The Bad , The Weird is number 1 at the Korean box office this year , given that the titular roles are handed over to some of the heartthrobs such as Lee Byung-hun and Jung Woo-sung . But the real scene stealer here is Song Kang-ho as The Weird Yoon Tae-goo , with some of the best lines and given the moral ambiguity of his character , rather than being the Good Park Do-won ( Jung ) and the Bad Park Chang-i ( Lee ) which is cast in stone , simply endears himself to the audience , and not to mention the extended screen time devoted to him too . But those aside , this film trounces plenty , and I mean plenty of bland , generic action adventure types cooked up by Hollywood in recent times , and having a Korean flavour in what would essentially be a Western , it adds plenty of spice to a genre that most wouldn't want to touch with a ten foot pole . The storyline's pretty straightforward , with everyone ( the titular characters , the Japanese army , the Korean freedom fighters , and plenty of rival Manchurian gangsters ) after a treasure map that points to some age old Chinese dynasty goodies buried deep within some desert land in Manchuria , and having the map stolen and in the possession of The Weird , this makes it one hell of a chase movie from start to finish , offering plenty of set action sequences from massive chases , to awe-inspiring gun play . The references and inspiration from Sergio Leone's classic spaghetti western The Good , The Bad and The Ugly is undeniable , but this is its own movie . Making its debut at the Cannes Film Festival , director Kim Ji-woon crafts a tale that is full of rip-roaring fun , finding some good balance between comedy and stylized action . It tries though to plant many elements and characters into the story , but these are rather forgettable as the spotlight falls firmly upon our titular three . Positive elements of the movie include the excellent cinematography and camera work , which packages the action scenes like a video game , offering the audience a close up third person perspective following through the characters in their execution of maneuvers and moves , while the eclectic soundtrack is just plain music to the ears . Jung Woo-sung perhaps got the shortest straw of the trio , with his limited screen time devoted to looking good and cool with his double barelled shotgun . As The Good bounty hunter , he's requested by the group of Korean freedom fighters to assist them in the retrieval of the map , which also gives him an opportunity to apprehend The Bad . His character doesn't say much or do much other than to dispatch the bad guys , and frankly speaking , he falls squarely into the strong and silent mold for the movie . Lee Byung-hun on the other hand , in reuniting with the director since their A Bittersweet Life days , brings forth quite convincingly his role as the chief baddie . Ruthless and highly skilled , he doesn't flinch an eyelid when dishing out punishment , and has through this role , told the world that he can be equally adept at being the bad guy . Kudos go to the makeup artist in trying to make him look really nasty , with plenty of facial scars that try to disguise his naturally good looks . Female fans in the audience looking for eye candy would be gleefully happy to note that he was sans shirt in one scene , and I thought it'd put to shame plenty of guys out there when they see Lee's rock-hard six-pack ( time to hit the gym , guys ! ) But in all honesty , this film firmly belongs to pudgy looking Song Kang-ho for his charismatic role as The Weird . The first Korean film that I ever watched in the cinemas was Shiri , and Song had a memorable supporting role to play there . From then on I've become a fan of his , and followed Song through his roles in Park Chan-wook's Joint Security Area , Bong Joon-ho's Memories of Murder and The Host , and Lee Chang-dong's Secret Sunshine . Having seen him backstage last year when he won Best Actor for his role in The Host at the inaugural Asian Film Awards in Hong Kong , was nothing but a thrill . Here , he single-handedly stole the show from the other two pretty boys with his sheer presence , and I felt that he'd probably had a field day with this free spirited role . With well designed action designed to exhilarate , and being cheeky without qualms , The Good The Bad The Weird deserves to be highly recommended with its fusion of gun play , knife play and comedy in large doses , despite some forgivable inconsistencies . The last act did seem quite indulgent in trying to achieve spectacle that it might have become a little repetitive , but the finale face off more than makes up for this minor disturbance to a very enjoyable movie .
A Nutshell Review : The Happening	To me , this is not a movie about finding out what the issue at hand is , or trying to crack the mystery behind the phenomenon , or even about figuring out what the twist , if any , would be . It's a story about communication , how we , in today's context , are so reliant on mass media delivering every bit of incident deemed newsworthy , and providing that amped up " insights " to send us to paranoia . If you notice of late , we have been bombarded with crisis after crisis , or could it really be instead , the flavour of the moment that the mass media drums up ? Avian Flu ? Food Crisis ? Fuel Crisis ? Business Continuity ? Terrorism ? The list goes on , with news editors determining what to drum up , and where to send everyone crying out that the sky is falling . The Happening does just that , as we see newsflash after newsflash providing speculation after speculation that everyone listens , and accedes to . But it's not just the mass media alone , but the story also puts the spotlight on how reliant we are on our mobile devices , so much so that they actually have already become second nature to us . If we want to talk to someone , we pick up the phone , or we text the person . Gone is the value of face to face communications , as we talk to one another through an electronic device and medium . And we all know what happens to these wireless gadgets come a crisis , when base stations get knocked out , and we feel incapacitated , and so alone . And the rare occasion when our little island experiences unexpected power brownouts and we lose connectivity , we go into fits and strangely enough , feel at a loss at what to do next ? We are creatures who must talk to one another , otherwise I guess we'll go insane , and not everyone's cut out to be a hermit living alone , making that informed decision choosing to be cut off from the outside world and be self-sufficient . Perhaps that's why isolation has been designed as punishment , and one probably might go a little bit cranky , losing social skills . Just like how the prominent old lady in The Happening become overly suspicious of every wee thing that doesn't go her way . Shyamalan gave us probably the weakest protagonist in his tales to date . We are familiar with Mark Wahlberg in his many alpha-male action roles , like those in The Italian Job remake , or his sharpshooter Sniper . Here , his Elliot is a school science teacher who's the most clueless amongst all clueless characters in Shyamalan's fictional worlds . He absolutely , like the audience , has no idea what's going on , has no plan , and doesn't hesitate to tell everyone just that , exhibiting some classic deer-caught-in-the-headlights look with wide eyes and flared nostrils . Even Keanu Reeves pale in comparison to what Wahlberg managed to do here . Zooey Deschanel's Alma too plays Elliot's just as clueless wife , only that she's harbouring a secret that you can decipher the minute it gets suggested on screen . Throughout the movie , husband and wife has to sort of issues as the clock ticks down to doomsday , and just like The Incredible Hulk , this little love story slowly grew in importance . And to pre-empt those who would dislike the movie , you're likely to find fault with the distinct lack of scares - OK , there's really one jump-from-your-seat moment , and various other scenes with an unflinching camera in the many faces of death - and the exclamation of " you mean that's it ? " The build up is masterfully done , though the ending might be a little bit abrupt and I suspect there might be some cutting of corners which might find their way to the DVD . Forget the fact that The Happening had to undergo some massive rewrites by Shyamalan for it to be accepted by the studios . Forget that this movie contains elements of suggestion that it's eco-warfare and Mother Nature is fighting back with results as significant as that we've already seen and experienced , with unbearable temperatures and disasters of large magnitudes . Like movies such as The Mist , while it's about the great unknown , it also serves as a warning that one day , just one day , we might be faced with questions we have no answers to , and to compound the problem , we're no longer collaborating and communicating effectively to work toward a solution . And that is a scary thought indeed .
A Nutshell Review : The Midnight Meat Train	Given that this month's the Lunar Seventh Month where the Chinese believe that spirits roam our world as their month long vacation from purgatory , my friend has so far kept this running joke about my unfortunate bumping into them given I spend my journey home on late night buses and trains . The Midnight Meat Train , as the title suggests , tells of the last train in the system where passengers inexplicably disappears , and I thought that Japanese director Ryuhei Kitamura managed to put a somewhat refreshing spin to the entire slasher and torture porn genre . Based on a short story by horror Meister Clive Barker , the story in parts looked like horror thrillers with recognizable moments like those in The Terminator , Shutter , and of course , Jeepers Creepers . If I were to have to take the last train , I definitely wouldn't want to bump into Vinny's sharp dressed Mahogany , a character who is almost like any other Vinny Jones character of being the muscle-man . Here , he's a butcher with a penchant of waiting for the last train , and armed with nothing more than knives , meat hooks and his personal favourite , a meat tenderizer , he proceeds to chop up unsuspecting victims as the train seem to speed off into the unknown . And there's where the story becomes intriguing , as it poses a lot of questions and doesn't provide you with any clear answers , until much later . You have to endure a slow buildup of Leon the photographer ( Bradley Cooper ) who in his quest to take the perfect picture for an exhibition , chances upon Mahogany and follows him for that Kodak moment . His girlfriend Maya ( Leslie Bibb ) and best friend Jurgis ( Roger Bart ) also get into the fray , and soon life for all three will be irrevocably changed . The payload for the movie comes at the back , and my , it's as satisfying a wrap as it can be , though again for those already familiar with some of the mentioned films , you'll more or less expect things to be done the way they did . As mentioned earlier , what was a refreshing spin , was how direct and to the point the acts of violence got , without dragging the scenes out with needless , extended cries of mercy or lingering on gratuitous scenes of gore and blood , which torture porn flicks seem to continuous bog their movies with , that it becomes boring ( Yes , I think you can sense that I'm already de-sensitized to such scenes ) . Rather than trying to craft creative ways to die in order to go one up against other movies that came before it , The Midnight Meat Train really went back to basics and simplicity , where killing blows are delivered swiftly , before proceeding with dismemberment . While it is disturbing in itself , the distributors decided to shield local audiences from such violence and gore , and hence we got a censored M18 rated version , instead of full regalia under the R21 rating . The cuts were jarring enough , but in all fairness the quality of the movie cannot be judged by just how those scenes were removed with a butcher's knife . Going by detailed descriptions of the level of graphic violence contained in the movie , it seemed that we suffered from having a lot cut off . The movie also boasted some really effective scenes of tension , and the anticipation of ill will especially with Vinny Jones looming nearby . The last time I remembered watching a major action sequence involving trains was in Batman Begins , and given that it has to live up to titular expectations , audiences were treated to some incredible all-out action scenes set in and around the train , with some really energetic camera movement and angles to complement the action on screen . But technicalities aside , what really worked and will possibly elevate this film to cult status , will be portrayal and fleshing out the character of Mahogany as the no-nonsense and swift executioner , adding to the list of memorable villains to have graced the screen amongst the likes of the Freddies , Jasons and the Michael Myers of the cinematic world .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) NANA ( 2005 )	My curiosity was piqued when I saw many of the DVDs on sale at various shops recently , so was actually wondering what the movie's all about , until I chanced upon a copy ( Special Edition too ) at the Esplanade Library . In giving it a shot , I'm pleasantly surprised , at the story it told , as well as the eye-candy available of course . It contains an extremely strong story of friendship , of love and the falling out of , adapted from a popular Japanese manga of the same name , by Ai Yazawa . You might liken it to Feel 100 % , as it touches on life , romantic love , and friends . This is the story with a theme primarily centered on Fate , of how two strangers sharing the same name Nana , be the same age , come to meet one night on a train to Tokyo for their own personal reasons , and how they grow to be best friends . The two girls can be so different from each other , one being a kawaii ( cute ) bimbo , while the other is a rock chick ( which I thought was in the mould of Garbage's Shirley Manson ) with her own rock band called Black Stones . While the narrative is forward moving for Nana Komatsu ( Aoi Miyazaki ) , in following her objective to be in Tokyo with her boyfriend Shoji ( Yuuta Hiraoka ) , Nana Osaki ( Mika Nakashima , a real life singer ) is in the city to try and achieve her big break for the band . However , flashbacks and the slow revelation of Osaki's backstory too revealed a romantic tangle she had with an ex-band member Ren Honjou ( Ryuhei Matsuda ) , who now plays for a successful outfit called TRAPNEST . It's an account of the two Nana's romantic relationships with the guys in their lives , and how they encourage and support each other through turbulent times during the relationships . While Nana Osaki may be kawaii , her clingy puppy dog attitude may put some guys off , who might prefer the more confident Nana Osaki . But pride too is an obstacle , as I know from personal experience how two very ambitious persons can stumble unwittingly , and perhaps reluctantly sacrifice love for personal career . Before you dismiss this as a chick flick , I'd like to say I would think otherwise . It may look like one , but it's tremendously well made , with a well paced narrative . Perhaps having the manga serve as a source provided for richer characterization of the leads . The two actresses who play both Nanas too couldn't contrast each other perfectly , and all in all , it's a very pleasing , despite the down moments in the story , movie to watch . By the way , the sequel has already been filmed , and is pending a year end release . I don't suppose we'll get the opportunity to see it in the theatres here , so will have to cross my fingers for a quick DVD release . This Code 3 DVD Special Edition by Panorama Entertainment comes with 2 discs . The first contains the movie and a full length commentary by director Kentaro Otami as well as the two lead actresses Mika Nakashima and Aio Miyazaki . Listening to them during the commentary , they revealed which shots were kept close to the manga source , and which had to be changed for reasons ranging from aesthetics to form . No worries though , as the commentary comes with subtitles as well , in both English ( though there were some grammar / tense issues with " shotted " ) and Chinese . Audio comes in a Dolby Digital 5 . 1 , which allows for a truly rock-concert like atmosphere during scenes when the bands perform . The second disc is the feature disc , consisting of - Making of NANA , ( 33mins 25s ) , follows the production from the 15-16 Jan 05 when filming began , including the director and cast interviews , as well as deleted scenes ( filmed but not used in the movie ) - Premiere Screening in Japan , 7 July ( for obvious reasons ) 2005 ( 3mins 10s ) , in Rippongi , with the director and major casts sharing their thoughts on the movie and of the characters they play . - Stage Appearance in Japan , 3 Sep 2005 , ( 3mins 55s ) with the director and major casts sharing their thoughts of the movie again . - Asia Premiere in Hong Kong , on 2 Oct 2005 ( 4mins ) , with a press conference attended by director Kentaro Otani , Mika Nakashima and Ryuhei Matsuda , and the attendance at the premiere screening complete with a cosplay contest . - Four theatrical trailers , without subtitles ( Runtimes of 1min 48s , 30s , 20s , 34s ) - Four TV Spots , without subtitles ( Runtimes of 17s , 17s , 30s , 17s )
A Nutshell Review : Smilers	When you think of children's ice hockey movies , The Mighty Ducks franchise probably comes instantly to mind . Likewise when I first saw the trailer for this movie , I can't help but to recall the Ducks , as well as the usual formula attached to team sports movie in general , where a motivational coach takes responsibility to turn a rag-tag team around and achieve glory . From Remembering the Titans to We Are Marshalls to Gridiron Gang , you just can't put a stop to such constant cookie cutter production under different premises . So to differentiate itself , and for my personal gauge , so long as the movie moves me at certain points despite clichés , then it works . Smiler does so on many counts , and is in fact a fine children's sports movie that is suitable for all ages , with the usual lessons to learn such as having no short cuts to success , persevering when the going gets tough , always believing in yourself and similar positive learnings to be gained from sitting through all 122 minutes of it . Like Swing Girls and Waterboys in its treatment and development of the narrative where the protagonists have to battle adversary , we follow the games of a junior high ice hockey team called Smilers , whom everyone including themselves , write their chances off even before the first puck gets hit , if at all . It's mainly told in flashback mode , though the prologue and epilogue spoke volumes that warm the heart . In the main narrative thread there are more than 3 little subplots which involve relationships , and the main bulk of it would be that of tap-dancer Shuhei ( Mirai Moriyama ) and figure skating teacher Shizuka ( Rosa Kato ) . A career ending injury brings Shuhei to Hokkaido to be with his lady love , but his wedding proposal got thwarted by her dad , who dangles the carrot that he'll only agree to giving her hand away in marriage , should he coach his school team to victory in the championships . Armed with nothing but his child psychology background , Shuhei has an uphill task in getting his team together , a group of boys whose skills are like unpolished gems , and to motivate them using some pretty innovative conviction that they are the best out there . Co - written by director Takanori Jinnai , he gives us some likable characters to grow attached to , and while each of them might have been boxed by their individual and personal issues , I thought it more than compensated any shortcomings , as we really get to know these kids , rather than being faceless beings brought in to make up numbers . Smiler had enough comedy to makes this one fluffy fairy tale of a movie , courtesy of some genuinely funny sight gags , and the antics of these children made it one heck of an endearing movie to sit through . The ice hockey games had glimpses of special effects , but never overriding the story , or trying to make this yet another Shaolin Soccer rehash or clone . As with most sports movies , a training montage becomes a staple ingredient , and Smiler does feature some very confident camera-work in capturing the game under high speed conditions . But if there's an area I want to roll my eyes at , is with the treatment of teenage romance . Smiler had star player Masaya ( Kenji Sakaguchi ) fall for Reina ( Anri Okamoto ) a potential figure skating star and the drool-worthy good-looker on the ice skating rink that every boy in the Smiler team has the hots for . But romances these days have to have the inevitable cancerous disease rear its ugly head to disrupt all the good things , to elicit some sorrowful moments and to make the audience work their tear ducts . I guess any self-respecting romance have to kowtow to such story development that it gets really tired and predictable . But what I really enjoyed from this cliché , is how the team get together to rally around under the window of the patient , and encourage in fact , one another , to celebrate each of their victories as a reminder that impossible is nothing , so long as you set your mind to it . Those moments really moved me , even though they were basic tricks from the formula book . The last children's sports movie I enjoyed was Slam ! and I'll also add Smiler to my list of favourites from the genre too . If you're one who prefer to stick to formula , then you're likely to find Smiler right up your alley . Otherwise it still makes for a good motivational movie , for tykes and adults alike .
A Nutshell Review : Speed Racer	Go Speed Racer , Go Speed Racer , Go Speed Racer , Go ! ! ! ! ! No , I'm not a hardcore speed racer fan . My only contact with the character and the cartoon series some 20 odd years ago , was from a couple of episodes from free-to-air television courtesy of Malaysia's RTM . Back then , since I did not understand Malay ( which the series was dubbed into ) , I could only gawk at the wide eyed and often wide , moving mouths of the characters as they race around circuits in their cars , half the time not knowing what was going on , except to root for the kid in the white helmet emblazoned with a red M , and that kid could really drive ( from those lines drawn across the screen ) , and had a really cool car christened the Mach 5 . Now that I'm all , ahem , grown up , I still found myself rooting for that same kid in the same white helmet in the same car , albeit in a grown up version of the cartoon being put on screen . Gone are the dark and gloomy Matrix and Vendetta movies made by the Wachowski brothers Andy and Larry , and hello psychedelic colours that provide a visual sensory overload . From the trailer you would have seen the assault of neon and pastels , and not since Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy or Zhang Yimou's Hero had I seen colours being brought out with such maverick disregard . And guess what , it was one heck of a trippy ride , and fun . That's certainly one of the first things anyone coming out of the screening would attest to , the colours , and of course the visual effects . Like the Star Wars prequel gone totally wild , CG were extensively used to create new worlds , cities and interiors that I would like to raise my hand now and say The Jetsons could probably be made on a shoestring too . In fact , I thought the actors could probably be replaced by cartoons as well , but that would mean a waste of the charm that each of the cast brought to their roles , and wasn't it a hoot to see Rain in his first role in a Hollywood movie getting severely beaten ? In any case , what shone in this movie , besides the races , were the characters , their interaction with one another , and what they stand for . No qualms about Emile Hirsch in the titular role , and I thought the entire Racer family was well cast , from Pops ( John Goodman in yet another series-to-movie role after his Fred Flintstone stint ) , Mom ( Susan Sarandon ) , mechanic Sparky ( Kick Gurry ) , kid brother Sprittle ( Paulie Litt ) who provides most of the slapstick together with pet monkey Chimp Chimp , and hot loyal girlfriend Trixie ( Christina Ricci ) . The villains of course were purely one dimensional , and like Iron Man , Corporations are once again the main baddie whose motivation of pure greed for money goes against the spirit of sports in this instance . While the action on four wheels were breathtaking , there were ample moments which put on the brakes and allowed for a breather or two in giving some characters a little more depth . And the Wachowski's still can't rid themselves of kung - fu , giving almost everyone some set action pieces where they get to exhibit some fisticuffs , even though they might look quite awkward executing the moves . But ah , the races . Straight out the cartoons , except with more realistic sound effects , and one for the fans - the retention of the specific effect when Speed activates the Mach 5's Auto Jacks . Pure pleasure to the ears , even though the visuals at times might be a blur with every car in " Ultimate Extreme Drift Mode " ( TM by Stefan S ) pulling off gravity-defying stunts consisting of never-ending-spins and drifts around tracks that don't stay still and resembling the zaniest roller coaster designs . What I liked about the narrative flow was how the races blend seamlessly with moments of drama thanks to creative editing , and of course , throwbacks to the animated series again with many a close up shots of drivers looking cool , or looking mean . What's the best way to enjoy Speed Racer ? My take is to be in a high ( I will put a disclaimer as to how you're gonna achieve this , is totally up to you ) . Should there be an IMAX version / screening of this , then it's a natural and appropriate movie to do so . Summer looks good again with Iron Man and Speed Racer holding up the fort . Let's hope the rest meets and excels expectations as well .
A Nutshell Review : SiCKO	Won't we like to visit a doctor , and be provided preventive advice during a regular checkup . Or how about instead of worrying just how much those consultation charges are going to be , we get a world class doctor who basically just cares and is genuinely concerned with our well-being , and getting us cured of our sickness ? That's the kind of feeling you get when watching Michael Moore's latest documentary SiCKO . While he rages on and uncovers the deficiencies in the US healthcare system , he waxes lyrical about the free healthcare systems of various countries , while at the same time , comparing how doctors under different systems fare . We all know that doctors make a lot of money , but some make a lot of money because they are specialists and charge sky high fees for their services , that you can't help but wonder if it's money over patients . Then again , in what is termed the socialist medicine model , where doctors are akin to civil servants , being paid a fixed salary with variable components tagged to the welfare of the patients , you wonder too if that is probably a better system altogether , that those genuinely want to heal people , get into the profession , and those who want to make money , well , go work at the pharmaceutical companies . In any case , Moore dresses his documentary up in his usual sexy manner . He again drums up and creates a rally behind his objectives , and it's easy to fall prey to his viewpoint . There are merits to the better models he presented , or how non profit organizations , for the love of healing folks , can come up with 24hr on-call services , truly making healthcare not only affordable , but within physical reach . And he contrasts this with the cold , calculated way in which Americans are treated . And there's the flaw with privatizing healthcare , leaving it into the hands of , god forbid , insurance companies . It's almost common sense that premiums are always easy to pay , provided you satisfy many of the pre-conditions , but when it comes to the claim , that's where the real problem starts , as you'd come to expect delays , challenges , combing the fine print for some ambiguous clause just to starve you off any legitimate payback . I seriously hope we don't get our monies trapped in such schemes ( ahem , annuities ? ) . And when we're talking about life and death , it's ideal to leave little room for contracts and negotiations - life takes priority . In that sense where security and education comes into play , we leave it to the powers that be , and shouldn't healthcare be so as well ? Short of labelling it as the restriction of freedom and choice as some would have it argued , it actually comes with widespread social acceptance , and of course , taxes . You must be willing to pay to receive subsidized , or even free benefits . Otherwise , where do all these funds come from ? And this is where Moore conveniently skips , or mentions in extremely brief passing . There's no such thing as a free lunch , though neither is it a zero sum game , and there will be two sides carved out - those who just want to enjoy the benefits without contributing to it , and those who resent paying for someone else's welfare . Not everyone can be like the Canadians : ) Different strokes for different folks , depending on which set of values one subscribes to . So as Moore uncovers ideal benefits in the healthcare systems in the UK , France , Canada and even Cuba , he doesn't address the other social ills and resentment that comes along with it . But of course , since this is a documentary , and naturally the points that make the final cut must all support the filmmaker's vision . If compared to his earlier works , SiCKO comes across as more mature though , with its sexy arguments made against a very serious presentation and tone , void of all the quirky animations , and have rather limited snark remarks , not that they're not present . But the best bits about it , is how he pieces together the corruption in the whole system , including those in seats of power . As we know , some politicians can be persuaded with funds to assist in their respective lobbies , and it is no surprise where these healthcare insurance companies put their money on . Politicians on payrolls , in a nice way , are nothing new . And seriously , nobody can fault a private enterprise into achieving its prime objective in a market economy , and that is to maximize profits . Money can be used to cover the heart and soul , so why not use it to an advantage . SiCKO is crafted shrewdly in the hands of Moore , and frankly , brought its points out rather well . The much anticipated Guantanamo Bay excursion though was much ado about nothing , given the widespread publicity of the potential trouble Moore might get into . But the real gem of the movie though , is the lesson on how to shape one's arguments - place incessant focus on the good parts to debunk what currently doesn't work , because the bigger picture will always be able to puncture arguments presented within a 2 hour picture . It's never easy to find a right balance for any social issue , or life for that matter . I just have to make sure , as I told a friend , that I have a plan on what to do if I'm diagnosed with a serious condition , given rising health care costs here as well . And by the looks of it increasing in time to come , the plan definitely includes the reluctance to line the coffers of the doc treating me .
A Nutshell Review : Australia	If you're making a movie entitled " Australia " , you had better get it right , no ? And I thought Baz Luhrmann actually hit it quite squarely on the head with his Gone with the Wind-ish sprawling epic set in the Australian outback and around the time when the Japanese Imperial Army rained bombs over the Northern Territories , with a sprinkling of his keen eye for visual flair especially in the first few minutes where he had to set the stage for everything else to happen . Initially I was quite taken aback by its opening inter-title , and actually wondered what we could be in for . It's a warning of sorts , though much of it would be lost in translation outside Australia . In this film Luhrmann has boldly tackled the issue of discrimination head on , especially the attitude taken towards the Aboriginals and the plights of their children - the Stolen Generation , and crafted through this film , the natives who were quite heroic and self-sacrificial , putting bad light at those who deem themselves cultured , giving them really disgusting behavioural traits who run at the first signs of trouble . The similarities with Gone with the Wind cannot be denied . Call it inspired by , a homage to , of what have yous , there's a huge range called Faraway Downs where a Miss Scarlett O'Hara equivalent , proud English aristocrat Lady Sarah Ashley ( Nicole Kidman ) inherited upon arrival due to the death of her husband , and got caught up in a devilish plot to bankrupt her and take over her property , no thanks to beef monopolist King Carney ( Bryan Brown ) and chief henchman Neil Fletcher ( David Wenham , of Faramir fame from Lord of the RingS , who is creepily evil here ) . In comes saviour and romantic , roguish-looking hero Drover ( Hugh Jackman ) , whose name is derived from his occupation , who's quite the free spirit and actually does give a damn . The story's told in two distinct acts , The first focused a whole lot on cattle driving , where Sarah Ashley and Drover have to assemble a rag-tag team of ranchers from their household to drive 1500 heads of cattle all the way from their ranch to Darwin in order to make some dough to stave off bankruptcy and battle everything that's evil put in their way , from man-made disasters to Mother Nature . And this is where the action's quite exhilarating , which I put on par with Kevin Costner's buffalo hunt in Dances with Wolves . The second arc focused more squarely on the romance between the two leads , as told through the eyes of the little boy Nuallah , whom people insult as " creamy " ( half-white , half-aboriginal ) . His condition is such that children of his nature get sent packing away to a remote island by missionaries to " re-educate " them , and Sarah Ashley , having taken a liking to the boy , fights hard to keep her under her wing . They form a family nucleus of sorts , given that we slowly realize that the boy could probably be what they had both lost or could never attain , and is that social glue that keeps their pseudo-family dynamics in order . Casting is no-brainer as well , because you're likely to put together the biggest Hollywood stars ( who are Australians naturally ) in this movie to pull fans in , and watch them breathe life into their characters . If not for The Dark Knight , we'd probably see the late Heath Ledger involved as well . Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman shared perfect chemistry together , transforming loathe to love through the course of the film . More obvious changes were physical of course , where Sarah Ashley had her pasty white skin from her idyllic days in England slowly baked by the sun into a healthy tanned glow , while you can hear the audible gasps from female audiences when they see Hugh clean clean shaven after spending much time hiding his sexiest man alive fame behind a beard . The rest of the ensemble supporting cast also pulled their weight together , and even Hong Kong actor Yuen Wah had a bit part playing the non-English speaking kitchen help . What I thought was a romantic subplot played down and probably written out or edited to the cutting room floor , was that between the Australian Captain Dutton ( Ben Mendelsohn ) who had clearly taken a liking for Sarah Ashley , but probably kept for deleted scenes in the DVD release , if shot at all . There was that glint in the eye each time they both come together on screen , but it became more like a whatever - happens - off - screen - stays - off - screen relationship . Some might balk at the length of the film as I did prior to watching the film , but you'll hardly notice the run time once you get immersed into the spectacle of the film with its lush cinematography , and even pace . Elton John contributed to the score as well , and The Drover's Ballad could be a shoo-in for Academy nomination I think . If there's a gripe , I felt that Luhrmann did a Michael Bay in his battle sequences in the second act which Bay would probably be proud of , but it was a vastly one-sided affair with the Zero bombers holding their advantage from a surprise attack . Australia works on many fronts , and while it might not be a great movie , it certainly is a good one , with wonderful visuals , sets and all round chemistry between its cast . I'm not sure how there are those who can slam this earnest effort , but for Luhrmann fans , you're in for a treat with his film , with the romance maestro doing what he does best for his characters , making them fall in love under extraordinary circumstances .
A Nutshell Review : Wild Hogs	Major stars getting together for a road trip ? Sounds like fun to me , and if the trailer was anything to go by , it was potential for serious laughs as middle aged men band together for some serious male bonding session while hitting the road . Wild Hogs are what Doug , Woody , Bobby and Dudley call themselves - biker dude wannabes who spend their free time mucking around a biker pub , sharing their life's woes . Doug ( Tim Allen ) is a dentist who gets no respect from his son and suffers from a self inflicted diet regime , Bobby ( Martin Lawrence ) is a henpecked househusband working in between his novel and The Firm , Dudley ( William H Macy ) is a geeky computer programmer who doesn't have the guts to speak to girls , and unofficial leader of the pack Woody ( John Travolta ) seems to have it all on the surface - riches and a Swimsuit Illustrated wife , but little does anyone know he's a bankrupt undergoing a divorce . Watching them moot the idea of a road trip on bikes - to ride hard and ride free , seemed to have rubbed off on me . If I had a bike license , hell yeah , I'd do that too with a bunch of like minded buddies , hitting the road on a trip to somewhere , a destination in mind , but absolutely zero planning on how exactly to get there . Revving those Harleys on a highway is a romantic idea , making pit stops wherever there's a need for gas , to replenish supplies or to answer nature's call . The trailer for Wild Hogs actually contained some of the best parts from the movie , and most of the good bits happen in the first half of the film . Toward the second half , you come to expect that the experience the guys go through together will have changed them for the better , though contrary to the notion of a road trip , they seem to be stuck at a single location toward the end , thus the movie started to sag both in pace and the lack of interesting happenings to spice things up . I thought watching William H Macy in a comedic role was truly refreshing , and he almost has all the best lines in the movie . Juggling the other big named actors isn't easy , and Martin Lawrence's role turned out to be the most undefined , and somehow not as interesting as the rest . John Travolta really piled on the weight here , though he showed shades of his boogie Saturday Night Live days . The supporting cast of Ray Liotta and Marisa Tomei were surprising additions , and John C McGinley's involvement would probably be the best scene in the movie , as the cop who catches our heroes in a compromising situation out in the woods , made worst by their dialogue uttered while half asleep . And if all that isn't enough , throw in Kyle Gass ( Tenacious D ) hamming it up with contemporary pop tunes , and a soundtrack worthy to take along during a long road trip . Wild Hogs is really fun to watch , with a somewhat sublime message of remembering to take some time off for some serious recreation and vacation . It's feel good all the way , with boys who never really quite grown up .
A Nutshell Review : Casino Royale	In short , the answer is a resounding yes , and more . Daniel Craig brings to the table a sense of that everyday man , rather than the polished slickness of a seasoned spy with that double - oh license to kill . And understandably so , as Casino Royale is the first Ian Fleming book written about Bond , James Bond . So it's back to the basics , back to the very first time of almost everything . There is no fancy futuristic gadget to assist Bond out of tight situations - he has to rely on his fists and bulging muscles and the ever reliable Walter PPK handgun . Although we have the beautiful Aston Martin as his wheels of choice , there is an incredible amount of running around on foot . M without Moneypenny , no gadgets and no Q ( or R ) , the dry martini created on the fly , that's how basic Craig's Bond is . The trademarked opening , with the cliffhanger styled big stunts , the tracking gun barrel panning across the screen ( now replaced with one quick shot set in a toilet ! ) are inconceivably missing . Even the theme song cum stylized opening credits is done without a gyrating female silhouette , something quite unthinkable for a formulaic Bond film ! But it's one heck of a refreshing change and feel to the franchise given the break from convention , after the successful stint by Pierce Brosnan built too much implausibility in the gadget department , and virtual indestructibility together with Q's lab hinging on a product placement overload . What you've read so far about Craig's Bond being a more physical and violent one , yes , you've read them right . He gets tortured , he gets injured , he even makes a lot of mistakes . But don't forget , like Batman Begins , this story tells of the time of how Bond became the renowned spy we all know , set just after he got promoted to double-oh status and earned his license to kill . He's wet behind the ears , a rookie in the business , and has a huge lesson to learn on trust and letting his guard down . Which is where the Bond girls come in . While decorative , Casino Royale boasts Vesper Lynd ( Eva Green ) , as THE femme fatale from the British Treasury sent to be Bond's bankroll as he tries to bring down chief villain Le Chiffre ( Mads Mikkelsen ) on the high stakes poker table of Casino Royale . You'll probably chuckle at the first time seeing Bond flirt with a trademarked decorative Bond chick , and it has this really awkward feel to it all . But with Vesper , you'll see how he bares his heart and soul for her , without trading too many sexual innuendos or impatiently trying to get inside her . It's probably something like first love , and after this episode , you'll probably begin to understand how his love-them-leave-them attitude towards beautiful woman developed . It's a cruel twist of fate in the love department that leaves you with some questions to ponder . What about the story ? It's nothing to shout about . Basically it's Bond up against Le Chiffre on the poker table , one which proves to be quite interesting to watch , but got dragged by too many meandering interruptions . The relationship and love scenes between Bond and Vesper feels extended in the longest Bond film to date ( clocking in at 2 hours and 24 minutes ) , and does get mushy at times . But this I feel is the focus of Casino Royale , the microscope put onto Bond to see how he learns and develops his skills and persona . Though the main villain Le Chiffre looks sinister enough , there is a severe lack of world-dominating ambition , and doesn't reach the highs of Bond villains of the past . The lack of memorable villainous sidekicks too relegates the baddies to cardboard characters . In short , Casino Royale builds its strength in providing a good way to bring about a change of actors into the Bond role by adapting Fleming's beginning , but really , while I think Craig will have a field day with this stint as Bond , I'll pity the next actor who has to take over him , without the safety net of going back to basics .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) One-Armed Swordsman ( 1967 )	There are tonnes of wuxia stories and films out there , it's quite difficult to be established as one of the classics . One-Armed Swordsman happens to be one of the best remembered and loved stories that defined wuxia , and it is no doubt that actor Wang Yu and director Chang Cheh were made household names . Common themes in wuxia like brotherhood , romance , piety , revenge are all rolled into One-Armed Swordsman . A son of a servant who died valiantly protecting his master , Qi Rufeng of the Golden Sword Clan , Fang Gang ( Want Yu ) was brought up by Qi Rufeng as one of his disciples , but his daughter Qi Pei-er accidentally chops off Fang Gang's right arm in a fit of petty anger . Running away and injured , Fang Gang was saved by a village girl Hsiao Man , who nurses him back to health , and passes to him half a sacred kung fu manual , which has only the left-handed moves left ( yes , it's that convenient ) . Swearing to leave the martial arts world and minding his own business , little does he realize that a rival clan has developed weapons and moves to counter the Golden Sword Clan , and are out for blood . Realizing that he cannot let down the master who has brought him up , Fang Gang goes to their rescue , against the wishes of Hsiao Man . Caught between two benefactors , Fang Gang has to make the decision , one in which only a true swordsman will definitely make . The martial arts , compared to today's standards might seem cheesy , but it's the good old days sans wire work . The teahouse fight remains one of the better sequences , and they all get as bloody as they can get , hence Chang Cheh was also known as the " ketchup " director . You'll marvel at how smart editing actually allows for some " slick " martial arts moves to be performed . Characters are kept simple - the good are good , and the bad are really evil , and look the part too . It's a one dimensional world , but that keeps the storyline simple as you await the action to begin . So for that introductory look into the world of Wuxia , One-Armed Swordsman might just be the vehicle for you - characters , themes , weapons , the hallmark elements of a good wuxia film are all there . This Code 3 DVD contains a behind the scenes gallery , the trailers , production notes and biographies , and a segment on 5 animated works done by various educational institutions in Asia . The winning segment comes from Singapore , and it indeed is a beauty to watch .
A Nutshell Review : The Queen	This is as much a movie on Queen Elizabeth II as it is on current British PM Tony Blair . With the movie starting from Blair's win at the elections , and being a new PM expected to usher in change , his character here is in opposites with the Queen's , one steeped in stifling tradition of the monarchy . But whileThe movie contains some excellent blending of archived footage from news bulletins to images shot with that look and feel of a television feed , as well as dramatized elements which tried to tell the story of what really happened behind the scenes . With the crux of the story focused on the period of time immediately after Princess Di's death in 1997 ( wow , it's been almost 10 years ) , it's usually landmark events like these which people remember what the Queen / Monarchy did , versus the period of approximately 50 years she had ascended the throne . Written by Peter Morgan and directed by Stephen Frears , The Queen is an excellent character study piece of one of the world's longest surviving monarchies , as well as arguably the one with the most scandals and controversies . One must bear in mind that this is fiction and by no means representative of actual events , though it is a fictional version with the possibility of putting OEII in better light , given her reaction of no response to the public immediately after the tragic news . The story and plot are nothing new , and therefore offer no such thing as a shocking plot twist , or controversial scenes , although the movie's attempts to provide an explanation from the other side of Buckingham will be its attraction . Much has been said about actress Helen Mirren's outstanding performance as QEII , and I'm of the opinion that she deserves every accolade bestowed upon her , and is indeed a strong contender to snag that Oscar come Feb 2007 . But kudos must go to her costars as well , like James Cromwell as husband Prince Philip , Sylvia Syms as the Queen Mother , Alex Jennings as Prince Charles , but more importantly , Michael Sheen as Tony Blair . The makeup and wardrobe department also deserve mention to create the physical resemblance , which probably would assist loads in having the actors flesh out their respective characters . It's an interesting look into the workings of the monarchy , and the relationship amongst the members . For those curious as to the relationship between the government and the monarchy will appreciate the many moments of interaction between Blair and the Queen .
A Nutshell Review : National Treasure : Book of Secrets	If I may be able to conjure up conspiracy theories of my own , then I will attempt to hypothesis how National Treasure came about to debut on the big screen , based on opportunities which presented itself at the right time . First , the popularity of Dan Brown's controversial The Da Vinci Code , which was made into a movie of its own , but took a tad too long in doing so . Topping the bestseller charts around the world , it made Hollywood execs sit up and realize that wild goose chases and solving riddles and clues do make an interesting , workable formula . Coupled by the fact that the Indiana Jones trilogy ( at the time ) probably will not have another sequel see the light of day , then the onus is on crafting a tale based on controversies , with Indy Jones tendencies , and chances are a new winner will be born . Hence , National Treasure in the year end of 2004 , which made a decent dent in the box office , starring Nicolas Cage as an Indy like clone Benjamin Gates , embroiled in a mystery of the Templar's treasure , with sidekick Riley Poole ( Justin Bartha ) as the tech wizard necessary to assist him , while at the same time romancing Abigail Chase ( Diane Kruger ) , who joins his band of treasure seekers against her wishes . The Indy references don't just stop here , they extend to having a Henry Jones resemblance in Jon Voight as dad Patrick Gates . If you were to deck Cage in a fedora , whip and gun , the references will be just too blatant . But let's not get ahead of ourselves . The important question is , is the sequel Book of Secrets as good as , or can be accredited with the rare accolade of being better than the original ? Well , in all honesty it's still an entertaining ride , as this time we go around the world ( OK , so perhaps just Paris and London ) , versus the original story being US-centric . However , like the first installment , the material , clues and riddles are still quite US history heavy , so if you're well versed with certain characters ( brought to life early in the movie ) or events ( thanks to paying attention during history lessons ) , then yes , Book of Secrets will give you an additional boost in being able to identify with it . Otherwise , don't fret , as the casual movie goer with popcorn in hand will definitely not feel lost . The narrative and plot still feel a little staged and rigged for convenience ( and run time of course ) , as one event will inevitably lead to the next and to the inevitable ending ( like how CSI solves crime within 45 minutes sans ads ) , but they're still a lot of fun watching how the characters go through the motion in believing that they're onto something really big . While the first had a lot of puzzles to solve , which kept some of us guessing and playing along as well , this time round the number of riddles have been reduced significantly , and signs of Mission : Impossible creeping in as our band of treasure hunters seek to perform the impossible , pertaining to levels of security guarding their mark . In an excuse to make the sequel , we have Ben Gates and GATESENIOR reuniting to clear the good name of their ancestor , who's recently accused of being a co-conspirator , or even mastermind , behind the assassination of US President Abramham Lincoln . And of course , help comes in the form of Abigail , who's now estranged from Gates , trusty tech sidekick with the complementary witty lines Riley ( and his red Ferarri ) , and now joined by Ben's mom Emily Appleton , played by Helen Mirren , who's in the movie to contrast her relationship with Patrick to that between Ben and Abigail . However , we're not really interested in whimsical attempts to add depth to characters , are we ? Sure they have their issues with one another , and with Ed Harris ' Mitch Wilkinson being the token and very bland bad guy wanting to make his mark on history , the focus more often than not is to shift to the next big stunt / chase sequence . Like the first movie , one of the highlights touted in the trailer involves the art of balancing , which unfortunately , was already done in the first movie . Don't you just hate repeated stunts ? And toward the end , I can't help but to compare it to Jackie Chan's The Myth , which in itself was somewhat of a treasure - hunter movie , involving the elixir of life ( We're still stuck with gold here though ) . And add to that Harvey Keitel's FBI agent Sadusky , the office of the most powerful man in the world , and teases from the Book of Secrets , we've got ourselves a handful being squeezed within 2 hours . Not to forget Nicolas Cage's absolutely horrendous haircut , the final verdict is that it's a fairly decent year end blockbuster which primed itself for yet another sequel , courtesy of page 47 of the titular book , if the box office numbers prove favourable .
A Nutshell Review : Days of Glory	So you've done a great piece of work , and are awaiting your just rewards . Somehow along the way , someone else , by colour , creed , or connections , get all the recognition that you're due credit for . You feel frustrated , but you think of your rice bowl , and decide to grit your teeth and bear it , calling it just another day , secretly longing for a time where you are empowered to do something about it . In the liberation of France during WWII , North African men were recruited and enlisted in the French army in the fight against the Nazis . Why do they do it ? One reason is to escape poverty , and the holding on to the glimmer of hope that they can be accepted , when the war is over , as equals based on their fight for the " motherland " . These soldiers , mujahedeens , fought hard , often being in the frontline , but always overlooked when it comes to recognition of basic military welfare and promotions , not that these rewards will cost an arm or a leg , nor are the fighters so hard up for them . All they're asking for was fair treatment , but all they got was discrimination . Yes , and that is the pain . WWII movies are aplenty , but Days of Glory offered a unique look at the battles by a group of men , for what they deem their motherland and will defend with their blood , and what more , for a land of people who do not see them as equals . Loving someone who does not love you back , sounds familiar ? And it's not just love , but sworn allegiance to protect at all costs . The movie is well paced and straddled moments of action and quiet contemplation with aplomb . Credit must go to the ensemble cast of actors who play the warriors of North Africa , as they battle both the enemies on French soil , as well as enemies of men's heart . They grapple with trying to remain rational in their reason ( s ) to do what they're doing . At times , watching this movie made me think about the recent flurry of mails to the press about foreign talent and the issue of citizenship , about NS obligations and whether PRs will flee at the first signs of trouble , or stand shoulder to shoulder with citizens ( also , who are those who will flee ? ) in defending our land . What are the issues of contention , discrimination against , or general presumptions about foreigners here ? Those expecting all out battle scenes might be disappointed . In truth the movie's never about the glorification of gore , violence and war - most scenes aren't really blood splattering to draw in the crowds . Instead , if you'd prefer moments where you can think out loud about the issues presented , then this is for you . However , the final battle would please action fans , as it is well choreographed and executed , and you feel both the pain and victory from a bunch of tightly knit soldiers trying their very best to defend a small town , in a samurai - seven-ish sort of way , also reminiscent of Saving Private Ryan's somehow . If you've missed this during the French Film Festival , don't fret . I believe this movie is also slated for general release . Keep a look out for it !
A Nutshell Review : Run Fatboy Run	I've only recently been converted to a Simon Pegg fan after the riotously funny Hot Fuzz , and can't wait for him to be in the upcoming JJ Abrams reboot of the Star Trek franchise . While squeezing time out to devour Shaun of the Dead , here comes David Schwimmer's Run Fatboy Run , where he piles on the kilos to play an unfit security guard Denny , who does the despicable because of self-doubt and unceremoniously dumps the pregnant love of his life , Libby ( Thandie Newton ) , at the altar . So fast forward to today , his routine of fetching his son to and from Libby's home gets interrupted by the arrival of her new boyfriend Whit ( Hank Azaria ) , the corporate type who has everything going for him , and of course we're off to a show of one-upmanship between the two men , and the marathon being their arena of battle , for the love of both the woman and the kid . The laughs come courtesy of the usual training sessions that Denny has to whip himself into shape given three weeks , thanks to good friend and Libby's cousin Gordon ( Dylan Moran ) and his landlord Mr Goshdashtidar ( Harish Patel ) . Visual gags are plentiful , as are the conversational ones , but there weren't any that could elicit tears from joy from me , which is usually my personal gauge as to whether the comedy is effective , or not . It's a simple tale of rising against the odds , believing in oneself , and being the man who's always there for his kid . Run Fatboy Run fortunately doesn't trod the conventional finale for a sports related movie , and though cheesy as expected and can be , still has its moments . Goes to show that every underdog has its day , if only they possess the never say die attitude . And speaking of which , I'm piling on the kilos , and need to run too !
A Nutshell Review : The Holiday	Trust me to look deep into a typical chick flick dealing with love and romance , and actually buying into it . The Holiday , starring Cameron Diaz , Kate Winslet , Jude Law and Jack Black , carries itself through via the solid performance of its cast , predominantly eye-candy , save one charismatic Jack in a non-comedic , dramatic role . Being character and issue driven , The Holiday has its characters all suffering from and being out of favour with Love , and from there , begin the story of their struggle and development . Stories of unrequited love , being taken for a ride , doubts about long distance relationships , commitment , and of course , trust . You'll probably feel for the four primary characters , because if you're someone who have even been in a relationship , then you're more than likely to identify with them , at one point or another as they move along the story , dealing with different aspects of love , but ultimately , being afraid of being hurt by Love . I thought Cameron Diaz was back at her ditzy best , being someone unable to feel and connect emotionally , and being cheated upon by her boyfriend played by Edward Burns . Kate Winslet was very believable as someone suffering from unrequited love , and looked ultra vulnerable , pining for her supposed beau portrayed by Rufus Sewell ( last seen in Tristan and Isolde ) . Jude Law doesn't do much except to turn on those charms when needed , while Jack Black was at his element when in the video store , with his character romancing Shannyn Sossamon , who more than faded away after her stint in A Knight's Tale opposite Heath Ledger . Much of the movie managed to unravel itself with quite a number of little surprises , as the trailer did not give away too much besides the fact that two out-of-love girls perform a home exchange during the holiday season , and found more than they bargained for with new opportunities in love . These little surprise elements are like presents being unwrapped during Christmas - you guess what's coming , get strong hints , and finally , while suspecting what the gift is , you'll still be pleasantly surprised at the outcome . Be they plot devices , elements or even characters , there are plenty of moments to warm your heart . I guess " cute " never ran out of fashion , not in this genre . What works is the pacing and editing . Running at 2 hours and 15 minutes , it will be rare if you find any moment a bit of a bore . While at the veneer there are tons of issues and problems about romance itself , and the trials and ghosts that each character had to exorcise , beneath the exterior are feel good , hopeful messages , those that you'd more or less expect a close friend to dispense , never mind if they sound cliché or obvious . Date movie , Christmas movie , romance and feel good drama all rolled into one , The Holiday is very much a been there done that trip down memory lane for those experienced , while at the same time giving plenty of hope to those who haven't or are holding out for that special someone . But only if you buy into its message . Feel the love , people , and peace and goodwill toward all men .
A Nutshell Review : Milk	Biopics work for me because I'm innately curious about that aspect of a person's life which makes it compelling enough for others to want to make a film out of it . This film by Gus Van Sant tells the story of California's first openly gay elected official Harrvey Milk over the span of the last 8 and definitely more fruitful years of his life where he discovers his calling ironically after confessing to a lover that he had so far not done anything constructive with his , and then with their subsequent move to San Franscisco . Milk is one of the films this year up for a number of accolades , more notably for Sean Penn's nuanced performance as Harvey Milk . I thought he had , with the help of make up , totally disappeared into the role , and gave it his all as the soft spoken , and idealistic political rookie who had to take on the big boys , as well as deep rooted bigotry and prejudice . And not only that , he has to contend with keeping his partner Scott Smith ( James Franco ) emotionally satisfied , since it's no longer a private world of their own , but one which faced the tussle of precious time as he finds it his calling to take up political office . I felt that while Franco has to date played plenty of pretty boy action roles , here he ramps up his dramatic performance opposite veteran Sean Penn , and managed to hold his own too . Not only that , the ensemble cast here had been top notch , and that's not only just kudos to the make up team in having them resemble their real life counterparts to a T . Josh Brolin as Dan White always had this unpredictable edge to him , and his involvement in the inevitable finale was nothing short of chilling to witness . Emile Hirsch as Cleve Jones plays one of Harvey's key assistants , and his role here was quite endearing , despite being only in a supporting capacity . Watching this film , you can't help but to appreciate just how long the USA took to change its perception and acceptance of the GLBT community . It takes relentless , continuous effort to effect change from within the political system through a very charismatic personality supported by his own grassroots . As the saying goes , change is the only constant and is inevitable , and one of the strategies undertaken here was to come out of the closet , so that friends and family could demolish the stigma of demonizing those who are queer and come to accept them , since after all , they could be immediate friends and family . This I thought was a smart move since it almost does away with negative perception and destructive assumptions , though it calls for a very stout heart for anyone to reveal who they truly are . Gus Van Sant had wonderfully mixed the filmed narrative with real archival footages to add that sense of realism to this biopic . He doesn't paint that pitch perfect portrait of Harvey Milk , and provided a sense of balance in that it does take whatever method that works to try and drum up support for their movement . Which I thought had echoed that plenty of successful ideologies thrive , not because what persists is that charismatic representative , but that of the doctrine that people subscribe to . And collectively and persistently , change can be effected . There's nothing too fancy about the way Harvey Milk's life got presented here , but it delivered where it mattered in having a solid narrative to illustrate the life of a man who's in pursuit to eradicate negative mindsets and the deeply harboured prejudice of man . The homosexual subject matter may be central here to the cause , but put aside , the same struggles and challenges to overcome are universal conditions that everyone will go through at one point or another . A highly recommended movie .
A Nutshell Review : Knowing	It's been quite a while since Alex Proyas was at the helm of a film , the last being I , Robot back in 2004 where he adapted Isaac Asimov's science fiction classic of the same name . He continues to dwell in the sci-fi realm again with Knowing , with leading man Nicolas Cage plucked from his National Treasure roots because his character here , MIT professor John Koestler , follows in the tradition of running around everywhere in search for answers and the truth . A widower , John's world consists of his estranged parents , sister Grace ( Nadia Townsend ) who pops by his home every now and then to check up on him , and his son Caoeb ( Chandler Canterbury ) , and if this was a film other than sci-fi , you would've suspected that there's some incestuous relationship between John and Grace being suggested at , which I thought Proyas had failed in toning the downright awkward looks they are passing at each other . But what Proyas succeeded , was the crafting of great atmosphere in keeping you guessing along with the characters , building up tension when necessary , but being succinctly to the point without dragging it out when it served no more purpose . It starts in the 50s where a time capsule is being assembled and the students are tasked to draw a picture each of what they perceive as the future . A girl who has been acting strangely had listed down a whole page of seemingly random numbers , which her teacher abruptly took from her to be sealed into the capsule . Fast forward to today , and it's preordained that Caleb would be the recipient of that strange sheet of numbers , which he brings home and John begins to decipher it while high on alcohol , only to discover that there's a pattern to those randomness , and so begins the quest in search for the truth , hunting down that little girl's offspring Diana ( Rose Byrne ) in between running from a handful of beings who seem to only want to communicate with children . There's this very strong theme running through the movie about randomness versus decisiveness , with one camp believing that everything's an independent development from one another , rather than a sequence already determined and laid out . It's like destiny , whether one has the option and choice to change it , or just perceived to have the ability to do so without any to begin with . When the numbers finally revealed themselves to mean something , could anything be done to prevent some of them from happening , leading to the ultimate event that seemed like a page out of the Book of Revelations . It too served as a cautionary environmental warning , though only fleetingly , in telling us how important the ozone layer is to our world , without which we would find ourselves in some really deep trouble . I suppose Proyas continues to be bitten by the special effects bug , given some groundbreaking CGI some many years back , which continue to be dabbled in and employed for this film , accentuating three key action sequences that would make any disaster movie feel envious . I've always been in awe at Final Destination's airplane disaster and that from Kairo / Pulse , but the catastrophe here upped the ante for the next film to follow suit , given a perfect continuous single take that deserves a second viewing . And the disasters shown here , no doubt only possible through CGI , puts one in the driver's seat and gives you a first person's perspective in how one would bear witness to such events , should one be there and then at the site . Nothing less than jawbreaking , I tell you , as it doesn't flinch from its intended violence , nor gratuitously glorifying such moment . It's been a while since we've seen a thinking man version of an action flick such as Deep Impact , and Knowing firmly rests with that film in being one amongst those that socks it right into your emotional core . Science fiction fans may be apprehensive after Hollywood's last big budgeted flick with The Day The Earth Stood Still , but Knowing comes definitely recommended and surpasses the former in almost every aspect .
A Nutshell Review : They Call Her . . . Cleopatra Wong	" She purrs like a kitten , makes love like a siren . This side of the Pacific , she's the meanest , deadliest , and sexiest secret agent " That's the tagline for the movie , and it's Singapore's answer to the 70s female action powerhouses like Charlie's Angels . Cleopatra Wong ( Doris Young aka Marrie Lee ) is an international Interpol agent whose mission in this film is to crack an illegal counterfeiting group whose sole objective is to destabilize the currencies of ASEAN countries Singapore , Malaysia , Indonesia , Thailand and the Philppines . Sounds diabolical , doesn't it ? And it's a job only a cosmopolitan agent like Cleo Wong can handle , as she jet sets from Singapore to Hong Kong to the Philippines , hot on the trail of these crooks , manufacturing fake currencies in a convent . She even shows her leadership qualities in leading an all male group of agents on the attack of the crooks hideout against machine gun-totting fake nuns . Shown as the " Female Big Boss " , the montage at the beginning shows the abilities of Cleo Wong as top fighter and archer , whom even Robin Hood is no match for with her simultaneous firing of 3 arrows , blowing up a helicopter in the process ( yes , they did blow up a helicopter , back in the 70s for this show ! ) With older films , what catches the eye is usually the environment and the state of development of Singapore at that time . Here , we viewed the Paya Lebar International Airport , an old 70s Mercedes Benz , and the city skyline which has many buildings noticeably absent . We go from the mainland to Sentosa via cable car , following Cleo's footsteps , and come across vastly different and sparse beaches that we're unfamiliar with today . Local actor / DJ Brian Richmond also had a role in this film as Cleo's Singapore boss . I overheard the people around me laugh and shake their heads on the impossibility of some scenes - like Cleo Wong single-handedly taking on 3 wrestlers ( one of whom is local famous wrestler Mehar Singh ) , and leaping ( yes , leaping without aid ) over tall walls in escape . Or the scenes in which the raid on the hideout using guns resulted in prolonged and painful ( no pun intended ) death scenes . I suppose one must take into context the sign of the times , where kung-fu action was punctuated with exaggerated sound effects , and where the slightest punch will effect in maximum flying damage . All in all , it's a fun film which one shouldn't miss . This was the film that was produced for an international audience , and one which resulted in catching the eye of Quentin Tarantino ! Cleopatra Wong definitely lived up to her tagline . Those interested in catching this film , there will be additional screenings at The Arts House on 22 Aug 05 Mon 2130hrs and 23 Aug 05 Tue 1900hrs .
A Nutshell Review : The Mission	Many have lauded The Mission as a classic , and I don't deny that . However , as the unofficially loose precursor to Johnnie To's recent movie Exiled , The Mission did seem quite dated , but you can be dead sure that many of Exiled's plot points , characterization and stylistic influences , get established as far back to this 1999 movie . A triad leader , Brother Lung ( Eddy Ko ) , survives an assassination attack , and to protect oneself , you'll get together an A-Team of your merry men as bodyguards , entrusting your life to the skill of their gunmanship . His brother Frank ( Simon Yam ) gathers this team , consisting of your day to day average working professionals - Curtis ( Anthony Wong ) , Roy ( Francis Ng , somehow credited as Francis Wong ) , Shin ( Jackie Lui ) , Mike ( Roy Cheung ) , and James ( played by the ever reliable Lam Suet , sans pencil thin moustache ) . While they are barbers , gangsters , valets and technical experts , they are as deadly with a loaded gun , and coordinate extremely well as a team , only that they don't know it yet . Naturally there are existing cliques amongst the five , and their rawness in working together resulted in a partial failure of their very fist mission - the assassins escape , we journey together in their mission to protect , and see first hand how they command respect of each other , and how they befriend one another . In other words , the practice of the triads code of brotherhood and camaraderie , in trusting each other too with their lives , as they seek an end to their mission , to return to their normal lives . The Mission is a visual treat to action fans , though as I mentioned , the action itself might look dated . What's key here , and extremely well done , is the buildup . The anticipation of the prey , the feeling of the unknown , the entire setup for the kill . Shootouts occur in a narrow alleyway , and in an abandoned warehouse amongst others , but my favourite would be the one in the mall . It might be strange that as a protection detail , they chose to leave in the open , and when the crowd is absent . Perhaps it's easier to spot suspicious persons ? One thing's for sure , to enjoy the suspense , forget about the why and the what if questions ( Where are the security guards ? Where are the police ) , but just soak in the moment . I can't get enough of those ultra cool poseur shots , and the ones at the shopping mall were probably the best in the movie . The somewhat trippy , somehow happy theme track made it seem a little awkward accompanying the plenty suspenseful build up , but strangely it all worked , even when it's used for light hearted moments . Written by long time collaborator Yau Nai-hoi ( who this year had made his directorial debut with Eye in the Sky ) , the tale is not a gun battle a minute story , but a look at the code of brotherhood amongst the men - do they follow orders to a T because their boss orders it , or do they have it inside them to do what their heart tells them ? If you've watched Exiled , this conflict amongst the team already had its roots here , and watching The Mission in hindsight , you could never had guessed that this theme could alone could spin off into its own separate storyline in Exiled . My advice would be to watch The Mission and Exiled as a double bill - fans out there would probably not get enough ! I'm sure I will pop both the DVDs into my player soon for back to back viewings ! If you , like me , have watched Exiled first , then this movie surely is not to be missed . The Code 3 DVD by Mei Ah Entertainment isn't really fantastic , but I suppose for the price I paid , you don't come to expect a chock load of extras . You get a choice of either the Cantonese language track or the Mandarin track , in either Dolby Digital or Dolby Surround 5 . 1 . However at times , the audio does seem erratic and at certain points in dialogue , the audio level will fluctuate inconsistently . Subtitles come in traditional or simplified Chinese , and English . I watched the DVD with the English subtitles on , and though it's fairly good , there were minor spelling typos spotted every now and then . A letterbox version , the visual transfer isn't pristine as well , as it can get quite noisy and sometimes turn out to be rather blocky . As mentioned , it's a bare bones version , consisting of a Data Bank with a very scantily written synopsis which can also be found on the back cover of the DVD sleeve , and the Cast and Crew credits , which can be obtained from the actual end credits from the movie . The Data Bank comes in both English and Mandarin texts . Besides the stylish theatrical trailer ( 1min 25sec ) with no dialogue , but just the pulsating soundtrack from the movie , a chapter selection is included ( 9 chapters in total ) , and a " Best Buy " section featuring the trailer for Ringo Lam's movie " Victim " starring Lau Ching Wan and Tony Leung Ka Fai .
A Nutshell Review : Ong Bak	Now this is rare , am actually reviewing a movie I watched on TV . But how can I miss Ong Bak when Tom Yum Goong is around the corner , and I'd actually missed this movie during it's run at the local theatres ! I'm not going to go through the details of the story - it's a simple plot about an ancient Buddha statue called Ong Bak , whose head is stolen by artifact hunters , and it's up to local village folk hero Ting who volunteers to retrieve it back from Bangkok . There , he meets up with some friends and embarks on a fight-laden journey to the bowels of the city in order to fulfill his mission . What's appealing is that the main lead , played by Tony Jaa , impresses with his brand of real kung-fu . Make that Muay-Thai boxing , the real deal . He's today's Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan , the latter being older and wanting to move on to drama . So Tony Jaa should claim the mantle of Asia's kung-fu king from Jackie Chan , and perhaps Jet Li too . Jaa's reflexes is lightning fast , and martial arts moves , lethal and deadly . I can never forget the strong punches , knees , elbows , and the feints with the kicks . Awesome , violent stuff there . No holds barred . But that's not all , besides martial arts , he's quite nimble and shows off his skills with some acrobatics during a chase scene along the back streets of Bangkok . The runs , squeezes , side splits , jumping side splits , under and sliding splits . Wow . The scenes get repeated in slow motion and in different angles , but I'm not a bit disturbed by the " show-offy " sequences . It's the real - no wires , no stunt doubles , all Jaa ! And as if to emulate a typical Jackie Chan movie , there's always that bit of humour some of the acrobatic scenes , the tuk-tuk chase , and also courtesy of a sidekick . But when it comes down to the fighting arena , it's all dead serious action , which many action fans will definitely enjoy . Tom Yum Goong , I'm already in the queue !
A Nutshell Review : Prince Caspian	Taking place just a year after they left Narnia ( which in Narnia time is about 1300 years since they've left ) , the Pevensie siblings - Peter ( William Moseley ) , Susan ( Anna Popplewell ) , Edmund ( Skandar Keynes ) and Lucy ( Georgie Henley ) get summoned back to Narnia and realize that things have drastically change since the last time they remembered it . The animals seemed edgier and have more angst , and their new guide for Narnia , the dwarf Trumpkin ( Peter Dinklage ) replaces the James McAvoy's fawn , filling in some quick history lessons for our quartet who return to Narnia in an age almost similar to the first time they set foot there . Summoning them is Prince Caspian ( Ben Barnes ) , who's a ruler-in-waiting having to flee from his land because of an assassination plot , and teams up with summoned Kings and Queens to retake his homeland as well as to bring peace toward all . Noble thoughts indeed , but not without its problems of course . A land cannot have too many kings ( as we learn from Lord of the Rings ) , and while Edward knows of his place in the hierarchy of things , Peter the Magnificent surely felt Prince Caspian a threat , and both do not hit off really well , especially when their strategies of war appear to be in conflict . Nonetheless through their trials in the story , they will learn and realize lessons in humility , especially when they know they are subject to similar temptations of short cuts to absolute power and victory they crave . While this is more of a Peter story than an Edward one ( Who had his fair share in the previous installment ) , William MOseley's performance as Peter do allow you to both hate and cheer for him as the story develops , while Skandar Keynes taking a backseat meant that he gets all the coolest moves as an action fighter . Ben Barnes came across as a speaker with a Spanish accent , quite arrogant in the first place , at least until his benefactors arrive , whom he got acquainted with only through folk tales he learnt from his teacher . Although the titular character , it does seem that Caspian himself plays a supporting role to the quartet , given that we're more interested in their return and the change that they'll bring . However , if the Narnia movies were to proceed with another , then expect Barnes to play a larger role then . Anna Popplewell's Susan continues her role as the female archer , and doesn't really add much to the mythos , except perhaps for the fleeting romance and affection she develops for the good looking Caspian , while Georgie Henley's Lucy is a little bit grown up now , but still retaining that bit of innocence in her as the sole believer and seeker of Azlan , bearing all of Narnia's hopes on her lithe shoulders . The special effects also took a great leap forward , improving upon the lacklustre hack job done in the earlier movie , and the talking animals , for once , I thought they didn't irritate ( yes , talking animals get on my nerves , after so many movies exploiting this cheap trick to infuse into their plots ) . Shrek lovers will undoubtedly fall in love with a new character in the movie styled as a mouseketeer , erm , musketeer , and if I were a shrewd toy businessman , I'd stock up on this particular plush toy ( seems like rats these days get lots of love ! ) . To top it all off , there are some nicely put cameos which links back to the first movie , and having their share in some intense sequences , no less . There are a lot of good things about Prince Caspian , and I'm happy to report that it builds on the original which served as a foundation on which better things are built upon , and thankfully , this sequel focused on its strengths instead of getting bogged by its weaknesses , and provided all round entertainment with what I would deem as a guilty pleasure . Highly recommended , especially to detractors of the first movie , this one is set to put the franchise on an even keel !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Galaxy Quest ( 1999 )	There are countless of Star Trek spoofs out there , but this one really takes the cake . It's funny , witty , thoroughly enjoyable , and stars Tim Allen of the Home Improvement TV series ( which I am " proud " to admit I never saw an episode before horrors ) Directly spoofing the original Star Trek series , Tim Allen plays a William Shatner clone with wicked delight . Here , he's Jason Nesmith , a self-centered man who's Captain Peter Taggart on the show Galaxy Quest . Rounding off his main crew are Sigourney Weaver , who plays buxomy blonde Gwen DeMarco / Lt . Tawny Madison , whose only job is to repeat what the ship's computer says , and Alan Rickman , as Alexander Dane / Dr . Lazarus , the token non-human on-board the ship , making him the butt of many alien jokes . While the cast and crew of Galaxy Quest are made to be all chummy and such , in reality , they are a bunch of quarreling has-beens whose show has been canceled 20 years ago , and are now making ends meet by attending conventions , and opening electrical stores . Until one day , an alien race of Thermians come visiting . They have been watching the transmissions of Galaxy Quest episodes , and have considered them to be " historical documents " of earth and its heroes . Naturally , they bring on board the crew to their ship , the Protector , modeled after the TV series . Only thing is , it's real . So the Galaxy Quest crew have to play what they have been playing for years , except that it's for real . The ship , the planets , and the enemies as well . They have to quickly learn that they can only survive the harsh galaxy by believing in themselves , since everything on the ship works as it's imagined to be , and by believing in one another , just like in the show . Which is a pretty nifty message inserted into a comedic movie . It's extremely fun , and do watch out for Sam Rockwell as Crewman Number 6 , an extra on the original series who somehow get caught up in the mess , and crossing his fingers each time that he won't die , like on the show . I've regretted not being able to have caught this in the theatres when it opened , given that it featured 3 aspect ratios in the same film , it would have been an experience to have watched it on the big screen , only if they screened it properly . Nonetheless , the DVD comes packed with loads of extras , so you might want to pick it up and watch it . Code 1 DVD extras : Deleted scenes , making-of documentary , trailers , and an entire audio track in Thermian ! Never give up , never surrender !
A Nutshell Review : Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire	Just to get it straight , I have not read a single line in a Harry Potter Book . Not that I don't want to , but because I don't have the time . Probably when I finally watched all the movies would I consider and find time to read what JK Rowling had originally intended . So , at least you know that my review is solely based on the cinematic franchise . And I'm glad to say that this movie had lived up to its hype of being darker and more adult . Gone are the muggles ( hardly see any now ) which opened each HP movie before ( with added comedy , now thrown out ) , and you're plunged straight into the thick of action with the Quidditch World Cup . Which turns into a massacre of sorts , signaling the inevitable of the evil Lord Voldemort . Not that the muggles are left out on purpose , but if you had taken a look at this book's length , it's no surprise that unnecessary subplots need not get translated to screen . Stick with the main plot , and trim it down to a more palatable 2hr 45min movie . But with so much going on screen , you will hardly realize the length of time in which you butt is on a cinema seat . So what's the main plot you say ? It's the Tri-Wizards tournament , a potentially deadly series of 3 games which pit the skills of the wizards from 3 schools against each other . The winner will be crowned with eternal glory . But something seemed strange when Harry Potter somehow got nominated by the Goblet of Fire to participate , thus bringing the number of contestants to 4 , and breaking the age limit set in this tournament . As usual , there is always a major mystery that runs throughout the movie - the motive behind his nomination and taking part in the Tri-Wizards tournament , which gets solved in the end with the introduction of a twist ( which may not be a twist for those who've read the books ) . So while Harry is surprised and becomes the reluctant hero , he has to grapple with first loves and crushes , while trying to convince best friend Ron that it wasn't his intention to gain eternal glory and therefore rigged his nomination for the tournament . Great care is given to make the tournament come alive with its special effects , and to that , it's faultless . While we didn't see the other dragons in action , the Hungarian species ( no dragons were harmed in the making of this movie , says the end credits ) which challenged Potter could be one of the best action sequences in Goblet of Fire . However , with the intense focus on this , something's gotta give way , and sadly , it's the relationship between Harry , Ron and Hermione . Not that they don't get to interact , but the camaraderie and the bickering these folks endeared themselves to are somehow sorely missed . Goblet of Fire seemed more like a one-man show ( Harry Potter's ) , while the other two become peripheral characters . Quite a pity . But the actors Daniel Radcliffe , Emma Watson and Rupert Grint still delivered , and with them growing up in real time , adds a dimension of maturity to the cult characters they play . So much is said about Radcliffe's half nude scene ( with a character from a past movie ) , and of Cho Chang , but what probably iced the cake was Ralph Fiennes ' appearance as Lord Voldemort . One word - chilling ! One scene did irk me though , and that is the careless editing at the prom / ball scene . One minute Harry and Ron were sulking at the table , with Hermione obviously in cloud nine with the company of Viktor Krum , the next minute they're bickering and she's crying . While I know what they are trying to get at , and hint at a possible jealousy between Ron and Hermione , the editing was poorly done and was just jarring , disrupting the pace and flow . I didn't figure why they would want to scrimp on that scene , what's a few minutes more in a long movie , or they could take it out altogether . Nonetheless , I dare say this is the best Harry Potter movie to date , though some would disagree with my opinion that the movies have seemed to better itself with each sequel . Bring on the Order of the Phoenix !
A Nutshell Review : Rule # 1	I'm sure some of you out there would conveniently associate Kelvin Tong's reputation with the dismal Men in White , forgetting that the writer-director had his success stories in his earlier works Eating Air and The Maid . You can tell clearly that I did not really enjoy MiW , nor his experimental Love Story , but with Rule # 1 , Kelvin Tong gets my vote of confidence henceforth , if he steers clear of bad comedy , and pretentious art house flicks . What I do like about his movies , each one of them , is how he grips you right from the start . How it develops then on is a different tale , but his introductions are nothing short of mesmerizing . Here , he demolishes all preconceived notions you have when watching a movie , and warns you of sorts about the experience you're going to go through with Rule # 1 , that is , to throw all assumptions out of the window . In fact , the opening scenes were frantic and leaves you just enough to continue questioning in which direction the movie will propel itself forward . And thankfully , it made all the right moves , despite momentarily lapses in succumbing to cheap scares that don't really add much value to the movie . Yes , we know how Kelvin crafts scenes that will send shivers down your spine until the crescendo ( even Men in White's introduction had shades of this ) , and they all work here too , except that I thought that they were a little unnecessary except to anchor the movie in the land of the supernatural . It's central plot doesn't become clear until midway through the movie , and from then on it lunges to a higher plateau at breakneck speed , with the audience probably second and triple guessing themselves all the way to the finale , with flashbacks at times becoming a little too spelt out for good . It's a smart move to have this movie made in Hong Kong , where he has able crew ( Cinematographer Keung Kwok Man lensed the movie and made it look really edgy ) and leads like Ekin Cheng and Shawn Yue to carry the movie through . Ekin plays the head honcho in the police force's Miscellaneous Affairs Department ( MAD , heh ) , which handles the 2 % of calls synonymous with the X-Files . His Inspector Wong's drunken antics and devil may care attitude seem to stem from his long serving years in MAD , but he survives day to day with his mantra Rule # 1 - There is no such things as ghosts - which he imparts to team rookie Sergeant Lee ( Shawn Yue ) , who slowly learns that the mantra and scientific explanations seem to run contrary to what Wong really knows . I thought Yue gave a tremendous performance in his role as the pained Lee in John Constantine garb , who in his second chance at life seemed to have opened his eyes to ghosts who walk on this earth . While scenes where the two male leads play off each other are limited , I particularly enjoyed the one where they staked out their prey , which had them banter on rather matter-of-factly at how they would approach the impending scenario , before their greatest fears come alive , and that rug from under our feet starts to stir . Sure there are familiar shades from movies like Fallen and Suicide Club , and a lot of " waking up " moments , but they never did once mar my enjoyment of the movie as it went along . Rule # 1 had enough suspenseful moments to thrill , and Kelvin Tong seemed very assured to be in familiar grounds of horror . Those expecting an all out fright-fest may be slightly disappointed as it turns on the supernatural spin a lot more than the boo-moments , and fans of Fiona Xie will find that their Mediacorp darling still got relegated to a flower vase role in a one-dimensional performance , despite this being her second movie outing ( after One Leg Kicking ) . Here she plays the dutiful girlfriend to Sergeant Lee , and that's about it , being half-asleep most of the time ( no , nothing sexy about that too ) . Mark my words , Rule # 1 is Kelvin Tong's best movie to date , and definitely very well executed , as good as or even better than any Asian thriller in recent memory . He has shown again that he can craft commercially viable movies with relatively original stories to tell . Note the release date on your calendar , and give it a go next week !
A Nutshell Review : American Gangster	Ridley Scott's American Gangster has many similar parallels to Derek Yee's Protégé , in that it's a story about the scourge of drugs , and each containing the respective insights into the entire production , processing and distribution processes , stemming again from material sources in South East Asia . While the latter is a fictional account , American Gangster is based on the true story of Frank Lucas ( Denzel Washington ) , the black drug lord whose meteoric rise to power was deemed incredulous because of race and colour , and the story of the detective Richie Roberts ( Russell Crowe ) whose team had broken through the complex web of mon dealings to take down the gangsters , as well as their corrupt own . This epic movie , clocking in at slightly more than 2 . 5 hours , takes its time to tell the respective stories , which on their own could be standalone equivalents , no doubt boosted by the powerhouse performances by award winning actors Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe , who is into his third collaboration with Ridley after movies like Gladiator and A Good Year . While the story may seem straight-forward without any spectacular twists and turns , it's based solely on the credible performances as well as the re-creation of the late 60s-early 70s environment of New York , where blatant corruption seemed to be the norm of the day . Crowe's Richie perhaps have the lesser screen time of the two , like an Elliot Ness equivalent in being the incorruptible cop in a corrupt force , whose reputation of turning in a million dollars instead of pocketing it , preceded him . This made him an automatic choice in creating his own squad of Untouchables , assembling a team of similarly principled men to work outside the system , to go after the big fish . While his boy scout character might seem boring , here's where the script by Steven Zaillian adds a little flavour in throwing in shades of grey . While Richie is honest to his job , a little examination into his private life has him being quite the ladies ' man , as well as struggling with his estranged wife to fight for custody of their child . Washington's Frank Lucas on the other hand , had the meat , given after all the movie is about the crime lord . The first hour charted his rise and it is the buildup that makes this movie so compelling as it tapers toward the inevitable finale , as you discover how deep the rot of corruption is , and having links to the Vietnam War and the army . His " Blue Magic " heroin product sells for half the price and double the potency as middlemen are cut off , and shipment is relatively free - I'd dare say this is ingenious , and makes a monkey out of the authorities . And it is his segment that proved to be more interesting of the two - OK , so everyone would like to know how he did what he did , versus a straight cop's quest to putting away those involved with the entire business . There were many fine points made especially for those who are in the business of being crooked . If you notice all the high profile corporate fraud cases , most are done in because money corrupts one into an opulent lifestyle , bringing uncalled for attention to oneself . Here , Lucas ' principle is similar , to keep a low profile , but alas everyone has their moment of oversight and carelessness . To continue my admiration of the guy's work ethics , and probably because of the nature of the business , no one is trusted except for family . I guess a crime family is easier to raise since blood is supposedly more trustworthy than random hired hands . While we see Richie's assembly of a few good men for his cause of righteousness , we also witness the creation of a mob family from scratch , but as we all know , time will tell if the kinks within the family can be worked out , or go against the ruler with an iron fist . Scott somehow seemed to emphasize family for a fair bit , with periodic shots for comparison put side by side for the audience to form their conclusions . Don't be expecting any major scenes of killing , choosing instead to be based on powerful dialogue as the gun battles here are few and far between , usually over as quickly as they start because Frank Lucas doens't fall into the usual fictional villains ' lapse into monologues . The action sequences might be few , but they are sure pack their punch despite their short duration . Everything's paced rather nicely , and I particularly enjoyed the entire buildup , though the ending felt a little rushed because there are little that could be elaborated at that point . Fans of Denzel and Russell who want to see these two strong actors share the same screen / scene , will be a tad disappointed , as they do so only toward the finale , lasting no more than 10 minutes , but those turn out to be the gem they were , so savour every moment of it properly . The second mobster movie this week , it's a difficult toss up between Ridley Scott's American Gangster and David Cronenberg's Eastern PRomises . If you're tired of blood and gore with a twist , and would prefer something based on a true story told in a more straightforward manner , then American Gangster will be your choice . IF I may say , there's nothing really spectacular about the plot , but it works , thanks to Ridley Scott's confident direction , and the A-plus performances by Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe .
A Nutshell Review : Swades : We , the People	I'm been very much impressed by the films of Ashutosh Gowariker with his epics like Jodhaa Akbar and Lagaan , that it's a no brainer for me to continue seeking out his earlier films , especially so when they have been scored with music provided by A . R . Rahman . Swades : We , the People struck a common chord in some aspects of the story with Delhi-6 , but only just , and I found it strangely compelling to dwell a little on some similarities between the two . Well for starters both had an NRI ( Non-Resident Indian , or jokingly mocked as Non - Returning Indian ) returning from the United States , only to find themselves in a small town / village / district where the ways of their lives are a little backward , and the protagonist has to find time to get used to the slower pace , and life without its luxuries , even what we deem as basic like electricity . Email ? Internet ? Unheard of , naturally . There's also some time in both narratives dedicated to the well known story of the three way tussle in Lord Ram , Sita and Ravana , though the one in Swades benefited from Rahman's wonderful music enveloping the stage play , in more complete terms than that in Delhi-6 ( also scored by Rahman by the way ) . And when it's a blast to the past , some common themes that seem to find themselves a staple in a Gowariker film are the tackling of caste ( Lagaan ) , as well as religion ( Jodhaa Akbar ) , with the need to see the bigger picture and to overcome these issues and put aside differences for the greater good . Arranged marriages too have no place amongst women who are strong , independent and self-reliant , but I guess such tradition and customs are still quite commonplace and widely practiced , for movies from then until now still featuring such arrangements in the plot , as if to mirror some frowning of the deliberate , and sometimes forced practices of culture and tradition , just because . LIke how Abhishek's character echoed in Delhi-6 , " India works , the people make it work " , it's like a wake up call to the community as seen in Swades too , that while there are niggling issues like corruption and the reliance of social crutches in tradition or culture , things really work when everyone rolls their sleeves and get down to doing things . In Swades , everyone complains about the lack of electricity and the frequent disruption , but it takes one guy to wake them up and show them the way to progress . Aamir Khan took on such a role in Lagaan , and in Swades , Shah Rukh Khan plays that equivalent in Mohan Bhargav , a project manager in USA's NASA who journeys back to India in search of his foster mother Kaveriamma ( Kishori Balal ) because he's feeling guilty of abandoning her . Clocking in at just over 3 hours ( which recent Gowariker film isn't ? ) , it allows plenty of space for a number of themes to be explored . The narrative also took advantage of the run time to inject the staple romance and exploration of Mohan in his new environment , and the vast myriad of likable characters here also add to the film's endearing approach . Running central in the story is Mohan's tussle with his lady love Gita ( Gayatri Joshi , in her debut and only role to date ? ) for his foster mother who's now also the only family of the latter and her brother Chikku ( Smith Seth ) . Mohan wants to bring Kaveriamma back to the US to enjoy the last stage of her life amongst luxuries , while Gita wants her to stay in India . Both have their selfish reasons , and needless to say , falling in love just complicates matters . If affairs of the heart is not your cup of tea , then Mohan's one man crusade to fight for what's correct , and galvanizing support at the grassroots and community level , do make it a little moving as he sees what everyone doesn't , or choose not to , unless you go on the ground like he did . One of the more poignant scenes , which also provides the opportunity for Rahman's Yeh Tara Woh Tara theme song for Swades , takes place in a community outdoor screening . With the screen set up in the middle of the field , the upper caste folks get to sit on the right side , with benches too for VIPs , while the lower caste folks sit on the opposite side of the screen , and obviously the incorrect side , having to view the movie in its mirror image , separated and out of view from the higher caste . In one fell swoop , Mohan uses the downtime of electricity interruption to demolish the unhealthy practices through children , who are always colour / race / creed-blind , and through them , hopefully , educating the older generation on the spot , while bringing about reasonable change of mindsets amongst the new generation . This scene alone sticks , amongst many others thanks to Gowariker's strong story , and direction . At its basic level , with Hindi movies travelling the world for its global audience , the film seeks to call out to the NRIs to remember their roots , and to make that contribution back to their homeland , given that while there are problems that might have contributed to push factors , with the success , knowledge , capabilities and resources now ploughed back , they would effect some change no matter how small , and progress will always be made with that single small step in the right direction . The film isn't as heavy as it might seem , and that's the beauty of it , working itself on many levels . I've yet to be disappointed by a Gowariker film , and am going to continue seeking out even earlier films , while waiting with bated breath for his next .
A Nutshell Review : Cinderella Man	" In all the history of the boxing game , you'll find no human interest story to compare with the life narrative of James J . Braddock . " - Damon Runyon ( 1936 ) Yet another boxing movie on the heels of Ali and Million Dollar Baby you might add ? Yes , and agreeing with Runyon , this movie , director Ron Hward's second collaboration with Russell Crowe ( the first being A Beautiful Mind ) , about the Depression-era boxer Jim Braddock packs a wallop like Ali and brings on some sniffles like Baby . James Braddock is on track to take a shot at the heavyweight boxing title , living the life with his family of 3 kids , until the Great Depression sets in . Braddock too was affected after poor investment calls , and hence join the millions who are jobless and penniless . Given a second chance by Fate to re-enter the boxing arena , he finds himself back into a sport which had forgotten him , and is determined to succeed in order to sustain his family through the Depression . He isn't boxing for himself , for fame and glory , but more so to bring back the bacon for his hungry children . I haven't seen many dramatic films set during the Great Depression , and this meshing of boxing and drama set against that background worked extremely well , with its majestic sets . Family is important to Jim , and he goes to great pains to ensure his family is able to stay together during these turbulent times . Personifying Hope , he's the working class ' underdog hero , during a time when the very rich were still living it off comfortably . The transition style used , though not new , are well executed , like the mirror cum dressing table scene from pre-Depression to Depression era , and the transition from match to match using overhead shots . The boxing action sequences are extremely well choreographed , and you'll feel every urge to get up and shadow box alongside Jim as well . Every hit in the cheeks , in the chest , smack on the kisser , at times slow down to a photographic moment , complete with old fashioned camera flashes . Unlike Million Dollar Baby's bailing of the sport to end with euthanasia , this one is boxing out and out , right until the gruelling 15 round finale with champ Max Baer . Much is said about Russell Crowe's performance as Jim Braddock , and I'd say he deserved the praises . Ranging as the tough as nails fighter in the ring , to tender loving husband and father , his role as Jim allowed him to showcase his acting chops yet again . He has a charismatic screen presence , be it general-turned-gladiator , or schizophrenic genius , he never fails to draw the audience into his role . Renee Zellweger was cast in a safe role as Jim's dutiful wife Mae , looking after the household as Jim seeked dough , always backing and supporting her husband , yet always worrying about his injuries , or worse , death . Put both of them together , and you'll see a lovely couple who sticks with each other through good times and bad . But the surprise scene stealer was Paul Giamatti ( Sideways ' Miles ) as Jim's manager Joe Gould , the ever encouraging , ever opportunity seeker and chief adviser of Jim's gameplay . In one particularly moving scene , he explained the need for keeping up appearances , and staked almost everything he had to back their boxing comeback . And EPL Soccer Man Utd fans , is it just me , or does Max Baer ( Craig Bierko ) , the heavyweight champ in the final fight , resemble Ruud Van Nistelrooy from certain angles ( attitude too ) ? Amongst the slew of releases this week , Cinderella Man ranks as number One on the " To-Watch " list . Some might criticise the lack of sophistication in telling a Hollywood tale , but it is precisely this familiarity which allows you to connect . Does this movie scream Oscar ? Probably , but given boxing cousin Million Dollar Baby snagging most of the previous awards , Cinderella Man might be in for a tough fight to convince voters . Nonetheless , it's highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : Brave Story	Say " Anime " these days , and the brewing spat between the local anime community and the company Odex will spring to mind , with the latter suing illegal downloaders of their licensed anime and allegedly gloating over the internet , leaving a bad aftertaste amongst the online folks . But I'm not into serialized anime ( ok , I hear those chants of you-don't-know-what - you're-missing ) , but frankly , I prefer animated movies , as they're to the point , and nothing beats watching them on the big screen . I thought Brave Story was going to be quite ordinary ( from the trailer ) , but I was glad I was so wrong . It had an interesting premise , and built up nicely to a satisfying conclusion . It played on one of the questions I used to ask myself - what if one day you find everything going just wrong for you , and you're presented an opportunity to make them all right again , albeit with heavy personal sacrifice . Will you leave things as they are , or take the risk and go for it , with zero guarantees everything will come out just fine ? Based on a novel by Miyuki Miyabe , Brave Story has its protagonist , a young boy named Wataru , who seemed to be living the good life , until his world comes crashing down and he sees for himself his dad walking out on the family , and his mum succumbing to illness and is hospitalized . With a tip from the new boy in school , Mitsuru , he decides to try his luck at changing his destiny by passing through a magical gateway , which transports him to the World of Vision , a fantasy land where he has to look for the Tower of Fortune , where the Goddess of Fortune resides in and will grant a single wish . For Wataru , the choice is simple - to get his mother well again . Fans of medieval fantasies like Dungeons and Dragons ( not the movie incarnation ) and games like Might and Magic , will have plenty of reasons to like Brave Story . It's like being the gamemaster , and observing your gamer wander around the make believe land recruiting followers , strike alliances , and battle foes , with some sword and sorcery thrown in . The world of Vision that Wataru journeys to , feels like Disneyland with its many worlds partitioned separately for exploration , and adventure . And it strikes the chord right in the beginning , offering some masterful strokes of comedy , and bestowing our protagonist not with great power , but starting him off right at the bottom , as a " hero apprentice " , thereby holding your attention as you wait patiently for him to gain some experience . What made Brave Story work , is clearly the character of Wataru . He's not all powerful , and through his earnestly unwitting and bumbling ways , serve to appeal to you as time goes by . For the young , he's sort of an ideal role model , at times too ideal ( hey , I got no qualms with Jin Yong's goody-two-shoes Guo Jing character too ) but then you realize that sometimes , these are the kind of boy scout heroes who are lacking screen appearances , and for a change , refreshing . They are plenty of situations where Wataru has to make critical decisions on sacrifice and morals , and in doing so however , stunted the story with predictable outcomes . But Brave Story more than makes up for it with a host of supporting casts like the Lizard humanoid Kee-Keema , feline Meena , a pet baby dragon , and The Highlanders . The antagonist Mitsuru though , provides ample tussle and the clash of values with Wataru , and he's primarily the " villain " , although a sympathetic one , to make our hero look good , and play off against , providing strong messages on friendship - sometimes your values are different , but if you're the friends forever type , you surely know who to count on when the going gets rough . The animation might not be cutting edge , but it presents the material squarely , and occasionally had the wow-factor , especially in its grander depiction of the finale battles towards the end . Watch this in a proper theatre , and you'd appreciate the job the folks at Skywalker Sound has done . Brave Story might not have a lot of bells and whistles , but its buildup to the story , and its powerful ending , more than makes up for any potential flaws . Animes don't make it to our local screens very often , so supporting a good film like this , will pave the way to more good material coming our way .
A Nutshell Review : Tokyo Marigold	Director-in-Attendance Ichikawa Jun was again present to introduce Tokyo Marigold , his 15th film . He shared that he had made films for 20 years , and tomorrow's screening of How to Become Myself is his 20th film , therefore he's been making about one film a year ! There are 3 movies to date that he had made containing the title " Tokyo " - Tokyo Lullaby , Tokyo Siblings , and Tokyo Marigold . He's born in Tokyo and has lived in the city ever since , and therefore liked it very much . The first two movies were nostalgia movies , based on the Tokyo of old , while today's movie is more contemporary and about today's Tokyo , tackling the life of a contemporary Japanese girl . Based on a novel by Hayashi Mariko , Tokyo Marigold would currently rank as my favourite of 3 Jun Ichikawa movies I've seen to date . It's a contemporary look at modern day relationships , following the protagonist , Eriko Sakai ( Rena Tanaka ) in her very strange proposal and arrangement with Tamura ( Yukiyoshi Ozawa ) . Meeting in a blind group date , they start off as platonic friends , before dating casually , and while we know that Eriko is single and lonely ( suspend your disbelief here , as if pretty women don't experience that sometimes ? ) , Tamura is awaiting the return of his girlfriend from America . As we hear of horror stories involving long distance relationships and the relatively higher propensity to cheat on each other , Eriko and Tamura go deeper into their relationship and enter the next stage , except that their contract stems from a strange agreement that Eriko sets , that Tamura be her boyfriend for just one year , before his girlfriend returns to Japan . It's hard to think that someone would already place a finite duration on a relationship , to put an end firmly in sight . In what could be to counter their loneliness experienced in a metropolitan city , this temporal relationship start to take its toil on both parties - one taking the other for granted , while the other trying her best to make the most of that one year . You wonder if such a relationship based on triviality would prevail , as it's something that seemed doomed from the very start to begin with . But under Ichikawa Jun's direction , the surface is always very beautiful , and again some hallmarks which I thought made Tokyo Marigold extremely enjoyable to sit through , despite its darker undertones . It has an excellent soundtrack of pop tunes , and he managed to , given that it's somewhat an ode to the city he resides in , infuse scenes of everyday Tokyo , including familiar landmarks , without making them intrude forcefully into the narrative . The strengths in the movie however , rests on 2 points in my opinion , otherwise it may seem like a typical modern day romance tale . First , a very brief scene involving baseball , and I liked how it was developed to provide that strong punch toward the end . Sometimes in life we get thrown a stinker , often not when we're anticipating it nor given a choice . What do you do ? Catch it , make do what you can , and very quickly , toss a curveball back and move on . You will not be put down you say ? Yes , and similarly that scene where Eriko watches herself in the ad , does provide that little uplifting feeling of hope . The other strength in the movie , is Rena Tanaka's portrayal of Eriko . The pixie-faced actress superbly brought out her frailty , struggles , and naiveness with much aplomb , that you can't help but to root for her , even though you know that her suffering is of her own making , based on a bad decision and choice made . Tokyo Marigold's ending too was quite moving , containing a bittersweet ending , together with a sense of victory , yet with a tinge of that sorry feeling . It allows both camps - those who wishes for her to move on , and those who don't , avenues to interpret the events outside what was in the film , and in that aspect , satisfies whichever direction that floats your boat . But I would like to sit on the fence ( maybe because of personal experience ) , that one knows and can speculate with great accuracy what had happened , look back , reminisce and appreciate that one year , and probably nothing more . In that sense , Tokyo Marigold worked for me , thoroughly .
A Nutshell Review : Once Were Warriors	When the opening credits screamed huge titles in your face , I thought that this was going to be one of those Grindhouse styled pictures with cheesy hilarious dialogues with over the top acting and swear words flying all over . In fact , the first few minutes established all that coupled with a very edgy score , but Grindhouse this is not , instead , it has all the trappings of a solid drama , and deals with very mature adult themes and of family . This is a very different New Zealand that someone from the outside will take to . Gone are the picturesque postcard scenes , and in are the gritty , grimy neighbourhoods where families at the poverty line struggle to make a living . The story , based upon a novel by Alan Duff , centers on the Heke family , who are of Maori descent . And things are rosy at home as Mom Beth ( Rena Owen ) has 5 kids to take care of , in which Boogie ( Taungaroa Emile ) is going to be sentenced in juvenile court , and eldest Nig ( Julian Arahanga ) seeking a home away from home with gangs . The only and possibly sensible one is with Grace ( Mamaengaroa Kerr-Bell ) , who assists her mom in shepherding her youngest siblings from the explosive behavior of father Jake ( Temuera Morrison ) who has a penchant for violence when he has too much to drink . Sounds like a typical family melodrama all set up , and it is , except that this was delivered with such realism that you'll cringe at the sight of unflinching violence . It's hard to sit through it , leaving you seething with rage as the victims find it difficult to leave and make changes to their lives . Once Were Warriors chronicles this struggle , and your emotions go on a roller coaster as you root for various characters to break out of their zone of discomfort , and to challenge the norms in order to stand up for themselves . The first time Jake rages in the movie undoubtedly sets the tone for the rest of the story , because slivers of hope get evaporated by the time you see how the make up artists work on Beth to bring to you the sheer madness . The character of Jake is peculiarly intriguing , as for someone who got laid off and without a job , he's satisfied to just be on welfare , and what more , to spend those money on drink and gambling , though drawing the line on women . After hours late night parties at his home with his " pals " also seem the norm to sooth his ego as being the all round nice guy . And when things don't go his way , the only way he knows how to deal with it , is by his fists , where he takes pride in dispatching trouble makers in bars , unknowing that he too is trouble for his own family . Quite a tragic character really , for his clueless behaviour in not knowing how to take care of his family properly , being constantly disengaged from his wife and children , which naturally awaited for some tragedy to happen . On the other hand , one can only imagine the amount of abuse that wife Beth can put up with , if not only for the sake of the children . It's interesting to see where the leads have gone off to after this 1994 movie . Temuera Morrison looked familiar , and a quick check on IMDb showed that he had portrayed Jango Fett and Commander Cody in the fairly recent Star Wars prequels . In fact , co-lead Rena Owen too had starred in the prequels as well . Director Lee Tamahori doesn't lag behind too , having helmed the James Bond installment Die Another Day , and xXx2 . Once Were Warriors had a sequel as well called What Becomes of The Broken Hearted ? which was also made into a movie , though was less well received . Personally , this is rated by me as a highly recommended movie , and watching a Haka being performed here , definitely deserved its brownie points .
A Nutshell Review : Scoop	Scoop marks Woody Allen's second movie shown locally this year ( the other being Match Point ) , both set in England and both starring his new muse Scarlett Johansson . In what is probably reel influenced by the real , Johansson was recently crowned sexiest woman alive by Esquire magazine , and you wouldn't have expected her to take on the nerdy look of Allen with those glasses and neurotic behaviour . But she did . Transformed from Match Point's seductive femme fatale to Scoop's love struck teenager , Johansson shines as campus journalist Sondra Pransky , who actually finds herself bedding her interview subjects rather than snagging any exclusive scoops . In a twist of fate , while attending a performance by small time magician Sid " Splendini " Waterman ( Woody Allen ) , she meets a spirit of the recently departed world renowned journalist Joe Strombel ( Ian McShane ) , who provides her with a lead to the recent Jack-The-Ripper wannabe Tarot Card murders . Reluctantly teaming up with Splendini as pseudo father-daughter , they try their very best to infiltrate the life of prime suspect Peter Lyman ( Hugh Jackman ) , son of an aristocrat . Hereon , it ups the mystery factor as both Pransky and Waterman search for clues to a whodunnit , with Pransky inevitably finding herself falling in love for real with the charming , gentlemanly Lyman . Scoop has plenty of classical comedic moments , filled with tons of witty liners , so keep your ears closely peeled to the dialogue - they come hard and fast ! Woody Allen probably at his element here with his poking fun at himself . The movie is as accessible , and paced might tighter than Match Point , and it feels a lot more lighter in mood too . Even its perceived darker moments here in certain scenes don't drag , and Death in itself is made fun of too . The best scene , in my opinion , has got to be the introduction of Splendini , with Allen , Johansson and McShane all rolled into the same scene . Hugh Jackman though had a little to do as the aristocrat , probably reprising a similar role he had before in Kate and Leopold . For some reason I've avoided Woody Allen movies in the past . But with Match Point and Scoop convincingly providing me a jolly good time , I'll likely be revisiting his older works in due course . And with that , I thank you for reading this , from the bottom of my heart , with all sincerity and all due respect , you're a credit to your race . . . In one word : Fun !
A Nutshell Review : Elizabethtown	Before I begin , I confess that I am a Cameron Crowe fan , having seen most of his movies , which I enjoyed , and having met and spoken to him during his Vanilla Sky premiere in Singapore back in late 2001 ( with Tom Cruise and Penelope Cruz in attendance as well ) . So you might think that this review is biased , that I'm gonna praise this movie sky high . Fact is , I will , only because it's an enjoyable film , with many fascinating facets to it , and one which made me ponder through the points presented throughout . While most critics ( pah ! what do they know ? ) panned this movie , and I think many here might not like it too ( groupies of Orlando Bloom don't count ) and I'd like to speculate why . It might be because of the many little disjointed subplots that this movie actually contains . There's not really a main theme , but many small ones . No one big idea , but many little ones . But that is Life , isn't it ? So many non-linear events happening around us all the time , some making sense now , some don't , some perhaps later , others none at all . But that in essence is what this movie is all about . It's about the discovery of oneself , about the celebration of life , even in death . It's also about the concept of failure , that it is definitely not the end of the world , that if faced with defeat , to take all 5 minutes to wallow and whine , then move on , because the world is not going to take pity on you . It's about letting go of inhibitions , and living life as it should be lived , as you would like to live it . But Drew Baylor ( Orlando Bloom ) certainly doesn't begin as such . He's a shoe designer whose latest model bombed in the market , and is faced with a fiasco which cost the company close to one billion dollars in losses . His is a life of perceived success , until his world came crashing down and he contemplates ending it . But news about his father's death interrupted his own plans to die , and he's tasked with the responsibility of cremating his father's remains to bring back to his family in Orlando . However , his father's extended family and relatives have plans to bury him , and herein lies his dilemma - how to drive home the point that they should respect his family's wishes , even though his father Mitch was many things to many different people , and they remembered him in their own unique way . Through the interaction with these relatives , he learns more about his father than what he already thought he knew . Similar to In Her Shoes where the character in question rarely or never takes up screen time , we learn so much of a person through dialog , and many eulogies given , some comical of course . Which is similar to other Crowe movies , the injection of wry humor , great music and many quirky characters which add color to the plot . And one such character , which I think most would love to hate , would be Claire Colburn , played by Kirsten Dunst . Here's one character with so much optimism , you'd think it's too good to be true . She contrasts the pessimism in Drew with her positive attitude , and many might think the road trip finale is one that might be stretching credibility . But hey , she's demonstrating the idea of living life with passion , and going after what she wants , never dwelling on the what ifs and of course , never letting the fear of failure get in the way . She brings about a new dimension to what we seen in Drew , with his plans to die cast in stone , and what we see in the many compromises between Drew's extended family . She's Spontaneity , the kind who would light up any party with life and exuberance . The finale too hokey ? Well , I've had my fair share of crazy / weird things done before , and looking at it in positive light , all it boils down to is meticulous planning , passion , and a dash of luck . Which brings me back to Cameron Crowe again . It reminded me of that particular insane night when it all happened . The road trip , though long , provided what I'd like to call a quick tour of the USofA ( it really seemed like it ) , against a background of choice music . Makes me wanna go on one myself too . Particularly poignant to me would be the part about family . Drew regretted not having done certain things with his Dad , like postponing their road trip indefinitely . Woke me up to the notion that with mortality , you should never put off things that you plan to do with family . You'll never know when it'll be too late , for regrets . Much have been said about the two lead's acting , but I'd like to add that I love their portrayals of their respective characters . Bloom and Dunst have great chemistry , which makes their scenes a joy to watch . I thought Susan Sarandon chewed up the screen in her limited screen time as Drew's mom , who initially we thought was going insane when the love of her life passed away , until we realize the immense passion she had for him . Really touching moment , disguised by comedy . While Vanilla Sky had a relationship concept known as f buddies , here we're introduced to being Substitute People . Though it's the first time I'm hearing it , the concept's definitely not new , and I guess many would be able to identify such situations in their lives . And think them through . With so much to offer in a compact 2 hours , Elizabethtown certainly is a complex movie . One which should be enjoyed when you're in a positive state of mind . Definitely a reminder of what our priorities should be , in the hustle and bustle of life .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Come Drink With Me ( 1966 )	Come Drink With Me is touted as arguably the greatest martial arts film , ever . In its day , this is the movie that broke a lot of grounds , thanks to meticulous direction and vision of King Hu . The story is simple though , telling of Golden Swallow's ( Cheng Pei Pei ) quest to rescue her brother , a government official , in a ransom case with a bunch of bandits . While her prowess is formidable , a little help is always appreciated when up against the masses , and little does she know that a beggar of sorts , called the Drunken Cat ( Yueh Hua ) , turns out to be her guardian angel . While the Chinese title is obviously a reference to Yueh Hua's character , this movie is clearly Cheng Pei Pei's breakthrough in the martial arts genre . The martial arts here is distinctively different . For its time , it was a breakthrough , with its moving cameras , violence , splattering of blood , as well as fights done with adequate pauses and breaks , like a Western stand off at times , before lunging at each other . The movement , while fluid , is slow compared to these days , then again , having action done too fast would mean either stunt people taking over , or you can't see a thing . The style in this movie struck me as samurai styled swordplay , even though the weapon our heroine used was a pair of short swords rather than katanas . The weapons used too were real , lending a sense of realism when the combatants clash . There are still some opera influences in the movie , especially when it comes to the music , done with Chinese orchestra , and accentuates the scenes like a big opera . Playing in sync to the action on screen , it's an early base on which films like Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon adopted to great effect . The cinematography is great too , given the many exterior shots in backlots and elaborate sets , featuring classical locales like inns and temples . The introductory scene in the inn will take your breath away , never mind that some cheesy ( for today ) techniques of stop motion and the reversing of film were used . Cheng Pei Pei is a star in the movie , and she has managed to infuse her background in ballet and dance to the martial arts moves for the movie , bringing forth a very beautiful poise when executing her moves . Her eyes too were luminous and have a life of their own , and can stare daggers at her enemies . Yueh Hua though felt more carefree , given his role as a wandering beggar . And while there are hints of romance between their characters , don't hold your breaths on counting them developing it any further . A to-the-point story , and excellent martial arts . This is a definite must watch for all martial arts genre fans . IVL Code 3 DVD Extras : A departure from the other IVL releases I've watched so far , this DVD had a valuable commentary by Cheng Pei Pei herself , and daughter Marsha Yuen , presented by film producer Bey Logan , in English . It's quite hilarious listening to Logan try and identify some of the actors , but always getting them wrong and had to be corrected by Pei Pei , until he knew not to embarrass himself further and allowed Pei Pei to introduce them instead . Marsha however , had little to contribute , except to laugh loudly into the microphone . There are two Come Drink With Me trailers included , one the original which had its written script which you have to read running from right to left , and the quality is pretty degraded . The new remastered one is definitely clearer , and so were the trailers for other movies , some starring Pei Pei herself . You have the usual extras as well , like the few movie stills , one original poster , a one page one paragraph worth of production notes , as well as a short cast and crew biography and filmography . A pity thought that you can note some typos in the DVD menus and subtitles . The real gems of the extras , are the interview clips . The longest interview on the disc is with Cheng Pei Pei ( 18 mins 30s ) done in English , where she compares martial arts movies then and now , shared some production nuggets such as the duration of shooting the fight scenes , on sexuality of those days , her working relationship with King Hu , provided insights into working under Shaw Bros . explained her ease with learning martial arts , and shared on her working experiences with Yueh Hua . Yueh Hua too has an interview included , though it was quite short , clocking at 4 mins 45s . He shares his thoughts on working with King Hu and Cheng Pei Pei , as well as revealing that he had real wine in that wine bottle prop to assist him in getting into character . However , the interview is conducted in Mandarin , with no subtitles provided . I'm surprised at the inclusion of an interview with Marsha Yuan ( daughter of Cheng Pei Pei ) in English , for 6 mins and 40s , as she shares her thoughts on the movie , her realization when growing up that her mom was famous , and the big revelation is that there is going to be a sequel she's gonna star in . Is there ? The last two interviews are with film critic Paul Fonoroff and film producer Bey Logan , as both talk about Cheng Pei Pei and King Hu , clocking at 9 mins 50s , and 4 mins 40s respectively . The former interview is more insightful though , as he shares a little on the history of the rivalry between Shaw and Cathay in their heydays . The restored version in the DVD is pristine , save for one or two scenes in soft focus which seemed a little blur . Audio transfer is great too . The only pity is that it's not in Anamorphic Widescreen .
A Nutshell Review : 40 Year Old Virgin	With a title like that , it takes little imagination to know that this film belongs to the sex comedy genre which has gained popularity ever since American Pie started it all from 1999 . Virgin adopts a similar formula , even from the start , we are introduced to Andy ( the Virgin ) in his suburban home , and his stiff unused woody ( Yes , it's that blatant . Expectations , remember ? ) Andy's the guy who somehow couldn't grow up , with his extremely cool collection of collectible toys and comic books , custom made video game chair and home decor adorned with pop culture posters . His predicament would probably be appreciated by many guys - with a life like that , interest from the opposite sex is hard to come by , and not to mention a disastrous experience which left him scarred . Andy works in an electronic store , which is the setting taking up almost half the entire film . Not that it's bad though , interesting hilarious stuff do happen . And it is his colleagues , upon learning his " secret " , vow to make things happen and present to him various opportunities and tips . Even his female manager subtly propositions to him as a f-buddy , bringing on some laughs as she delivered it multiple times in a deadpan manner . So begins various set pieces like the first pick up in a bar with a drunken babe who drives him to her home , the speed dating segment where he meets a butch wanting to go straight , and another who had a wardrobe malfunction , the pain-inducing chest hair waxing session gone awry , and Beth , the demure bookstore chick , who's more than meets the eye . Eye candy galore though in these scenes , so all the hot blooded males out there wouldn't be complaining at all , akin to the strategy adopted by American Pie by featuring attractive actresses . It works on another level though . With his friends providing weird and sometimes crazy ideas and advice , we are presented the flipside of their own predicament , insecurity , and troubled relationships . This movie seemed to spread the message that sex isn't everything , and while journeying with Andy to his first lay , most can identify with many of the issues and relationship problems presented . And on that note , this film at some times feels like Will Smith's Hitch . Andy , while listening and accommodating his buddies ' advice , instead goes against these well intentions to set his sights on Trish , a woman who works on the opposite side of the street , selling stuff on E-Bay . In this storyline however , it's the usual boy-meets-girl , fall in love , loses girl , gets her back cliché formula . But it's the delivery of both leads Steve Carrell and Catherine Keener that keeps it from being boring . Despite casting relatively unknowns , just as American Pie did , the actors seem to have loads of fun despite the stereotypical roles . This film should gain recognition for Steve Carrell , just as Pie did for Jason Biggs , Some might have remembered Carrell as the funny newsachorman in Bruce Almighty , and I'll be awaiting in glee for him to star in one of my favourite TV series Get Smart , as Maxwell Smart ( somewhat a dead ringer for the late Don Adams I tell ya ) . Surprisingly , you'll hardly feel it's a two hour long film . The pace is quite even , despite the meshing of 2 parallel plot lines following American Pie's and Hitch's . I dare say the Virgin does swallow the Pie , with a more mature and responsible feel to it .
A Nutshell Review : Handsome Suits	Handsome Suits might be Japan's answer to Korea's 200 Pounds Beauty , and given the success of the latter movie which deals with women's vanity in wanting to look good , this one is the equivalent , but centered on men instead , denying the focus on grooming as much as we like . Face it , we're more than likely to turn the blind eye for someone who looks good . Maybe not necessarily drop dead gorgeous , so long as they're pleasing to the eye . The movie plays on the observation of how possessing good looks would open doors and help in getting a leg up in life , like a satire on the sad reality of life that is , but in its simplicity comes a well told story with plenty of pathos to think about , ranging from being true to oneself , and again a constant reminder not to judge a book by its cover . Takuro Ohki ( Muga Tsukaji ) might be the ugliest chef around no thanks to his porky frame , but inside lies a sensitive man who stuck to a long held mantra of his late Ma's Taste at Ma's Price diner . Essentially a good man , he has no luck in love because of his lack of presentable looks , and romance is always far off in his mind . Tsukaji brings about some likability to this character , though I really must defer judgement to the ladies for frank opinions on whether they would date a guy who looks like that on first impressions , coupled with the propensity to stick his finger up his nostril ( for a chef ! ) . Like a fantasy come true , this is pretty much done in Click fashion , with the all-powerful remote control being replaced by an all-powerful suit which looks like a cross between the Michelin Man and the stay-puff marshmallow man . Once worn and vacuumed fit , he becomes instantaneously transformed , voice included , to be as sexy as can be , with women literally swooning at his feet , and his opportunities to get in touch with the opposite sex suddenly increases manifold . As Annin Hikariyama ( Shosuke Tanihara ) , he becomes the hottest sensation in the fashion circuit , and faster than you can say " Let's Handsome " , the coolest model in the business , Raika ( Mayumi Sada ) falls hard effortlessly to his charms . It is easy to identify with Takuro's leading of a double life , one as the ugly chef , and the other as the handsome model on the brink of signing a multi-million dollar management deal . However , he's soon cradled with the mother of all dilemmas , with his ex-waitress Hiroko Hoshino ( Keiko Kitagawa ) rejecting both Takuro as well as Annin , which he cannot fathom why , and then his growing affection for fellow looks-challenged Motoe ( Miyuki Oshima ) . As if leading one simple life is not enough , his honeymoon with his suit once over will bring some major headaches which he must address , sometimes with hilarious results , especially when dealing with the suit's vulnerability to hot water . There are some opportunities for special effects , and these are done simply and to the point . What elevated this movie is its genuine comedy without trying to insult the audience's intelligence , especially when early on in the film he has to juggle with his newly established identity , lapsing constantly into his old self . Those who are keen-eyed will soon begin to see how the surprise of the movie would come as early as from the midway point . But don't go and look for such clues on purpose though , as it'll actually spoil the fun . With a constant and not too sublime reminder on the need to appreciate the little things you do that matter , and the little joys that you can find along the way in life that is important to help keep spirits up . I particularly enjoyed that extended scene where Motoe plays a game with Takuro during their walk home , which serves as a powerful reminder to stop and smell the roses . Handsome Suits will be recommended stuff , should it make its way to Singapore . Don't leave the theatre just yet until after the end credits !
A Nutshell Review : Meet the Robinsons	Disney's recent animated features have been misses , with the likes of Chicken Little and The Wild performing below expectations despite the updated computer generated toons and marketing gimmicks , bringing to mind the age old adage that the story comes first . As far as animated movies go , Pixar's the one to beat , having crisp drawings perform to the tune of a superb story . Meet the Robinsons is not a Pixar movie ( given that the two companies have now merged ) , and I'm pleased to say that Robinsons has indeed remembered to go back to basics , in whipping out a strong , engaging tale for its computer generated animation . The trailers have more or less summarized the story . Lewis is a brilliant kid inventor who meets up with a boy from the future , Wilbur , who enlists Lewis ' help in stopping the evil plot of the Bowler Hat Guy , who intents on coming to the present day to wrong certain rights so that the future can be changed , to his advantage of course . It's a time travel movie , and I dare say , space time continuum aside , that it makes cinematic sense , as well as filling it with loads of imaginative fun , especially with the Robinsons , folks from the future whom Lewis meets in the course of his mission . Though the story developed at a slower than expected pace with a relatively dry introduction , its buildup is measured and it got better as time went on , grabbing your attention hook line and sinker . At times you can guess how the narrative will proceed , and how the expected twists will turn out to be , but it is indeed its delivery of the final act that made it all worthwhile , wrapping up the loose ends with that trademarked fuzzy Disney feeling , that lifts the movie from mediocrity , into an instant contemporary classic . It is not everyday that a movie comes along , and celebrates failure in a non-comedic premise , coupled with reminders of never giving up , and a theme of family , camaraderie and belonging . It looks on the positive side of things even when the situation is bleak , and I'd bet by the time the end rolls around , there'll be a tinge of bittersweetness in its triumph . The story contains great characters in its ensemble , even though some only feature for a limited time and most already seen through promotional material and trailers . And I thought they dampened expectations too , especially that classic scene with the T-rex about its arms - you're constantly expecting that scene to turn up , and when it does , it becomes anti-climatic . Based on a book and filled with great songs , Meet the Robinsons evokes the same spirit as movies like Back to the Future and Frequency , both of which are among my favourites , so it isn't difficult to proclaim that this animated movie is a must watch , even if its voice talents are not contributed from those in the A-list . The screening is preceded by a classic Mickey Mouse short called Boat Builders . A rare opportunity to watch Mickey , Minnie , Donald and Goofy on the big screen , so enter the theatre hall early in order not to miss it !
A Nutshell Review : The Bank Job	If I remember it rightly , the very first time I saw Jason Statham star in a movie , it was in Guy Ritchie's Snatch , and since then he's had his fair share of crime capers ranging from the remake of The Italian Job where he starred as Handsome Rob , to mindless , high octane action movies like The Transporter series where he's the star vehicle ( pardon the pun ) . While these movies can't possible earn him any action awards , you can't deny the fact that this guy's pretty charismatic in his own right , and I've no qualms about watching him play characters on either side of the fence , taking on his opponents in Crank or War , holding his own opposite Jet Li . While we await for the next installment of The Transporter or Crank , or The Brazilian Job , his The Bank Job sure took longer than expected to make its way to our shores , where the DVD should be released later this week . But as always , I'd recommend to watch this bank caper on the big screen . Don't expect plenty of Statham's signature moves when he takes on his opponents here , as he relies pretty much on his wits in order to survive a web of tangled intrigued where a simple open and shut case of a bank heist , turned out to be much larger than his team could digest , involving , check this out - high ranking government officials , the royal family , the British secret service , local neighbourhood cops , local neighbourhood crooked cops , gangsters , brothel owners , a society rebel , and an old flame . Phew ! Based loosely on the Baker Street Llyods Bank robbery in 1971 , Statham stars as Terry Leather , a two-bit lowly crook who's given an opportunity by Martine Love ( Saffron Burrows ) to break into the said bank , given inside information about the bank's security systems , and unknown to Leather , having the heist unofficially sanctioned by people in the right places . The job is simple , to break into the bank vault where the safe deposit boxes are , and make away with everything inside . But of course the real value lies in some incriminating photographs found within the boxes , and I thought this played out like The Inside Job . Only that it doesn't primarily take place from within the bank most of the time . The Bank Job covers a much larger spectrum , of conspiracies and trust issues between the members of the heist , as well as between shady characters who each have their own agenda of self - preservation . With plenty of dirty little secrets hidden snugly inside those safe deposit boxes , their respective owners while having a sense of fear permeate through their bones upon hearing the news , more so want to uncover the culprits , and recover their assets . It tells of the unwanted trouble and attention brought towards the perpetrators , as they realize that their apparently simple job , turns out to be a Pandora's box . If this was enacted based exactly on case files , then you can't help but to chuckle at how sometimes Fate and just plain silly luck would shine upon the players of the game , and enable coincidental circumstances to happen in order to have everything work out in a certain favour . And in either half of the story , from the enactment to the untying of the knotty situation they're stuck in , The Bank Job fulfills in keeping things light , funny , and given the many shenanigans that politicians get themselves into , it just reminds you that some things don't change . Those looking for elaborate plans and probes in heist movies Ocean Eleven style will be disappointed , but if you're looking for something leaning toward spy versus spy stuff and one-upmanship , with a classic underdog story to boot , then The Bank Job should already be in your must-watch list this week !
A Nutshell Review : Bayside Shakedown 2	I've watched Bayside Shakedown 1 a few years back , and enjoyed it thoroughly , so there isn't any reason not to catch the sequel when it's in town . For those who do not know , this show is set in a small Tokyo police precinct , where cops actually perform routine community policing without arms , and the sexy investigative stuff are always handled by the Metropolitan police . This devision of course gives rise to the exploration of politics within the police force , some of which are not subtly put across in the movie - which provokes thought . However , the movie doesn't come across as preachy or heavy , as it's always lightened by the ( sometimes one dimensioned ) characters , the light hearted moments , and camaraderie amongst them . As always , the movie starts off with its regular catchy theme song interspersed with footage of current going-ons . With murder being the main anchor of investigations , other sub-investigations include the biter , the family of pickpockets and a secret lover of the commander of the precinct . Naturally , all the loose ends will be tied neatly when they all come together at one point in the show . Amongst the politics discussed here is on women leadership , in the name of equal opportunity - could we be biased and blinded by policy to allow the inept to lead ? Even though in my opinion , this is a Japanese movie , and the culture at times may be chauvanistic , it does provide some thought provoking moments during the show , or did the producers / writers cop out at the end of it all ? For those who do not understand Japanese , no worries , there are good subtitles , and it doesn't matter if you have watched the first part , or the drama serial - the good looking cast ( male and female ) should be able to sustain you through this enjoyable flick .
A Nutshell Review : Let The Right One In	The cinematic vampires I've seen to date in cinemas recently have usually been the ramped up sexy versions , where it's either black leather on lithe female frames , or dreamy hunks to whom teenage girls would sacrifice their necks to in order to live with their lover boy forever . While the release of Twilight had made a lot of noise in the commercial theatres last year and raking in an obscene amount of money sending fan-girls into a frenzy , one vampire movie has been making its rounds very successfully in the film festival circuit , and the accolades garnered thus far have been nothing less than stellar . Come next week , you too will know why , as Let The Right One In ( LTROI ) gets its deserved commercial release here . LTROI is pared down to the very basics , and that in itself is a refreshing take thanks to John Ajvide Lindqvist's story and Tomas Alfredson's assured direction , both confident that there's absolutely no need for artificial spices to spruce up the film . We have the need for plasma for survival , the human type and not cherry ade from animals and tomatoes . Sunlight kills immediately and fiercely , not to introduce some industrial light and magic moments to glitter with sparkle dust . And their condition forces them to be in isolation , because killing sprees bring unwanted attention , but weakness from dawn to dusk means a caretaker is never far . Find out too what the title means , as I believe it's probably a step boldly taken to define certain consequences . The emotions of their two leads were relied on heavily to bring the narrative forward in what essentially is a very quiet film until feasting time . Eli ( Lina Leandersson ) arrives in a small town with her minder Hakan ( Per Ragnar ) , who provides for a number moments filled with dark humour no thanks to the unfortunate situations he finds himself stuck in while preparing meals . Their neighbour is a timid boy Oskar ( Kare Hedebrant ) , who has school playground politics problems because of the constant taunting from schoolmates , thus coasting through his existence imagining himself fighting back for some respect , but afraid to translate his bravado for real with that knife he carries around . Children are such that , with a certain degree of confidence , putting two-two together , you're likely to see a friendship being struck with little or no prejudice . Coming from lonely backgrounds , both strike an almost immediate friendship , despite Eli being able to come out only at night , and some very obvious hints of her nocturnal prowess . To Oskar , Eli is his first real friend who through love , gives him the courage and encouragement to face up to his demons . It's a tender love story between the two even after Oskar's discovery of the true identity of his best friend . But like best friends , such are secrets between themselves , and nothing in the world is going to change that . It's kinda terrifying knowing that the Oskar in a way condones the killings that Eli commits , and the direction here to show that is unflinching . Given the atmospherically quiet moments , it magnifies every point when the hunter snacks on its prey , with the patches of warm blood staining the pale white face of a child , thanks also to some nifty make up , and special effects where it mattered . The noisy violence is in stark contrast to its more touching moments , especially if one thinks that Hakan's life is a suggestion to what Oskar's would eventually be if he so decides to follow down the same slippery slope . The toning down of pedophilia , as does Eli's sexual ambiguity , allows for this thought to fester . I hate to do a comparison here between a truly great genre film and one that aspired to reach its heights , but I guess since many would be familiar with Twilight , allow me to indulge then why LTROI makes Twilight eat sparkle dust . For starters , the latter is your typical Hollywood blockbuster treatment where everything has to be explicitly shown and in verbatim . LTROI leaves it to the greatest tool you possess - your imaginative mind , and that in itself accentuates the level of horror that goes unseen , and giving that all round creepy feeling to it too . Twilight had a teenage angst romance that was quite childish . LTROI shows how the innocence of love could be miles more mature , with its tender moments here making Bella Swan and Edward Cullen look like adults with bored sex lives . Gone too are ( what I deem now as ) nonsensical pop and rock tunes peppering the aural track , and the clever use of silence ( i . e . knowing when to shut up ) served only to highlight genuine tension and impending doom . Yes LTROI is less showy , but miles more effective in its storytelling craft and technique . For a genuinely satisfying vampire movie , Let The Right One In nails it and deserves being Highly Recommended . P . S . Hollywood now wants to remake this . Now that's a truly terrifying thought !
A Nutshell Review : In the Valley of Elah	I'm not sure why many had loathed Paul Harris ' relatively recent meteoric rise . I had enjoyed most , if not all of his works that I have seen thus far , with his collaboration with Clint Eastwood nabbing Million Dollar Baby a best picture Oscar in 2005 , and his own Crash , which was my movie of the year 2005 , winning the same award in 2006 . I guess with such success , the naysayers will usually be out in full force to make their voices heard , and I thought it's quite sad to have what I deem as steeling work so oft put down because of green eyed monsters . Paul Harris continues his run with co-writing and producing In the Valley of Elah . The valley is said to be the spot where biblical boy David met Goliath and defeated him with a sling shot , where other warriors had fallen before . And we all know what happened to David thereafter , with his growing popularity , and assassination attempt on him as well . In some ways , the movie tells of something in parallel , and alongside the many movies on the Iraq War , with the likes of Lions for Lambs , The Kingdom and Rendition , each focusing on different aspects of the same pie . In Elah , it takes quite a different turn . While inspired by true events , that bit of it comes from the experience and standing orders that the soldiers receive in convoy driving within a warzone . The story itself is set in a time with its players back from their active tour of duty , and is an investigative drama rather than a ra-ra mouthpiece on the morality of war . Tommy Lee Jones and Charlize Theron , both award winning actors in their own right , play the lead roles , and did a great job fleshing out their characters . We haven't seen Tommy Lee Jones on the big screen here for a while , so his presence is a major plus point , catching the thespian in action . He plays Hank Deerfield , an ex-army sergeant who is as hard noses as he is meticulous and disciplined . I guess after years of service in a uniformed group , you can't deny that some of the habits , good and bad , stick to you after discharge . His Hank is one experienced ginger , whose son Michael was discovered AWOL and missing , and he takes it upon himself as any good , responsible parent would , in trying to find out what exactly transpired . In doing so , he would have to rely on his cunning and wit to outsmart the system , and soon realizes that this is no longer the army that he belonged to anymore , with honor and integrity already thrown out of the window . I suppose when one thinks of Charlize Theron , you can't help but remember her as a very blonde and very beautiful model . I won't be surprised that when she wants to be taken seriously in her roles , she either changes her hair style , color , or just tries to make herself fugly ( remember Monster ? ) , in order to fight against preconceived notions that she's just another beautiful face . Like her role in North Country , her Detective Emily Sanders also has to do battle with prejudice , discrimination and the glass ceiling , all these while being a single parent , and assisting Hank in cutting through layers of cover ups , and the determination of red herrings as the cop who requested to be assigned the case . The chemistry between the two , who start off quite coolly , begin to heat up when they realize that their strength combined would prove to be an asset . Moreover , Hank required somebody on the system to be working it , while the other slowly opened up to the fact that she is here to assist a parent in seeking answers . For many scenes , you can't help but to think through - how would a parent react , or what would parents feel , each time they get confronted with certain pain that has befallen their child , who in their eyes will always be small and vulnerable . Parents sometimes do not know what their kid is up to , especially if the latter so decides to keep it under tight wraps , though whatever the case , they are always angels to the eyes of their parents . A parent's love knows no bounds , and you can see how such genuine concern gets exuded from Tommy Lee Jones ' eyes . Partnering him in this aspect is Susan Sarandon in a supporting role as Hank's wife Joan , who has as powerful a scene she shared with Lee Jones in this regard , the stoic courage in the face of the inevitable . If you're one who's game for investigative army dramas like Courage Under Fire ( Denzel Washington and Meg Ryan ) , The General's Daughter ( John Travolta and Madeleine Stowe ) and even Basic ( John Travolta again , and Connie Nielsen ) as I am , then it is without a doubt you will add In the Valley of Elah into your list of mentionables . The slow unravelling of a whodunnit , following the investigator in their seeking of the truth , always bode well with me . And as such , while Haggis this time doesn't overwhelm with too many subplots and focused on the depth of the lead characters so wonderfully fleshed out by Lee Jones and Theron , this one's a winner . Can't wait for Tommy Lee Jones again in the Coen Brother's No Country for Old Men too !
A Nutshell Review : Gangs of New York	I guess the one thing on everyone's mind about the show , just what is so NC about the NC-16 rating that is slapped on this movie currently screening in local theatres Your search is over , here are the answers : 1 . The bloody opening gang fight , which one suspects has been snipped at some points ever so carefully by the censors 2 . There is a nightclub scene which has prostitutes baring their chests 3 . In that scene they smoke opium 4 . Sorry guys , you do not see Ms Diaz exposed ala Halle Berry in NC-16 Swordfish Synopsis OK , now to the movie proper , just 4 words : Daniel Day-Lewis Rocks . If you think that is 3 words , you're just being petty . The first 10 minutes of raw gang power's the best thing in the show , other than that . . . sad to say , there ain't no more of an all out gang war despite the rebuilding of The Dead Rabbits . The plot is choppy at times , probably because the show had to be cut down to a more butt-tolerable length of 169mins . The Good Leo Di Caprio's Amsterdam resurrects The Dead Rabbits . Hmm . . . that good ? : P The Bad Daniel " Bill The Butcher " Day-Lewis ' moustache is bad @ ss ! The Ugly Yup , lotsa ugly extras in the show : P What are you waiting for , move your butt and hit the theatres , now !
A Nutshell Review : At World's End	First things first , you must stay until the end of credits for a scene which truly ends the movie proper , in a bittersweet manner , full of love and fulfilled promises , especially after you've experienced the double , triple , quadruple crossings in Pirates 2 which carried over onto this final chapter . I can't help but compare this trilogy to that of the Wachowski Brother's Matrix movies , only in the way the two sequels are presented in structure . Like Reloaded , Pirates Dead Man's Chest introduced new depth into the established mythos of the standalone original , which made some folks wonder why as they got confused with new characters , new motivations , and plenty of mumbo jumbo . Making things worse , it ended with a cliffhanger of supposed death ( you don't really think they'd kill him off do you ? ) leading directly into the events of the concluding part three . Like Revolutions , Pirates At World's End wastes no time and dives right into the rescue mission to save the ( audience's ) beloved Jack Sparrow ( come to think of it , the original Star Wars trilogy is like that too , but I digress ) , who is stuck in a similar limbo where nothing works . And there are plenty of scenes in this movie which played on Depp's character popularity , which made you wonder just what the point is , if not just to elicit some cheap laughs which sometimes don't work . And with the much touted , expensive sets of Singapore , you wonder what's the point too . During Pirates Dead Man's Chest , there was a teaser of sorts about Singapore being a locale in the Pirates mythos , after being mentioned a number of times in the franchise thus far . And the hype continued with news about the sets , and the casting coup of Chow Yun-Fat as a pirate from Singapore . OK , some historical liberties were taken , but when presented , it really was much ado about nothing . You get to see sets ( artificially done of course ) , not locales , and much of it is at night , so " Singapore " was relegated to what can be deemed like a bad backlot set with poor lighting . Lasting 20 minutes , and given you can't see much , made you yearn for the pirates to hit the high seas , pronto ! As much as Singapore the locale was wasted , Chow was wasted too , having being the last minute merovingian-like character added to the concluding trilogy whose value is only a map , some men , and a junk . But the lucky bastard got to snog Keira Knightley and I'm jealous . Anyway the shady wheelings and dealings continue , between characters , and with the switching of allegiances which you'll come close to losing , almost . It's like a movie version of Survivor , and the best way to survive this is to think through and focus , while you're watching , the individual character motivation and their objective , which brings on some working of the noodle fun . Where we last left our jolly crew , Jack Sparrow ( Johnny Depp ) is gone , and the relationship between Will Turner ( Orlando Bloom ) and Elizabeth Swann ( Keira Knightley ) is on the rocks because the latter was caught snogging Sparrow by the former , Barbossa ( Geoffrey Rush ) is brought back to life , while Davy Jones ( Bill Nighy ) is collaborating with the East India Company , much against his wishes , assisting them in making all pirates see the end of days . Holding the key to save Jack is Chow's Captain Sao Feng of Singapore , as new alliances , betrayals and businesses are formed . Fans of either Bloom or Depp will find their idols absent for significant portions during the movie's first half especially , while the spotlight is set on Knightley , and the introduction of new elements in the Pirate's lore , law and the theme of love . In particular , this movie contrasts quite clearly the love between Turner and Swann , and that of Davy Jones and his , though there are cringeworthy moments in the former's , especially during the climatic battle hinted at in the trailers . Fatherly love too was touched upon briefly for all our 3 main characters , with the highlight on Keith Richard's short appearance as Sparrow senior , which clearly felt like it's added and created just for him . The action bits were great , and though there are adequate fight scenes in between the calm scheming of the high seas , nothing beats the climatic fight at the end where everything comes together and issues get resolved with violence . There are times though that you wonder just how much damage the ships like the Black Pearl and The Flying Dutchman can sustain , with so much splinters and chunks of wood flying , before they sink . And like all climatic fights in ending trilogy chapters , At World's End fell back to formulaic rousing of the troops scene with cheesy dialogue , but perhaps for the better , forgotten about all the others in spite of the scale prepared . The CGI was undeniably effective in making the battle work , with fights on a number of fronts properly done to keep the adrenaline high . Pirates 3 is an intertwined sequel which I think you'll either love or hate depending on how you reacted to Pirates 2 . For me , I'm swashbuckling towards liking it . It's not without flaws , but definitely one of the better two-part movies around - I guess the scriptwriters must had racked their brains with so much going on in so little time , and pulling it off actually . A satisfying conclusion .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Hiroshima ( 1995 )	The closing stages of the Pacific Theatre of WWII are revisited recently by filmmaker Clint Eastwood , in his two movie compendium Flags of Our Fathers , and Letters from Iwo Jima , depicting the Battle of Iwo Jima from both perspectives of the Americans and the Japanese . Hiroshima , a made for TV movie in 1995 for Hallmark Entertainment , does so in one movie , clocking in at a massive 180 minutes . But the running length is fully deserved , as this is probably as detailed one could get without boring the audience . Directed by Roger Spottiswoode and Koreyoshi Kurahara , they each take on their respective country's angle , beginning from April 12th 1945 with Roosevelt's death . Spottiswoode focused on Truman's abrupt taking over the presidency , with a lot of catching up to do with regards to the war . As Vice President , he's kept largely out of the daily workings during Roosevelt's term , and suddenly is thrust into the hot seat with the passing of Roosevelt , making decisions that will affect countless of lives worldwide . Of note is the moral dilemma faced with the Manhattan Project , as well as looking into the inner circle's politicking of racing toward being the 1st nuclear power , and the demonstration of such a might with a public display of a detonation . You'll also see how the pilots train with mock bombs and mock targets during their countless drills just to get it right . On the other hand , Kurahara was focused on the Japanese's lack of understanding and therefore deliberation on surrender , and takes a long hard look at how the Imperial Army dealt with impending invasion by the Allied forces . What's to note here is the portrayal of Emperor Hirohito , as he surveys his land bombed incessantly by B29s . Politics and bickering between politicians and the military take the spotlight here . I'd bet most would find new nuggets of information from this informative dramatization of the events leading up to the detonation of the atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki , like how Kyoto was deliberated over and spared , being the equivalent of a religious city , and a city with monuments worth preserving . I'd learn that the US actually had to call the bluffs , having only 3 bombs at the time , with Little Boy ( Hiroshima's ) made of uranium , and Fat Man ( Nagasaki's ) made of plutonium , and another plutonium one used as a test bomb , because the method of fission is slightly different from uranium's , and had to be tested first to ensure it works . If technical details aren't your cup of tea , then perhaps cultural differences between the two countries , and the bridging of this understanding , might be of interest to you . It's equivalent to today's lack of understanding , and the lack of a well thought out strategy , that we see wars fought and degenerated into the issues faced today . It was interesting to note that prior to WWII , Japan had never lost a war , and therefore , doesn't know what defeat , nor surrender is , and hence , absolutely had no idea going about doing it . It could also be attributed to the Asian " face " value , that death always be a better option compared to a humiliating defeat . Combined brilliantly with stock archive footage , documentary reels and interviews from veterans on both sides . Hiroshima is well worth the 3 hours spent watching it , unraveling itself like a history book . My only gripe was that the ending was abrupt , all over with the announcement of the Japanese surrender . All Region DVD comes with no extras .
A Nutshell Review : The Island	This review is brought to you courtesy of a movieXclusive . com preview session , without which I won't be able to write this so soon . The Island is the latest summer blockbuster offering from director Michael Bay , who brought to you other loud actioners like Bad Boys , The Rock , Armageddon , Con Air and Pearl Harbour . But what's different in The Island is his departure from long time collaborator Jerry Bruckheimer , and an attempt to explore a bit on human morality and ethics . While I won't say that this exploration is thorough , it does invoke some thought when you're watching the film . As you would've already known , this movie is about clones . What if science and technology allows you to live a little longer , replacing body parts which are failing you , a kidney , a lung , from none other than something which has the exact biological make-up as you . This insurance policy , the product , will definitely be clinically compatible , and at your beck and call anytime . Will you proceed with buying into this product , even though it'll mean the birth and subsequent death of some other " you " ? Lincoln Six Echo ( Ewan McGregor ) and Jordan Two Delta ( Scarlett Johansson ) live in a sterile environment , the Facility , where everything from your outfit to the food you consume are meticulously provided for . Survivors from a contaminated " outside world " are brought into the Facility , to live and work in until such time they win the Lottery and get themselves brought to the last paradise on Earth - The Island . Or so they thought . It's fun looking into the Facility , with its minimalistic Zen like decor , and the technology used to monitor and control its inhabitants look straight out out Spielberg's Minority Report . But when Lincoln learns the truth of the setup , he brings along his best pal Jordan in an escape from bounty hunters and the law ( ala The Fugitive ) , while at the same time trying to look up their owners in an urban futuristic looking landscape , to explain this truth . And here's where director Bay is at his element , with loud action , explosions , and a tad of explicit violence . At times , the action pieces brought some sense of deja-vu , from Matrix ( the building - windows - helicopter - smashing scene ) , to Star Wars ( the jet-bikes ) , to an amalgam of elements from his own Bad Boys 2 chase scene ( where they dump bodies at their pursuers ) fusing into mass mayhem similar to Matrix Reloaded's freeway chase . Signature quick-cuts and camera - panning - around - actors - upper - torso - in - slow - mo remind you that this is action done Bay-style . Of course at times , one must suspend your disbelief when loopholes and improbable luck inadvertently play a part in non-stop action . McGregor seemed to have a lot of fun in his role as Lincoln Six Echo ( no worries , the naming convention does get explained ) . You might have thought that his exhilaration at motorcycles was real ( yes , you might also know that he had travelled round the world on his BMW bike ) , and I felt his using of his native Irish accent and American accent to distinguish between his characters was a nice touch . Scarlett Johansson is a beauty to behold . Her Jordan Two Delta has tough as nails spunk , as well as a touch of femininity and vulnerability in her character . The development of her love for Lincoln looked right out of Blue Lagoon , given that the clones have an intelligence equivalent of a 15 year old ( or so the makers thought ) . The supporting characters like Steve Buscemi ( another veteran of Bay's movies , given some of the best hilarious lines in the film - listen out for his cow analogy ) , Djimon Hounsou ( who presented a meaner , leaner , younger version of Samuel L Jackson's mo-fo attitude ) , and main baddie Sean Bean all give commendable performances in an action movie . Don't expect too much character development , but they played their stereotypical role to a T . Product placement's a fun thing to spot , from Puma , to Microsoft's XBox ( I want one of those ! ) , MSN , Calvin Klein ( oh when will Johansson star in a real one ? ) and of course , Nokia ( I was wondering when this would appear ) . Somehow they didn't feel jarring from the scene they're featured in , as some helped facilitate the plot somewhat . While techonology and science may offer us a chance at the elixir of longer life , we must be careful with it and not attempt to play God , in deciding who lives , and who does not . While one may have noble intent , delivery and execution ( pardon the pun ) of that intent matters . Welcome to the Island . Good things do happen .
A Nutshell Review : Millions	Director Danny Boyle is known for his stylish films in Trainspotting and 28 Days Later . While the latter talks about the evil of drugs , Millions talks about the root of all evil - Money . Lots of it . To be exact , close to 300 British pounds . This film is about taking and using money that is not yours , the morality behind that issue , and the exploration if sudden wealth can change a person's attitude . It also looks at spending large amounts of money ( and the difficulty thereof ) in a short span of time , as this film is set against a backdrop of the British Pound no longer being legal tender after 7 days , given the British's decision to use the Eurodollar . Damian Cunningham is a young boy who's missing his mother , who just passed away , and whom we don't get to see until the end of the film ( in a very touching scene ) . He has been living in his own imaginary world since , reading about and dreaming about talking to Saints , asking them if they had met or known about his mom in heaven . Many times , we look at this world through the eyes of this innocent boy , especially when the huge sack of money literally fell onto him , and he thinks that it is a gift from God as compensation for taking his mom . And that's when the story picks up . His brother Anthony suggested they keep quiet about the finding - reason being the government will tax most of it away , and while Anthony decides to ham it up , using the money to buy friends and cronies , Damian developed a want to help the poor - from people in the street , to Mormons ( the punching bag for some major gags in the film , and the hypocrisy of it all ) , to Africans in need of food , water and shelter , and absolute strangers , which is of course , dangerous when the " real owner " of the bag of money come knocking at the door . Given the dilemma of spending , how do you want to do it ? Invest in real estate ? Foreign Exchange ? ( The savvy Anthony came up with those suggestions , and seeing it on screen is hilarious ) . Save it in a bank ? And given your want to help others , how do you do so without endangering yourself , which Damian However , when you realise that the money is not Godsent , but robbed while en route to the incinerator ( one of the many interesting scenes in this film is the heist ) , what do you do next ? Do you continue spending it ? Or give it up ? Do you spend the money as a form of compensation for your house getting ransacked by burglars looking for the loot ? Damian Cunningham is played by Alexander Etel , and you can't help think he's the British's answer to McCauley Culkin at his age . He brings forth pure innocence as Damian , and is absolutely hilarious in his dealings with his imaginary Saints ( complete with halos ) . And the saints go marching on - the highlight of which is St Peter . Listen carefully to the dialogue , as he makes subtle digs into parables and the truth behind a certain miracle - I cracked up at that one . This film isn't complete without the complementary baddie and the uptight community policeman , and also gives the term social engineering a whole new perspective ( even practised by the young ! ) . With Danny Boyle's stylistic editing and beautiful shots of transitions and imaginary situations to complement the social commentary , this could probably be in contention as one of the best films of 2005 .
A Nutshell Review : Tom-Yum-Goong	After having watched Tony Jaa in Ong Bak about a week ago on TV , I was waiting for the day when Tom-Yum-Goog finally made its way here . There was a film in between these two , called The Bodyguard , which wasn't released in the theatres here , so I guess I gotta hit the shops to look for it . My friend has likened the introduction of Tom-Yum-Goong to watching National Geographic , and he's right . It's an idyllic Thai village scene where Kham ( Tony Jaa ) grows up and bonds together with herds of elephants , and it might even looked as if it came right out of Kipling's The Jungle Book . It's a picture of calm before the storm , and the first 10 minutes set the scene , as the elephants will play an important aspect in this movie as it gets elevated into mythical status ( check out the CGI scene , looks like Jackie Chan's The Myth , with its historical fights ) . You'll know right away that this is a Thai movie , with its excellent fusion of Thai elements into the storyline - the elephants , the rivers , the rituals , Buddhism , " Tom-Yum-Goong " , and of course , Muay Thai . With elephants , the natural baddies are first and foremost , the poachers , who kidnap our hero's pets ( wrong move ) . Of course these baddies belong to a larger crime family and syndicate operating out of Sydney , Australia , which deals with drugs , human and animal trafficking , prostitution , all with the blessings of corrupt cops , and led by a transvestite ( yes , you heard me right ) . Tom-Yum-Goong may refer to a shrimp dish in Thailand , but in this movie , it refers to a restaurant which serves as a front for illegal activities . Action fans need not wait too long for Tony Jaa action , as he plunges head on into fights with the Thai gangsters first , in their bungalow hideout . And that's just to whet your appetite for more mayhem ! Bridging the fights from Thailand to Australia is a short boat chase scene that looked right out from Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade , but that's the only weak action sequence in Tom-Yum-Goong . There are plenty of fights in Sydney to keep all action fans happy - like the massive battle with the Aussie streetgangs ( on roller blades and bikes ) in an abandoned warehouse , which also showcased Jaa's agility and acrobatic ability . I thought that somehow the cinematography during this sequence let Jaa down at times , especially when he weaved in and out of the trains , the camera just couldn't keep up , and was positioned at a bad angle . But that aside , it made up for itself in a beautifully filmed , one-motion tracking shot of Jaa making his way through a four-storey restaurant , kicking major rear , without seemingly any cuts ( I said seemingly , as there was a part where water droplets stained the camera , but somehow disappeared abruptly ) . Doom has its gimmicky first-person shooter perspective , this one here has its classic third-person perspective , as if you're controlling Jaa in a coin-operated fight console , taking on the baddies with various swift moves . If you've known by now , I kinda likened Jaa's movies so far to Bruce Lee's ( some see shades of Matrix in this movie ) , and there was another action sequence in which Jaa was up against hordes of gangsters in an enclosed room ( think Lee in the Japanese dojo in Fists of Fury ) , and he floored them all with bone-crushing , limb-breaking kicks and punches . Move aside Steven Seagal , Jaa's doing it faster , and more lethal ! The fights with the huge wrestlers too was a highlight ( ala Lee in Game of Death with Kareem Abdul-Jabbar ) , as was the final fight with the final " boss " . Perhaps my favourite in the movie is the scene at the temple . Water , Fire , and a looming Buddha , Jaa takes on three distinct exponents one-on-one - the hip hop breakdancer , the Chinese wushu sword expert , and the Western wrestler . While this movie has done away with Ong-Bak's repetitive sequences ( yes , we know what Jaa is capable of already ) , the slow-mo in this particular set is pure poetry in motion . It's different from Ong-Bak , in that Jaa , like Lee in Enter The Dragon , gets beaten up and injured . You can inflict pain and injure Jaa , but like Lee , he bounces back with a vengeance , sans shirt too . Jaa has let his action do the talking instead of his acting abilities ( no stunt double , no wire-work , no special effects ) , and I have no qualms with that , given after all , this is an out and out action movie . Petchtai Wongkamlao , who plays Inspector Mark , and has been featured in all of Jaa's movies , returns to add his comedic touch to the film as a Thai-immigrant policeman in Sydney , and fans of Ong Bak will also be pleased that this movie is helmed by the same director Prachya Pinkaew . While Hollywood struggles to find worthy successors to its 80s and 90s action heroes like Stallone , Van Damme , and Schwarzeneggar , Asia has already found one to takeover the mantle from Bruce Lee , Jackie Chan and Jet Li ( as the latter two seemed to have drifted and indicated a preference for dramas ) . He's Thai , and his name is Tony Jaa . You heard it here first , he's gonna be setting the bar for action movies to come . He can only get better , and I'm already a huge fan !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) We Are Marshall ( 2006 )	It's not your usual movie where the hero / team are put together from a bunch of misfits , and learn about camaraderie and teamwork , before charting their successes from the first game to the championship , which they will inevitably take . That's formula , and easily what you'd come to expect . But here , while there are moments of cliché that are inevitable for movies of such nature , like the dealing with tragedy , and the sports elements , what makes this stand out , is how the events are portrayed with some degree of honoring those who had passed on . McG is not one of the most prolific directors of our time , and I know those who actually cringe at his more recognizable work like the Charlie Angels remake movies . But here , he surprises with very muted direction , without all the unnecessary flashes of flamboyance , and puts together a very effective movie that tells the tale , to the point , and without hints of exaggeration . Come to think of it , there's more exasperating moments here than whoops of jubilance , which seemed more like winning the battle , but not the war . With the tragedy , the board has to decide whether to drop the sport altogether from its sporting calendar , or soldier on . Even with the latter , the question is how to build such a team from scratch , and also to deal with the psychological blows the tragedy had inflicted on surviving members of the squad , which without a doubt , is a big demon to fight , given massive guilt which befall on some of them . Enter head coach Jack Lengyel ( Matthew McConaughey ) , who volunteers for this impossible task . Racing against time , he teams with Red Dawson ( Lost's Matthew Fox ) to recruit for a football team , fighting a recruiting war with other more prominent teams , and to entice those who are engaged in other sports to join them , based on specific qualities for vacant positions . Although we have a number of powerful character actors like David Strathairn and Ian McShane in the movie , McConaughey proved that he's not just another pretty face that should be boxed into romantic movies . His Jack Lengyel is physically crafted with that slightly hunched forward physique as if he's always on the go , and comes through as an effective never - say - die - until - the - final - whistle coach , who refuses to give up in the face of adversity , or to throw in the towel midway . Without pedigree credentials , he goes on to prove that he's the right man for the job , convincing everyone that it's not always about winning , which is blasphemy to any sports team out there . And if you take a step back and ponder , this movie junks that formulaic plot development , just like how Lengyel throws out conventional thought and wisdom out of the window . There's a first time for everything , and he's there to try and change the mindset and philosophy of the game and the townsfolk . I thought he nailed it right of what I thought sports is - which first and foremost is about sportsmanship , participation , and giving your best , no matter what the end result is . That seemed to be the spirit missing amongst those looking for instant success , and his fight is to instill this back again . Success will come to those who work hard and are hungry for it , but for a rookie team with makeshift tactics , the point is to show that they will not buckle , and to rise from the ash like a phoenix , finding strength and to pick up the pieces , providing hope and some measure of cheer to its supporters . His coach is to become counsellor as well , but not to a person or a team , but to an entire university town . We Are Marshall makes recommended viewing , and more so for the qualities it exudes .
A Nutshell Review : Goal !	G-G-GOAL ! ! ! I'm so pleased that there's finally a decent movie about soccer , a sport which for the longest time , doesn't seem to get movie producers excited to put out on screen . Having FIFA sanction this film means getting some realism injected , and lending to the authenticity of is the English Premier League club Newcastle United , together with a host of real life soccer superstars like Beckham , Zidane and Raul . While the settings and the game results are real , we follow the fictional story of an illegal Mexican immigrant to Los Angeles , Santiago Munez , street footballer extrodinaire . He gets his lucky break when an ex-Newcastle United player turned scout , Glen Foy , chances upon his games , and invites him over to England for trials . For a guy who's struggling to make ends meet , this presents the perfect opportunity to take a stab at his dream . But tension builds as his father disapproves and is skeptical at both the chance as well as his son's gift to make it big . So he leaves his real dad and family behind , to follow in the footsteps of Foy , his surrogate father in England . The highlight of the movie is not the real football games that the actors get seamlessly transplanted onto , but rather the many trials and tribulations that Munez goes through to earn his rightful place in the squad . His disastrous first appearance almost made him take the first plane home , and I'd bet many in the audience thought it would be a breeze actually for him to make it to first team . Thankfully , the focus was on his sheer determination to overcome the lack of niceties towards newcomer rookies like himself , and the difficulties and temptations which fill his 30 days trial that Foy literally begged for . What you read in the papers of the decadent lifestyle of footballers are all in here - the booze , the parties , the clubbing , the women , even video games ( taking a stab at David James maybe ? ) . Munez gets introduced to these by fellow teammate and cocky new German acquisition Gavin Harris , whose partying lifestyle takes a toll on his game , and becomes the Toon Army's boo-boy . It's fantastic how these two characters contrast each other , and help each other along the way . For non-fans of the beautiful game , fear not , you're not gonna be alienated in this movie , as it doesn't sink into technicalities like the dreaded offside rule . You'll enjoy the movie simply because of the strong human drama weaved into the story , as well as the familiarity of easily identifiable themes of hard work , right ethics , living your dreams and fulfilling your aspirations . Newcastle fans however , will rejoice , as the hallowed grounds of St James Park gets put on the silver screen . For fans without the opportunity of visiting their beloved club , they can gawk at the dressing room , the gym , the dugout , the pitch up close , the city neighbourhood , and " mingle " with fellow fanatical Geordies . Club captain Alan Shearer makes appearances too , as do the many other first team players . But the screen version of the club manager looks uncannily modelled after Arsenal's Arsene Wenger . Fans of Fulham , Chelsea and Liverpool can also see their heroes on screen as well . Santiago Munez is played by a relative newcomer , Mexican actor Kuno Becker , who was put on real soccer training to improve his skills and make him look credible and natural with the ball at his feet . At certain angles with his short crop , he looks like Michael Owen , who now is playing for Newcastle ( he wasn't when this movie was filmed ) . I so dig the soundtrack , especially the guitar piece which opened the movie , and track from the trailer which also made its way into the movie - Kasabian's Club Foot , and various pieces by Brit-band Oasis . A pity it's only out in the stores on October 16 ( based on Amazon ) , but I'll be there to pick it up when it hit the shelves . The ending , even though it wrapped up all the pieces nicely , is a bit abrupt , but I guess it would lead directly into the planned sequels of a trilogy , which involve Real Madrid and the World Cup . This is one movie which can spark someone's interest in soccer , and I'd recommend it to both fans and non-fans alike . Don't let this movie dribble past you !
A Nutshell Review : The Majestic ( 2001 )	It's a pity that this film did not make it to the local cinemas for public screening . I recall watching the trailer in a theatre , and was eagerly anticipating it , but it never came . The major reason was that after being convinced that Jim Carrey could do drama ( The Truman Show preceded this ) , I couldn't wait for The Majestic to open its doors . Good thing I managed to get hold of the DVD at library @ Esplanade . And I wasn't disappointed ! Carrey plays Peter Appleton , a Hollywood screenwriter in the 50s who works for HHS Studios . His story has been filmed and is screening at the theatres , the love of the life is an actress casted in the movie , he has one more work in the pipeline , so everything seemed to be going for him . Until he was accused of being a Communist by Congress , and his entire love and work life turns upside down . While on a drunken stupor , Peter meets with an accident , loses his memory and ends up in the small town of Lawson , California . While he can't remember who he was , the entire town seemed to know him , as Luke Trimble , a teen who had served and died for his country in WWII . And many of the young lads of Lawson did . Harry Trimble ( Martin Landau ) couldn't believe his eyes when he sees Peter , thinking of him as his son , and so did everyone else in Lawson . They throw a hero's welcome for Peter / Luke , and celebrate his bringing of new hope to the sleepy town . Skeptical at first was Luke's childhood sweetheart Adele Stanton ( Laurie Holden ) , but it's not before long she casts her doubts aside and falls for Peter / Luke all over again . The charm of a small town is heavily contrasted with that of Hollwood's , with everyone knowing everyone else in the former , to the coldness and business like manner of the latter . Everyone in Lawson experiences positive energy given Peter / Luke's presence , and Harry decides to refurbish and reopen The Majestic , the town's cinema , where he and Luke lives in the apartment above . Perhaps it is this sequence of restoration running in parallel with the rekindling romance between Peter / Luke and Adele that is my favourite in this movie . But like a fairy tale , all good things must come to an end , and Peter / Luke eventually rediscovered who he was when he chanced upon his own movie being screened at The Majestic . Soon enough , his old life catches up to him , and he's left to choose to fight the fight and stand up for what he believes in , or throw in the towel and his integrity along with it . It's kinda interesting to have real events , like WWII and the anti-communist movement in Hollywood frame the background of what essentially is a love story , and a story of discovering oneself . And to that , Carrey did no wrong . While Truman Show had shades of some comedy ( probably as a cushion to the transition ) , The Majestic is all serious drama and romance , and credit to Carrey for successfully pulling it off . While Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind had been my movie of the year 2004 , I seriously think that The Majestic could have been a contender of mine for 2001 . The number of cameo voices in this movie is astounding too , from Matt Damon to Garry Marshall , Sydney Pollack and Rob Reiner too . So do yourself a favour , especially if you're not a Carrey fan . Your impression of him might change after you've seen him in this movie . It's filled with many touching moments in this 2 hr movie , and brings back the splendour of a time where movies were a grand escape from the mundaneness of life .
A Nutshell Review : Superbad	Superbad is Supergood ! Many have been lauding high accolades on this teen comedy to be the best thing since American Pie , and guess what , it's true ! Before you roll your eyes at yet another teenage and / or sex comedy , with desperate nerds hatching diabolical plans to get laid , Superbad comes across as a breath of fresh air really , given that it has a cast of unknowns , thus free of any expectations to deliver , which thankfully it does . What it doesn't have in raunchy sex scenes , it more than makes up for with its trash talking , especially from loud mouthed Seth ( Jonah Hill ) , who has possibly the best lines in the movie , though coming close to a scene stealer is Christopher Mintz-Plasse's Foggell aka McLovin with his uber-nerdish demeanour . Together with Evan ( Michael Cera ) , the trio play best friends who , being nerds , have only one another to hang out with , until they get themselves invited to a party only through providing the false hope that they can deliver the booze . And the trio branches off into two story arcs before converging for the finale , when Seth and Evan left Fogell to fend for himself when the latter goes for the jugular at a booze shop . It's difficult to judge which of the two arcs was funnier , though I'd go for Fogell / McLovin's as it had the inclusion of two zany beat cops played by Bill Hader and Seth Rogen ( from Knocked Up ) , and it has some of the most insane scenes with the antics that these two cops can conjure . Seth and Evan's storyline however centered more on the dramatic aspects of two friends facing the prospect of separation after graduation , and leaned extremely close to homo-eroticism at certain points . But I digress , it did have a definite hilarious scene in a party they gatecrash , which involves , what else , bodily fluids in the most unexpected of manners . But it's not as vulgar as you think it is , save for gratuitous pictures of the penis in all shapes , sizes , forms , with a limit only the imagination can put a finger ( heh ) to . It's akin to oral sex - that is , the extremely rapid fire use of the F-word - with attempts at actual horizontal action constantly doused with cold water . The gems are in the dialogue and in both Jonah Hill's and Christopher Mintz-Plasse's fleshing of their characters . To top it off , it actually had quite a coherent story , and an ending which you can read either way , and it'll still work . Fused with plenty of physical humour , crass dialogue and plenty of rude pictures ( stay while the credits roll ) , Superbad will definitely bring out the guffaws , one way or another . Oh , and watch out for that super-retro opening credits too !
A Nutshell Review : Flushed Away	Hugh Jackman is everywhere these days , from reprising his iconic Wolverine role in summer blockbuster X3 , to starring twice alongside Scarlett Johansson in Woody Allen's Scoop and Christopher Nolan's The Prestige , and now , just lending his voice to a lead character in the animated film Flushed Away , co-starring his summer blockbuster star Sir Ian McKellen . Soon to come will be Darren Aronofsky's The Fountain . Whew ! There seems to be no stopping this Hollywood flavour of the month ! Despite this animated movie being yet another one of many based on talking animals , Flushed Away doesn't try too hard to be funny by steamrolling pop culture into the story . It just is funny with its deft touches , be it dialogue , slapstick , or various sight gags . Although it's set primarily in the sewers , it's beautiful chaos , with loads of little details all over that you'll probably need to watch it twice over to appreciate all the effort put in to create the computerized graphical sets . At first glance , you might think you're watching a Wallace and Gromit animated show . Yes , this is produced by the same studio , Aardman Animations , in association with Dreamworks , and it is no wonder that the animation , although computer generated , maintained a very clay like look and feel , as well as character designs bearing similar resemblance in style to W & G . The story is simple enough , yet adequately satisfying by the time the end credits roll . As the trailer suggested , Aristocratic rat pet Roddy from Kensington ( Hugh Jackman ) thought he just had the whole classy apartment to himself , when an unexpected guest Sid ( Shane Richie ) from the sewers gatecrashes into his abode , and ejects him through the " jacuzzi " . All these in less than 10 minutes . So begins a mad journey in an unknown sewer world which replicated the modern London City above it with junk , where he has to figure out friend from foe , and find his way back to where he belongs . The themes of family and friends do not come on too strongly , instead the story preferred to let the character interactions bring forth the messages . Supporting or interfering in his quest are characters like Rita ( Kate Winslet ) , The Toad ( Ian McKellen ) , French Le Frog ( Jean Reno ) , and rat minions Whitey ( Bill Nighy ) and Spike ( Andy Serkis ) . It's quite commendable that in its less than 90 minutes runtime , it allowed for quite a bit of set action pieces to develop , along with almost laugh-a-minute lines of dialogue , a good mix of songs ( Hugh sings ! ) and ooh , a diabolical plot . But what perhaps is the show stealer , are the sewer slugs . Ever popping up and performing at the right time , I'm sure they are crowd favourites despite their less than pleasant looking exterior . I wonder if they do sell the soft toy version , as it should be quite hilarious . If too many animated flicks left this year has left you jaded with the genre , Flushed Away just flushes away the competition . Worth checking out on the big screen !
A Nutshell Review : Spanglish	I admire filmmakers who manage to explore powerful relationships and character development in a tight two hours , and Spanglish falls into this category perfectly . As the name goes , " Spanglish " is a combination of two words - Spanish and English , and is one of the major themes covered in this film , which is the clash of cultures , and the fear of dilution of cultural values . Paz Vega plays Mexican ( illegal ) immigrant housekeeper Flor , to an All American family , Mr and Mrs Clasky , played by Adam Sandler and Tea Leoni . They have 2 children Bernice and Georgie , and live with Tea's mother in a rich suburb . All seems well at first , but cracks start to appear as the story develops , as Paz discovers during the course of her work . The father is self deprecating as he is easy going , the mother is neurotic most times and imposes her wishes on the children ( especially the chubby daughter , whom she thinks must lose weight ) , the daughter upset with her mum for that expectation of her , a son who sings his grandmother's jazz oldies , and an alcoholic grandmother . A large part of the narrative takes place during the summer home , with major character development and relationships take over as the center-stage in this film . It is natural that the interactions between the characters develop from what it was in the beginning , to what it is at the end . Some turn for the better , while others just couldn't be . The importance of family and family values are explored . I will attempt to dissect the major relationships : John and Deborah Clasky : As husband and wife , it seems that their relationship isn't that good to begin with . With his easy going nature , John tends to give in to Deborah on a lot of things . Deborah expects her husband to not be the " good guy " to the kids , but to be in agreement with her on issues she deems as important and in her opinion , correct for the kids . Their relationship gets put to the test when one of the commits adultery , while the other is unwittingly being tempted into his own . John and Flor : As employer employee , they develop mutual respect for one another when they realize that they share similar values . To communicate with John , she takes up self-study English lessons , and their friendship progressed to mutual liking . They share the same parental anxiety and have frequent honest conversation expressing their thoughts . However , they develop feelings for each other , and find difficulty on where to draw the line between their ever increasing desire to be close . When the line is crossed , do you call it quits because it's the correct thing to do ? The last 30 minutes of the film is tinged with sweetness from this blossoming romance which couldn't develop further by virtue of principles . You are left wondering , what if ? Deborah and Cristina , Flor's daughter : When Deborah entices and unwittingly seduces Cristina into the all American lifestyle , so much so as even lying to her mum . Deborah is taken to Cristina because she is what her daughter could probably never be - smart , thin and beautiful . Cristina , on the other hand , enjoys Deboarh's company and attention because , hey , it's the American Dream , no ? Flor and Cristina : The movie is narrated by Cristina , from the time when she was little and her father walks out of the home , the hardships that mother and daughter endured through their journey to the USA , and her understanding of her mother's hardship with work to bring her up singlehandedly . Flor is understandably protective of her daughter's wellbeing , and especially in teacher her correct values and her heritage . She becomes jealous when Deborah , in her eyes , start to become more important to her daughter , and sometimes envious of the material wealth that Deborah showers on Cristina that Flor can never ever provide for . Flor fears that her child will be " hijacked " by Deborah . Deborah and her daughter Bernice : Her daughter at times resents the attention that her mum is giving Cristina , as she knows that she could never be thin as expected by mum . She has fears comparisons . Bernice and Flor : Flor starts off as work being strictly work , and no intervention into the family affairs . But she felt compelled to help when Bernice feels upset when Deborah subconsciously puts her down , most of the time subtle digs at her weight . Flor becomes Bernice's confidante in that sense , and John points out to her the hypocritical ways in which she disallows Deborah to treat her own daughter Cristina in similar ways . That scene between John , Flor and Cristina is comedic at times , but powerful nonetheless . Other relationships too long for this review to cover , and also they are quite minor , but at the end of the show , most relationships stay intact because blood runs thicker than water . The main casts excelled in their performance , but I like to single out Adam Sandler . He has demonstrated that he is capable and comfortable doing drama , instead of the madcap comedic characters we associate him with . I hope he does films of different genres to highlight his capability as a serious actor . Also catching my attention in a cameo is Sideways ' Thomas Haden Church . This is a touching drama with an ending that some might deem as heart-wrenching , but I highly recommend this film .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) One Day in September ( 1999 )	With the word and controversy out on Steven Spielberg's Munich , instead of settling for a Hollywood drama of the terrorist event that faithful day of the Olympics , you might want to learn more from this Oscar winning documentary . This documentary uses real footage throughout , with archived news reels , pictures , photos ( of the dead , shot , burnt , otherwise ) , and interviews with family members . But their real coup would be to have interviewed the one and only surviving terrorist who partook in the horror against the spirit of the Olympics . It also provides those born after 1972 , or too young to remember , a look at the events surrounding that day - from the Olympic organizers who are too arrogant to suspend the games , the indifference of the athletes in the Olympic Village , the lack of adequate security ( as compared to today ) , to the politics behind the entire affairs . Perhaps what will rile you are the West German's botched attempt to rescue the hostages . They were surprisingly ill-prepared , deploying untrained teams , lack of proper equipment , and had to recall countless of attempts , before the final embarrassment at the airport , which exposed their severe weakness at handling terrorist incidents . All the hostages were killed in the confrontation , when the terrorists threw hand grenades and emptied bullets into the helicopters they were in . It's only after this that the Germans formed their anti-terror squad , the GSG9 ( Counter-strike players will be familiar with this term ) . To make matters worse , there was a cover up and collusion between the Germans and the terrorists when the latter apparently hijacked a Lufthansa flight ( with only 12 passengers on board , and no women and children ) , and the former handed over the 3 surviving terrorists of the Munich incident in exchange for safe passage of the flight . Which is where Spielberg's movie comes in , following squads of Mossad agents hunting down and assassinating those 3 ( 1 managed to survive countless attempts on his life ) , together with others who are implicated or involved in the planning of the Munich operation . This documentary provides an excellent and compelling background , preparing you for the Munich movie coming soon . Watch this . Code 1 DVD features a relatively barebones version , containing the usual scene selections , subtitles and bonus trailers . But the documentary itself is worth it .
A Nutshell Review : Brokeback Mountain	Here's my challenge : Watch Casanova and Jarhead ( both now showing in local theaters ) before watching Brokeback Mountain , to appreciate and to keep fresh in your mind , the acting range of both Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal . One plays a king of lovemaking , while the other plays an army grunt , in which both are alpha-males roles . Then when you watch Brokeback Mountain , you'll probably be wide-eyed at how these two have a go at each other . Based upon the 1997 short story by Edna Anne Proulx , you must have your head stuck in mud if you're not aware this movie is about two cowboy shepherds who share a relationship up in the mountains of Brokeback . Set in 1963 , we see Ennis Del Mar ( Ledger ) and Jack Twist ( Gyllenhaal ) team up in their job to shepherd sheep to graze , and having strict orders to be separate most times to take care of their flock . But being together alone in the mountains , sharing their lives with each other , brings them too close , and soon , they share a forbidden illicit relationship ( hey , they're supposed to be macho cowboys , and it's the 60s of free love and Vietnam looming ) that transcends the usual boundaries of male bonding . It's like a summer love , and after an hour into the film , we explore how this love affect them as they try to ease themselves back to normalcy . Except that things are never going to be normal anymore . While they establish families - Del Mar with his be-throed Alma ( Michelle Williams ) , and Twist with rich Lureen Newsome ( Anne Hathaway in another role which she shows off her assets ) , they cannot forget their throes of passion they had sparked back in summer of 63 . Before long , they get together again to reignite their passion for each other and continue over a period of 20 years . One thing's for sure , the story will still play out decently if you substitute gay love with heterosexual roles , like the countless of movies on cheating spouses , but there'll be a very distinct lack of punch . You'll notice that the male couples share similar trials and tribulations of any relationship - the love , passion , how much one party is willing to give the other , and how much the other will reciprocate , and unfulfilled dreams . What gives this movie the edge is how the characters are compelled to look for each other for solace , and the deceit and lies they have to go through in order to be together . It's a movie that's paced slowly , but gives opportunity for the audience to admire the postcard perfect ( CGI-enhanced ) landscape of the mountains and plains , to study the expressions of the characters , to listen and ponder upon the dialog . Lee Ang had made Chinese Wu-Xia movies sexy , and it's no wonder that he has also managed to add a touch of sensuality that permeates throughout Brokeback . The hauntingly beautiful soundtrack helps too in keeping the mood and emotions in check , serving to add to the narrative in periods of silenced dialog . Perhaps something which I thought was pretty neat , was the idea brought forward from Kinsey , that there is a degree of homosexuality in all of us , and it depends on how gay you are , or have the courage , to come out of the closet . What's interesting is when you think about whether the notion of gayness stems from nature , or nurture . If you'd seen the movie , you'll know what I'm talking about , and how passion can consume someone , that it takes over all sensibility , and about the propensity of risk you're willing to take . Heath Ledger had a pretty busy 2005 , with diverse roles in Brothers Grimm , Lords of Dogtown , Casanova and this . I've seen all of them , and while I disliked Grimm , I thought his roles in 2005 should be credited with an Oscar win for this . Jake Gyllenhaal too plays Twist with a touch of machoness , and yet is able to slip back into needy whining gentleness with a flick of a switch . Michelle Williams ' role , while small , is accentuated by the particular one scene in which she discover the truth . It is powerful - nothing much said , but everything said through the eyes . Perhaps the weakness link is Hathaway with her megawatt smile and bimbotic blonde looks , as the clueless wife of Twist caught in between some major family squabbles . Homophobes will probably give this movie a miss , but to generally brand this as a gay movie will be missing the point . I'd recommend it to everyone I know to watch this with an open mind . It's an out-and-out dramatic story on relationships , and it's classic storytelling at its best , with excellent acting and strong direction , cinematography , heck , this movie deserves its 8 Academy nominations , so let's see it take home some honors ( I'm not sticking my neck out just yet , until I watch all the other contenders ) . P . S . Yes , this movie is shown here uncut . If you're not celebrating this movie , at least celebrate the fact that we can get to watch it here as it is intended to be .
A Nutshell Review : Mad Detective	Mad Detective had been touted as the long awaited re-team of Johnny To and Wai Ka Fai , who together have made Running on Karma back in 2003 . The return of Lau Ching Wan to a To-Wai movie ( since My Left Eye Sees Ghosts ) is also more than welcome , and Mad Detective to me lived up to its hype , despite having certain obvious recycled elements from To's earlier films . But this doesn't mean that the movie felt familiar . Sure , the iconic elements of a To movie were all there , including the saga of the missing police handgun , and the oh-so-stylish Mexican stand-offs ( that we've seen in recent To movies in Exiled and Triangle ) and the inevitable resolution , though how this one panned out , deserves the loudest of applause for its edge - of - your - seat - who - comes - out - unscathed revelation . And the end result is both satisfying , for a movie that had engaged through all its minutes , and yet frustrating , though the good thing was that there isn't any cop-out edits just to satisfy censors or sooth faux morals . Mad Detective tells the story of Bun ( Lau ) , who is termed as the title says because of his extremely unorthodox methods to solve crime - he re-enacts them at the very venues they are committed , getting into the minds of the criminals , and through this manner , able to identify who the perpetrator is . Needless to say his crime solving rate is high and he beocomes a legend , until a crazed moment saw him cut off his right ear to present to a departing boss , and with that , an early discharge letter from the Force . The story fast forwards 5 years later , with detective Ho ( Andy On ) investigating a case of a missing cop and his gun , which was found to be used in a series of armed robberies . While suspicion is strong on the partner Chi-wai ( Lam Ka Tung ) , there is absolutely no shred of evidence linking him to the crime . In his desperation , Ho turns to Bun , very much against protocol , and enlists his help in solving the case . That's basically it , as we see in more detail what Bun's abilities are in depth . He's part profiler , part sage , and to many , all insanity with his constant talking to himself , and banged up attire sans socks . What I thought made it a close to perfect thriller , was that it constantly kept you guessing whether Bun is indeed what the title is , if it had taken a leaf out of Oxide Pang's creation of the Detective with some supernatural moments , of if it was solely a disorder of the mind . If it shows you compelling evidence that you deem is a smoking gun , in no time are you presented with doubts that will cloud your judgement . You're given a glimpse of how the method in the madness works , and more often than not , find yourself second-guessing all the time , just like how Ho does . And to that effect , I would warrant a guess that some in the audience will be left perplexed and confused , but my advice is not to give up on it . There are many wonderful moments especially when Bun's ability is fleshed out for the audience to see , and as such provided plenty of cameo appearances like Lam Suet and Cheung Siu Fai , playing personalities that were personifications of an inner man's thoughts , desires and fears . A pity though that not all personalities shown were provided screen time to do something more . A cautionary tale too about not judging a book by its cover , as even uncanny abilities to read a person might not be able to sniff out something that's regressive and well concealed , the true intentions of anyone . Lau Ching Wan took a long hiatus before returning to the big screens here ( since The Shopaholics , and the lovely My Name is Fame only made it straight to disc ) , and this comeback is nothing short of majestic in having him in his element , doing almost a one - man show if you will . You laugh at his antics , cry at his predicament in being so dogged in his persistence , admire his unorthodox methods and philosophy approaching investigations ( to use emotions ) , yet cry along in pity when you suspect he's slowly degenerating into madness . Lau has charisma enough to make you empathize with his Bun , into a character you root for , despite his obvious difference . Andy On holds his own as the greenhorn investigator well enough in scenes opposite Lau , while Lam Ka Tung is just plain menacing as the accused , expressing his frustration in being the prime suspect , being both the cat and the mouse in the hunt for the truth . What I admire about the movie , is how a simple idea can be branched into something complex , but yet within grasp , so hats off to the writing-directing team of To and Wai Ka Fai . In essence , this is a story that is told with its cards close to its chest , providing great balance in letting the multiple cats out of the bag at the right time . Simply superb !
A Nutshell Review : The Count of Monte Cristo	Alexandre Dumas is probably more famous for his The Three Muskateers , and in the last decade , that movie has been remade in its latest incantation starring Charlie Sheen , Oliver Platt and Kiefer Sutherland in the title roles , with Chris O'Donnell as D'artagnan . Hollywood followed that up with The Man in the Iron Mask , with strong character actors like Jeremy Irons , Gabriel Byrne , John Malkovich , Gerard Depardieu flanking Leonardo DiCaprio as King Louis XIV / Philippe . Adapting from yet another Dumas story , The Count of Monte Cristo continues the tradition of a strong cast in the likes of Jim Caviezel and Guy Pearce in lead roles , with Michael Wincott and Richard Harris in bit roles . Set in the era of Napoleon's exile from France , this movie tells the story of good friends Edmond Dantes ( Caviezel ) and Fernand Mondego ( Pearce ) . The former is an ordinary lad with no status and of simple mind , but has incredible luck shining upon him , while the latter is the son of a Count , and harbours a great envy for his friend . And the worst enemy would always be your best friend , so the saying goes , as Mondego plots with fellow collaborators and frames Dantes for treason , and gets him imprisoned on an island , and makes Dantes ' fiancé his wife . For 13 years , Dantes becomes disillusion while whipped on the anniversary of his imprisonment ( yes , even before his Passion of the Christ role ) , but chance would have that he befriends a fellow prisoner , a priest who teaches him how to read , write , fight , fence , and various subjects of the world , for the return favour of helping him dig a tunnel to escape . A miraculous escape opportunity presented itself , and the priest reveals to Dante the map of secret treasure on the island of Monte Cristo . Naturally , everything has changed since the last he stepped foot on Marseille , and Dantes plots revenge , to take away everything from his enemies , like what they did to him . Hence , the Count of Monte Cristo is born , and so begins the meticulous execution of his plan . Weaved into the plot is the love story between Dantes and Mercedes ( Dagmara Dominczyk ) , with a now familiar revelation that countless other movies and books have adapted from . If you've read Dumas ' classic , you would already know the details of the plot . But what delivers here is the excellent acting , and beautiful sets . Definitely a must watch . My only regret was not being able to watch it in the local theatres when it was released , because of its short run . A real pity . Code 1 DVD Extras : Audio commentary by the director , 4 deleted scenes , and plenty of making-of featurettes .
A Nutshell Review : Saw II	I'm such a fan of the original - I like blood and gore , and Saw had one of the more intriguing and sick stories around , which saw the introduction of an original villain in recent memory , Jigsaw . What worked in the first film was the strange premise of 2 seemingly unrelated characters being put in a life and death situation , forced to compromise or die together . Also , the twist at the end was oh-so-nicely done , that it just begs for a sequel to be made . But I was initially skeptical at how a sequel could top the original Saw . Sure , Jigsaw returns , but are we expecting more of his sick games to beef up the sequel , leading it predictably to more of the same ? Surprisingly , it doesn't . Now , you have a group of 8 persons stuck in an unknown booby-trapped building in which they have to escape from . Needless to say , Jigsaw has the entire plan rigged right from the beginning , except that the audience and the players don't know how , or why . It's reasonable to say that you'll be expecting characters to die one-by-one , in bloody manner ( so promised the tagline ) befitting the original . While Jigsaw was mostly heard and not seen in the first movie , here , he's seen and heard in full glory . Donnie Wahlberg plays detective Eric Matthews , who leads his partner Kerry ( Dina Meyer ) and a group of SWAT to take down Jigsaw . Playing a psychological game with Eric , Jigsaw taunts him while explaining to the audience a little bit of his own background , which tied to elements from Saw . Fans of the original will squeal with delight when these tiebacks , settings and even a character make an appearance in the sequel . It links the two movies together very nicely , and I wonder why the local distributors didn't have a back to back screening this time , like what they did for Kill Bill . Alas , the version shown here , despite its NC-16 rating , is a watered down version . Obtaining a decent box office returns would have ruled out the M18 or R21 cut . However , don't let this minor nitty gritty spoil your fun . At times , this movie hums along and you find predictable elements ( at least I thought it was under threat of becoming a so-so mediocre sequel ) , but the last 10 minutes will leave you at the edge of your seat , and deliver when you least expected it , applying a signature that says " Yes , this is a Saw movie " . Another sequel , if there is any , will be in my list of must-watch .
A Nutshell Review : Slam	I guess in movies with sports themes , it is never really much about the goal and the destination , but rather the journey the characters take in finding strengths amongst themselves , shore up weaknesses and collectively present and mount a challenge , that makes it compelling viewing . And it's little surprise that Slam fits into this mould and what resulted is a thoroughly enjoyable film on schoolyard pride , camaraderie and 3 on 3 basketball . It is almost a no brainer to want to compare Slam with the other recent basketball movie effort from Asia , Kung Fu Dunk . While the target audience might be different with the latter appealing more to fans of Jay Chou , Slam has a more universal appeal and easily identifiable themes that don't pretend to be anything more than they are . There are many aspects in Slam that makes it a far more superior basketball / sports themed movie , and I'd probably incur the wrath of many fans if I were to state that the music here by Machi Entertainment outscores Jay Chou's rap on tofu ( Swordsman Chou by the way ) from the 3 point line ( check out " Nothing is Impossible " to keep that adrenaline pumping , from the official website ) . The relationships between the characters here also felt more down to earth , probably without the " star appeal " factor to take the attention away from the collective , with the relatively new protagonists given almost equal opportunity in a sport that emphasizes on teamwork , rather than the sole fixation in executing a particular move in the various permutations possible . In that respect , the moves here were sans Kung Fu and wire work stunts , keeping it very much grounded to reality , and of course , believable , while at the same time , entertaining with nifty executions . However , those who cannot tolerate MTV-styled quick edits might find something to gripe about here , but I thought those hand-held shots employed fit the premise of the game , not the standard court games that you watch on television , but the quicker in pace 3 on 3 street game , giving it a feeling of raw energy somehow , especially coming from a team of youthful exuberance . At its core , Slam contains a simple losers versus bullies storyline , and one between the haves and the have-nots . Mouth ( Lin Xiao Fan ) is your typical introverted kid who's having major troubles with his non performance in his schoolwork , while nursing a high school crush on the prettiest ( and smartest too ) girl in school Xiao Xiao ( Zhao Wenqi ) . But his passion for the basketball game sees him train by walking around with weights attached to his legs , and shooting hoops with good friend Monkey ( Zhang Yi Shan ) , whose cousin Jason ( Andrew Chou aka Machi Di Di from the Taiwanese hip hop group Machi ) completes the trio . And as you may have it , the one-dimensional bullies , led by Li Wei ( Wang Wei ) of " The Hawks " , take every opportunity to stir trouble with our motley gang , inside and out of the basketball court . Sound quite familiar ? Yes it does , and in any self-respecting sports movie , there's a well made training montage to inspirational , beat-pumping music too . But what shines here are the earnest portrayals , and not for one minute I felt that the actors were trying too hard to act their roles , but were quite natural in fleshing out their respective characters , so much so that they endear and are likable enough for you to root for them all the way , and not only when the time came for it , like the big games . Needless to say with teenagers in the brew , parents too come into the picture , and there were some subtle reminders on developing the potential of a child , and that need not necessarily come from books alone . And furthermore , to do so by teaching them to combat self-doubt . Succinctly put , Slam is a simple to follow story with excellent delivery that worked remarkably . It took a while for the main action to come to the foreground , but when it did , for casual / non-basketball players like myself , you'll probably find yourself wide-eyed at the level of energy exuded , and wanting to shoot some hoops with friends too , replicating the moves being an optional . Should Goal be used as an epitome of a good football movie , then Slam will be in my list as one for a good street basketball film . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Valkyrie	Since it's based on a true event , unless you have your head buried in the sand , you'll know the outcome , or at least the end result , of Operation Valkyrie , an ambitious plan put into the hands of Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg ( Tom Cruise ) together with his entourage of high ranking officers and political officials in a coup-de-tat to bring down the Fuhrer , disrupt his chain of command , and assume control of Berlin , thanks to quite a contingency strategy that Hitler had . If it had been successful , history would turn out rather different , but we are where we are now . So what makes it still a compelling story to sit through ? The pace at which Bryan Singer puts this film through that's what , at breakneck speed rarely slowing down to take a breather . And that's quite the winning formula actually , keeping things tight and moving with clockwork military precision . For those who may want to take this as a loose reference for research into unsuccessful attempts at Adolf Hitler's life ( this one being the last before the Allies came knocking ) , it compacted in two hours the entire recruitment to execution stage , where treason is the order of the day , not knowing who to trust , and to what degree . As explained , with any military operation , nothing goes according to plan . Recruiting is a dangerous exercise , because in a regime where everyone swears an oath of loyalty to one person , it perhaps provided the magical formula on defining loyalties , which is strangely curious yet effective . Decisions on who to believe and who to side , especially when facts become muddled and with the lack of information , it left many wondering and questioning their personal beliefs , whether to stick to the status quo , or jump on the bandwagon in the hopes of effecting change , while putting your neck on the chopping block . Providence too played a huge role in the film , with changing of key locations and the ease with which certain key elements of the plan get arranged and completed . However , any plans which involve large underground group members each having their own say , or if pass the point of no return they waiver and are not resolute in seeing things through , it puts everything up for grabs . Improvisation without hesitation in execution , especially without thorough , objective and robust planning devoid of emotion , becomes an Achilles heel , with wanting to strike fast an overbearing condition in the plan proving to add complexity for everyone . As with the adage of too many cooks spoiling the broth , plans that rely on inch perfect precision execution , given too many variables on the table , are formulas for disaster . And what's this about the accent you say ? Kate Winslet did a German-accented character to perfection in The Reader , and hence the awards she garnered for that . Bryan Singer may have opted for the cast to not need to put on a fake front ( given after all quite a method employed to transition from German to common English ) , and I felt that given the strong performances all round , it was whether to invest the time to instill that kind of discipline to speak with an accent , which may result in only marginal incremental in authenticity , or choose to forgo it since it's not going to drastically affect the narrative . So accent or not , it's a small issue really . The cast is a mouth watering one , which could also account for the appeal I suppose . Tom Cruise leads the ensemble cast , even if I found his physical defect of the lack of a hand and missing fingers somewhat distracting , because I always tend to stare at it , in wicked anticipation that the sleeve was cut too short , or if the CG guys left a tell-tale mark . And as mentioned , the cast is nothing but spectacular on paper - Bill Nighy , Tom Wilkinson , Terence Stamp ( who seems to be in almost every supporting role these days ) , Eddie Izzard , Jamie Parker who played excellently the loyal Lieutenant under Cruise's von Stauffenberg , and with what I deem as cameos by Kenneth Branagh , as well as the grossly underused Carice van Houten who was also in another WWII-set film in Paul Verhoeven's Black Book . I suppose fans of Downfall would probably be interested to take a look at a key even that took place within Hitler's chain of command , that likely had sowed additional seeds of suspicion to the dictator leading to the final days of WWII . Save for the initial one-sided battle at the African front in the first few minutes of the film , the rest became a battle of the minds and resolve of its participants in a fierce power struggle . Definitely recommended for WWII buffs .
A Nutshell Review : After This Our Exile	This film needs no introduction . The latest work from director-writer Patrick Tam , After This Our Exile took home honours from the recent 2006 Golden Horse Awards for Best Actor , Best Supporting Actor , and Best PIcture , and after watching it today , it's no surprise why it did . As mentioned in one of my recent reviews , the storyline of a movie is important , nevermind if the technicalities are great , because if the story doesn't engage , then it's a battle lost , in my opinion anyway . In After This Our Exile , the story is extremely simple , but it resonates deeply , and also because it deals with something very personal , very close , and perhaps , family ties always cut closer to home . After all , the Chinese title is Fu Zi , literally translated as Father-Son , which is quite unsophisticated if compared to the English title . If you raised an eyebrow in Aaron Kwok's win for his acting in Divergence and thought he probably didn't deserve it , then his role as Sheng will win you over and justify his back to back win at the Golden Horse Awards . I'm sold . Gone are those teeny-bopper bad hair days and repetitive dance moves . Now , with maturity , he adds a certain gravitas to his roles , and kudos too to his willingness to take on unsavoury characters , instead of playing hero all the time . His dad is the perennial terror , one who blows hot and cold in a whim , full of false bravado , and never hesitant to raise a hand against spouse and kid . Uneducated , loud , uncouth , and worse , a habitual gambler , life for his family is difficult , both in material and emotional wealth . Yes , Kwok pulled off this character with aplomb , with subtle nuances , gestures , mannerisms and attitude all spot on , bringing to life a character you'll so love to hate , yet sympathize with at the same time . And since the " Fu " played opposite the " Zi " , and having both of actors pull off their father son relationship so convincingly , with great on screen chemistry , it's no wonder too that 9 year old Gouw Ian Iskandar took home the Best Supporting Actor award as the Son . His childlike innocence will probably bowl you over with earnestness , as he holds his own opposite Kwok and screen mother played by Charlie Young . He doesn't come off as irritating , and is so much likable and vulnerable in character that you just want to give him a hug . Intuitive and smart , you'd come to love and pity his character very early in the story . Charlie Young only had half as much to do as the other two leads , and without makeup , she manages to bring out that average every day weary look of a tired mother and wife who had enough . And herein , the conflict begins , from the beginning of the film . Other supporting cast include Valen Hsu and Kelly Lin , are kept to a minimum , thereby keeping the focus squarely on the principal cast . As I mentioned earlier , After This Our Exile tells a simple tale with deep themes , and is able to draw out emotions from within you as it resonates . In what could be problems that households face when there's a gambler in the home , the movie sets to show these issues from the onset , with the breaking down of family ties and values , and the debt causing financial strain on the family . I guess opposition to our Integrated Resorts would see their arguments fleshed out here . In what could be an oversimplification of the issue , gamblers = debts = strain in family relations , it is this domestic disturbance that ring out vividly . Broadly it can be categorized into two acts ( no , I won't say anything more ) , but each act focuses on different aspects on the family relationship and dynamics . Toward the end , everything comes full circle , with the son experiencing exactly what the mom has gone through , and it makes the movie extremely poignant . It emphasizes the widely held notion that in domestic squabbles , it's always the children who suffer the fate of the consequences . Brilliant cinematography and awesome musical pieces complemented the movie well , with plenty of nice piano pieces punctuating emotional moments . The pacing , though slow , is well measured , and Ipoh never looked more beautiful , becoming a character in itself rather than just another locale to shoot the film in . Attention to details are not spared , and the production brings about Malaysian flavour to it too . Some though I predict , may not enjoy the open end that director Patrick Tam chose to finish it with , but it will allow for post viewing discussion , loads of it . My only gripe , as I just found out , is that the theatrical version now showing in theatres , is the watered down one . The director's cut , clocking in at almost 2 . 5 hours , get whittled down to 2 hours here , leaving certain scenes on the cutting room floor which were glimpsed at through a series of very quick flashback montage . I thought the film could have gone on and showed us more footage , especially on the father-son bonding ( hinted from production stills ) , which I thought would have added a better level of the understanding about the dynamics of the Fu-Zi relationship . The second movie this year which used the You Are My Sunshine song ( the other is the Korean movie ) , After This Our Exile makes its way easily into my shortlist of favourite movies of 2006 . You are my sunshine , making me happy when skies are grey . You never know how much I love you .
A Nutshell Review : Talk to Me	Don Cheadle's star is probably burning a little bit brighter now since the blockbuster hit of this summer's Iron Man had announced that he will take over Terrence Howard's role as Jim Rhodes given the latter being unable to agree on contractual terms with the studios . While Cheadle might be more familiar to audiences here as one of Ocean's 11 to 13 , it was in Hotel Rwanda that made me sit up and take notice , playing a man caught in a genocide , having to protect his family , his friends , and his job all at once . In Talk To Me , Cheadle disappears into the role of real life Washington DC's finest on the radio , Petey Greene , who tells it like it is , without mincing his words , and in doing so , garners a huge following in the city , with this film directed by Kasi Lemmons spanning the 60s to the 80s . Cheadle gives a solid performance as the DJ , an ex-convict whose common man background strikes a chord with his listeners , and this film chronicles his rise to stardom and eventual fade out from the limelight . Sharing the limelight is Chiwetel Ejiofor as partner Dewey Hughes ( quite hard to imagine that Ejiofor was once Lola in Kinky Boots ) , credited for giving Petey his big break into radio outside of the prison walls because of his needing a fresh voice and perspective to be at the helm of his radio station's morning show , which is suffering from plummeting listenership . And as they say , the rest is history . The bulk of the film centers on the friendship between these two personalities , with Hughes at the mid point , in seeing the potential to be milked from Greene to ascend far beyond the airwaves , convincing Greene to allow him to manage his career , therefore bringing about new opportunities from stage to screen . Set against the tumultuous backdrop of that era's US history , the primary theme in the movie though , was on something that you'd probably be able to identify with yourself . It is important to do things that you enjoy doing , rather than be forced to do something that you're unwilling , or unhappy about , despite reaping the rewards gained , be it for fame or money . As the movie goes along and as Greene's fame gets more widespread , there is something in his eye and response that he's not all too comfortable in being put under the spotlight all the time , and Cheadle brings out this subtleness with great excellence . I think some of us from time to time might have experienced how while you're good at something and are comfortable to remain in your own turf , that others who recognize your talent , might want to push you out of your comfort zone . If you think of it positively , it's opportunity to be gained , especially when you swim . If you sink however , then your confidence might be taken a hit , and it depends on your strength in character to be able to bounce back from defeat . Fans of soul music will have plenty to cheer as the soundtrack is nothing short of amazing given that it's set in a radio station for the most part . Wonderful performances all round and having a compelling story to tell , Talk To Me certainly is one of the gems this year that shouldn't be missed .
A Nutshell Review : Breach	Breach is directed by Billy Ray , who also wrote Flightplan and directed his only other movie , Shattered Glass , also based on real events . Based on the true story of the greatest security breach in US History , it traces the events leading to the arrest of decorated and respected FBI agent Robert Hanssen , who is one heck of a mole within the organization , committing treason of the highest order by betraying the country and selling secrets to the Soviet Union . FBI newbie Eric O'Neill ( Ryan Philippe ) gets assigned as an undercover within his own organization , in order to bring down what could possibly be the most difficult inside man to nab , because of his numerous years of field experience , and expertise . Robert Hanssen ( Chris Cooper ) on the surface appears to be stoic , no nonsense , and a God fearing man , but underneath the facade lies something more sinister , and Eric is assigned to obtain proof and evidence in order to charge Hanssen , rather than based on the evidence already gathered which would only garner him a few years imprisonment . It's spy versus spy , mole infiltration and family misunderstandings revisited again , as Eric has to deal with convincing his boss Hanssen that he is trustworthy , and to maintain that trustworthiness with his wife , who has absolutely no idea how sensitive her husband's involvement in the investigations is , and therefore a sore point conflicting with his mission . For those into spy thrillers , you'll need some patience as the movie takes its time to set up the kill . However , it's a pleasure just watching it develop every step of the way , despite knowing its outcome , and that there is no big bang exaggerated set action piece . It's an intellectual mindfield for Eric to tread , on one hand feeling extremely beholden and admiring Hanssen , yet on the other , having to snoop everything and report back to his bosses , for that hazy " for the good of everyone " mission objective . Chris Cooper gave a superb performance as the charismatic Robert Hanssen , while fielding deep dark undertones within his character . I liked the front bit where he mentors his " clerk " Eric , with full ego and cockiness of a veteran , explaining the bit about turf protection , office politics within the Bureau and inter-agency rivalry . Ryan Philippe managed to hold his own against Cooper , and was believable as the man tasked to bring down a veteran - you can feel his adrenaline rush when assigned the mission , yet sympathize with his apprehensions each step of the way . Laura Linney unfortunately played only a bit role as the direct supervisor for Eric's mission , and provided at times some light hearted moments as she exasperates over Eric's many decisions and pointed questions . There's a degree of added authenticity with the real Eric O'Neill serving as special consultant to the movie . So if spy thrillers are your cup of tea , then Breach will definitely not disappoint . Make time for this !
A Nutshell Review : The Wrestler	All the world's a stage , and all the men and women merely players . For one who lived his known life on the stage , or in this case , the ring , providing mass sporting entertainment to thousands live and through video re-runs , being at the pinnacle of his sport , rigged and staged or perhaps otherwise , nothing would be a fate more worse off , than to be fading into obscurity . For one so used to attention , love and accolades showered , to be cheered and encouraged , to be handing out high-fives , autographs and pose for photographs , it takes a lot to readjust life back to normalcy , if at all . Such is the fickleness of fame . The Wrestler is deceptively simple , about one man's struggle to repair himself after every bout , who cannot connect back to the real world of disappointments . Being aged , injuries don't seem to shake off easily , and outside of the ring , Randy " The Ram " Robinson ( Mickey Rourke ) is a nobody . His real life is in shambles , and he's still bumming around trying to heal and mend his life outside the fading limelight . His body is broken , with countless of scars , a busted ear and a weakened heart . Relationships are non-existent , and has to rely on spending money to buy time with a stripper ( Marisa Tomei ) to whom he pours his heart out to , and has affection for . Not only has he to heal his physical self , but on the emotional front he tries to reconnect with his estranged daughter Stephanie ( Evan Rachel Wood ) . It's about age and how cruel time can be to everyone of us . Old stuff fade away , new guys enter the scene , and life just goes on , whether you like it or not . For those who think that they're watching WWE in The Wrestler , you cannot be more wrong on that count . It does though provide some glimpses on what goes on behind the scenes and flashing lightbulbs , song and spectacle , and for those not in the big leagues , the more independent circuit where fights are arranged and choreographed amongst the lower league players . The documentary-style cinematography adopted by Maryse Alberti also helped in pushing this aspect of the story telling , and at times blurred fact with fiction , thinking that Rourke was indeed and perhaps a real pro-wrestler whom we're tailing from behind . We do get to witness some interesting no-holds barred fights , as well as time being slowed down , and extreme closeups to reaffirm that these are professional entertainers ( surely you don't think it's real , do you ? ) who have to look out for personal safety too . But what Darren Aronofsky really packed it in , was some excellent dramatic moments for the characters . For starters , you sympathize and empathize with them . I was a wrestling fan in my teens . Was , because I outgrew it . For the curious , I belong to the Randy Savage to the Bret Hart era of WWF ( back then when it was known as ) , having to see champions come and go , and a chord was struck , wondering if my ex-heroes had suffered the same fate as The Ram , having to try and survive hawking wares of their former glories , and reduced to nothing but a pale shadow of their glorious self . Not to say that Aronofsky doesn't have anything for wrestling fans or to artificially craft a sob-story . But instead of the cursory yeah , this is something I've seen before , he strikes right to your heart and makes all of us question how our once heroes would have faded . Mickey Rourke owns this film , and has a better screen presence than his recent Marv role in Sin City , which was obscured by graphical bells and whistles . He chews up the scenery , and I can't think of any other actor who could pull this off more convincingly than Rourke . He plays The Ram with plenty of conviction and has pain , and fight , written all over his face . If Pulp Fiction was John Travolta's calling card to return to greatness , The Wrestler is Rourke's equivalent . Marisa Tomei also did an excellent job as Pam Cassidy the stripper whom Randy shares an emotional attachment to . Similarly , her character parallels how age has been unkind to their respective professions . She's constantly struggling to get customers with competition from younger and hotter colleagues , and even when she does , unlike Randy who still gets adulation from appreciative fans , all she has is to suffer derogatory remarks , in order to make a living . If anything , Aronofsky does make you feel compassionate to these walking wounded characters , except probably for Evan Rachel Wood's Stephanie , who given the extremely limited screen time , wasn't given enough room for expression and got crowded out by the two veterans . So now if you please , I'll go find out what had happened to my past heroes whom I had once spent my teenage years watching on the goggle box . The Wrestler opens 2009 here with a bang , and it's really highly recommended , especially for those unfamiliar with Darren Aronofsky's work .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) About Schmidt	Retirement can be a scary thing . I suppose it's about 40 years before I hit retirement age ( given that it's a moving target on the increase ) , but I do confess at times I think about it , a time where I presumably have the opportunity to do whatever I please - travel , read , and of course watch more movies at discounted ticket prices , and so on , but whether or not I will have the strength and energy to do so will be a different story , and more importantly , whether my retirement funds will be sufficient to support a lifestyle I choose . Anyway I was surprised with About Schmidt . At first glance I thought it was going to be a mundane movie , but it had plenty of heart , and many moments of contemplation which actually made me ponder deeper about those sunset times . Jack Nicholson plays Warren Schmidt , a Vice President of an insurance company who retires at the start of the story . Naturally it takes much getting used to , and with time on his hands , he thinks about the legacy , or the lack thereof , in which he is leaving behind . From not being appreciated by the younger generation taking over his office , to trying to patch ties with his estranged daughter Jeannie ( Hope Davis ) who's about to get married to a blue collared " loser " Randall ( Dermot Mulroney , note that I put that word in quotations , because I thought I'd become fast friends with people like that , those who are genuinely earnest ) , much against his wishes , here's a portrait of an extremely sad , lonely man trying to take stock of his life , where little routine things suddenly become significant . The first half of the movie set the scene , before the second half takes us on a road trip of sorts , much like Broken Flowers or even Elizabethtown , during which Schmidt exhibits more of his insecurities and fear . Jack Nicholson did a superb job as usual fleshing out the character of Warren , with the cinematography being tip top in bringing out the detachment he experiences with his environment . You can feel his pain and wanting to belong , holding dear to treasures of his heart , especially his daughter . And to borrow these lines from his earlier movie , Jack's Warren Schmidt personifies " I'm only laughing on the outside , my smile is just skin deep . but if you look inside I'm really crying , you might join me for a weep ! " to a T . Based on a novel by Louis Begley and directed by Alexander Payne ( who brought us another road trip movie Sideways ) , one of the highlights of the movie is Warren's communication with an African child he adopted long distance . Through his letters , it becomes clear the issues he's grappling with , and some of the white lies he tells , which mirrors the way he lives his life . And I must say as much as movie endings are important , About Schmidt has one of the simplest , but most powerful message it brings out , and that is while we worry about the legacy we live behind in the world for generations to come , sometimes it's not necessary that it must be something monumental . The simplest gesture , straight from the heart , is all there is to make a difference , and stamp your mark . With an excellent waltz like theme for Warren Schmidt , and that shot of Encyclopedia Brown ( nostalgia ! I read that as a kid ! ) , I'd recommend About Schmidt anytime should anyone ask which recent Jack Nicolson movies one should watch . Be warned though , the Code 3 DVD is censored , especially those bits with Kathy Bates ( I suspect for , erm , nudity ) .
A Nutshell Review : Snakes on a Plane	For the record , I hate snakes , and have this phobia of snakes . I can even freeze in my tracks at a bloody picture . And it goes without saying that the Snake House is never a place I'll visit in any zoo . What's my fear about ? I don't know , just that I attach this sense of evilness and danger to these slimy ( yes I know they're not ) slithery creatures that should be condemned to the depths of hell . Anyway I digress . What compelled me to watch this picture , besides the fact that I'm a sucker for punishment , is Samuel L Jackson . He's THE man ! With Sam , you'll always know he'll lift that scene or two , oozing street charisma and attitude like none other . This is a cheesy movie done in a cheesy way but with A list production values , tons of special effects , animal trainers , and yes , plenty of snakes of all shapes and sizes . From pythons to the cobras to the rattlers , I tell you these creatures will chill you at your seats . Thank goodness this ain't on no IMAX or 3D effect , otherwise I suspect many will be reeling their heads backwards , and backwards some more . The plot's none too cerebral to begin with , so don't bother but accept , go on board , and enjoy the fright , I mean flight . It isn't going all out to scare you , though watching characterless caricatures suffer and die under the most sickening conditions involving all conceivable snake-accessible orifices and sexual appendages , provides some sort of sick pleasure . The usual clichés of thrillers / horrors are milked here as well , like the well used one that those who have sex are usually the first to go . And there are plenty of victims from where that came from , given the movie's set on a red eye flight in a Boeing jet , offering a variety of passengers like the rap star and his posse , kids travelling alone for the first time , dumb blondes , the Asian Kung Fu master , and even the cabin crew , who are put in a better light as compared to another set-on-a-plane movie Flightplan . If there should be a gripe , then it's the length of the action sequences , most of which are just too short , or unexplained , especially those involving Jackson . I mean , the audience should see how he goes around killing those SOBs , but as mentioned , we don't get to see much . I suspect some scenes will probably end up in an extended DVD version , deleted scenes , or perhaps make their way into video games , fighting his way through with makeshift weapons . That aside , and if you're OK with the censored bit in this NC-16 movie where a couple joins the mile high club ( too bad it's forcibly shortened ) , Snakes on a Plane is a movie to catch on the big screen for the fun factor , and no , you'll definitely not get to watch this on any inflight entertainment system anytime soon . The Cobra Starship music video for the movie plays through the end credits . Not too bad a song , think it's becoming a ear worm for me .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Love Letter ( 1995 )	Love Letter is an unconventional love story . For starters , there isn't an direct romantic interactions between the lead characters it wants to focus on . Most stories would have romantic scenes played out in chronological order , and the audience journeys together with the leads on their road to togetherness . Love Letter makes an audience work - it doesn't present the material outright , but rather in sporadic memory recollections . Neither does it have the formulaic boy - meets - girl - loses - girl - wins - girl sequence . In fact , we begin with a funeral anniversary , and the sense of loss made permanent . There are multiple story arcs in Love Letter , but the main one that engages the audience to find out more , is the one between Hiroko Watanabe ( Miho Nakayama ) and her fiancé Itsuki Fujii , whom we never meet , but meet only the teenage Itsuki ( Takashi Kashiwabara ) instead . Hiroko has lost her fiancé two years ago , but refuses to let go . Instead , at the spur of a moment , she copies down the address where he stayed at when he was young , and sent a letter to the address , knowing jolly well that redevelopment has caused the house to stand no more , and her letter will be akin to one sent to Heaven . To her surprise , she receives a reply from Itsuki Fujii , and unravelling the identity of the new Itsuki , discovers that she is someone who bears the same name as her fiancé , and even shared a moment in time together as classmates . The two girls never interact directly ( even thought they're played by the same actress ) , but through their correspondence , we learn more about the life of the boy in question , one which relied on Itsuki's memory to bring to life for Hiroko to dwell in . And there might be a hint why Itsuki the boy had come to choose Hiroko too , perchance also based on his memory with his namesake . Being a quiet guy , expressing his feelings never is easy , but he demonstrates his affections in some quirky manner instead . Thus a very interesting love triangle develops , though one which involves different timelines , and one which never is loud in expression , choosing instead to focus on the subtleties . You wonder when you move on , whether you'll seize the moment with someone who resembles an old flame , though that applies in looks alone , as character will definitely be different , and Miho Nakayama managed to bring differences to the two characters she played , even though it didn't include having massive makeup or wardrobe changes , but relied a lot on subtle movements and behaviour . Besides the main arc , there are also other arcs on love in the movie , specifically the new budding love between Hiroko and new flame Akiba Shigeru ( Etsushi Toyokawa ) , who tries his best to help Hiroko let go of the past , but yet standing by her when she struggles to do so , and that amongst the family of Itsuki ( the female ) , whose grandfather ( Katsuyuki Shinohaara ) had a pivotal role in a rather touching scene involving love and loss . The excellent soundtrack by Remedios also accentuates the many beautiful moments in the movie , its main theme is memorable and I believe already a recognizable classic . Die hard romantics will definitely see a difference in how a story like this gets told by writer - director Shunji Iwai , and therein likes its appeal . It goes against the grain and doesn't wrap everything up in saccharine sweet moments . However , in its digging up past memories , and controlling the flashbacks in a very measured way without serving to confuse , actively engages you to think and feel for the cha racters , and providing the space to do so .
A Nutshell Review : Luck By Chance	The opening sequence montage is beautifully designed , paying a quiet and dignified homage to the upline and downchain support functions of the entire film industry , like the guards protecting film studios and film sets , and cashiers at the box office , with the song Yeh Zindagi Bhi as a backdrop . But this serene and muted beginning is in stark contrast to everything else that is going to unfold , where humour is largely used to great effect in cushioning the unflattering commentary on the state of affairs . For example , much has been said about story lines and sets resembling some big budgeted Hollywood counterpart , and you have a director blatantly telling his scriptwriter to adopt everything from his favourite movie . A lot of satire get tossed around , and rewards the viewer paying close attention . There's even an avenue for sight gags , and one of my favourites is the poster entitled " For a Few Rupees More " . The strength of Luck By Chance is in its strong story , characterization and dialogue . It plays on everyone's stereotypes , but yet doesn't turn its main characters to caricatures . It shows the distinct worlds that aspiring wannabe actors have to face , versus those born with luck on their side , being the offspring of famous and established stars in the movie world . It examines the struggles of the dream chasers coming to Mumbai looking for their big break , where it is established that lead roles only go to newcomers when they are soundly rejected by the stars , and the insecurities and threats that established stars constantly face , with the dealing of pressure and success , and maintaining that public icon . For the bevy of star childs as they are known ( in my short foray into Indian films I have seen a number of up and coming ones ) , the mounting expectations that one has to deal from the public . Luck By Chance has a movie within the movie which the subplots are laid out against , and like all productions , funding is always key , as is the network that one has to find a foothold in because of the tacit understanding that it's about who you know and who you're related to , versus pure talent . Hence the title , where one has to be at the right place at the right time staring at the right opportunity in order to get noticed amongst thousands . Vikram Jaisingh ( the director's brother Farhan Akhtar ) is one such aspiring actor who moved from Delhi to Mumbai in search of stardom , and lives with 2 other friends and their neighbour Sona ( Konkona Sen Sharma ) who is the mistress of small time producer Chaudhary ( Alyy Khan ) of Pinky Productions , waiting for her big break to star in a big budgeted movie with a tailor made role . At the other end of the spectrum , we have the insecure mega-star Zaffar Khan ( Hrithik Roshan , whom I think is like a chameleon in being able to shape his physique at the drop of a hat ) starring in his new movie with star child Nikki Wallia ( Isha Sharvani ) , the offspring of screen legend Neena ( Dimple Kapadia ) . And adding plenty of colour to the events in and around this movie production , are the producer Romy Rolly ( Rishi Kapoor ) and his brother , the actor turned director Ranjit Rolly ( Sanjay Kapoor ) who share the spoils for most of the comedy . There are plenty of insider jokes spilt at every corner , making fun of commercial and art films , gossip rags and the sensationalizing of news . Upping the fun factor are a slew of cameo appearances with real stars playing themselves , and you can imagine the gasps when Aamir Khan appeared briefly in the beginning , and another Khan ( I'm not revealing who amongst the three Kings , your guess ) popping out to whistles from the audience for his simple role offering advice about dealing with stardom and what really matters . And to add to that if I may name drop a little , Abhishek Bachchan , John Abraham , Kareena Kapoor , Rani Mukherjee , amongst many others . We follow the making of the fictional movie from start to end , and even then , there is but only two prominent musical numbers which arise from that fictional movie alone , one of which we get to see Hrithik Roshan showcase his slick moves in a big top number . The second half of the film might have sagged a little as more attention was placed to the three way romance between Vikram , Nikki ( check out that seduction scene that seems to have taken a leaf out of Russian Dolls ) and Sona , and how success can get into one's head and the transformation from humbleness to jerk . Farhan Akhtar gives an excellent performance as the boy who innocently , then manipulative worked the system to his selfish advantage toward climbing the ladder of success , and the way it ended strongly in quite an unconventional way for a Bollywood movie , gives this film a certain gravitas in being unflinching in the messages it wants to make about the industry , where the tenacious succeed and there is not much room for sentimentalism . If you're looking for a jump point into what's on offer from Bollywood this year , then I would humbly suggest that Luck By Chance would be your best bet for an introduction to the wheelings , dealings and politicking behind the scenes by all players involved in getting the production complete , right down to generating buzz upon release , and how with luck , one's chances in life could be changed and transformed . Highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : Kontroll	Kontroll opened the Singapore Fantastic Film Festival last Thursday , and it is no surprise why . Its intriguing setting in an underground metro system is familiar everyday territory that probably everyone can relate to if you're commuting by train . Having been on some of Europe's metro systems ( London , Paris , Munich , Rome ) , this film offered me the chance to see and experience yet another country's train system . The film centers on Bulcsu , a Budapest Metro train ticket inspector , who , with his squad of 4 men , travel in its system to inspect " tickets or passes " . Its showcase of stereotypical passengers who refuse to pay is hilarious , as we encounter photo-happy Japanese tourists , the " sleeper " , the pimps , even dogs on board ( now we know why the MRT has a no-pets policy ) . What makes it all the more fun is that his squad consists of affable characters , ranging from a clueless newbie , to one who is prone to subconsciously go into comatose . Between squads , there also exists rivalry , and we're introduced to a dare called " railing " . While going about their thankless jobs , it makes you wonder the kind of abuse ( verbal or otherwise ) that these folks face as they go about their daily scope of work . Definitely not fun , nor one in which I would like to be in . We're also shown an extreme example of a " what-if " scenario - if the abuse being the last straw on the camel's back , exactly what could probably happen ( though I must say there could be some artistic license taken on weapons being brought along ) . However , added to its narrative layer is a small bit romance between Bulscu and a lady ( of course , she isn't a paying commuter ) who , for some reason , rides the metro in a bear suit . And we're also introduced from the very start , a mystery which runs through the entire show - that of commuters who apparently commit suicide by jumping onto the tracks . Or were they actually pushed ? I suppose this sub plot touches a bit closer to home , as our own mass rapid transit has of late experienced similar phenomenons . Similarly , CCTV cameras don't show anything peculiar , or the incident happened out of the scope of these cameras . However , the conclusion to this phenomenon is a discussion point , as it is very open to interpretation . The scene which I thoroughly enjoyed , I called it the " Bootsie Chase " . While the usual Hollywood fare features the all too common car chases , it's about time you can to enjoy the good old foot chase , and in this scene , set to pulsating electronica beats , is a joy to behold , as the characters involved weave through passengers , the station and its pillars . This is an enjoyable film with an excellent soundtrack ( in English ) , but I've watched it on its second and final run on the festival . You might want to check out the DVD release , as it certainly deserves to be labeled and be part of a Fantastic selection !
A Nutshell Review : Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer	I've written almost two years ago that I adored the movie adaptation of Fantastic Four , despite many out there who hated it to the core . Back then , what I found was right about it was its spot on characterization and its capture of the spirit which was FF , the bickering amongst its members as well as its theme on unity and family . I'm surprised that I actually predicted the coming of Galactus , though some would be disappointed with his big screen appearance . Don't kid yourself if you say that you didn't see Galactus coming . As its herald , no Silver Surfer story is complete without the arrival of the master wanting to devour planets to keep itself alive ( kinda reminds me of the other Transformer animated movie with Unicron ) . However , purists would go up in arms at the depiction of possibly one of the largest being in the Marvel Universe , which I thought was a better alternative in the movie without making it look too stupid with its ridiculous purple tin helmet . And what is a Silver Surfer story without Victor Von Doom showing interest in its immense power ? While you might think that the movie might have too many villains , with Galactus , Doom and the Surfer ( well , for the most parts ) , and with 4 heroes in the fray , Rise of the Silver Surfer managed to maintain a breezy pace without getting too deep into its themes nor suffer from having to introduce in detail its characters . We've already established most of that in the first movie , and the details of the Surfer and its master was just enough to enlighten new fans , while keeping older fans happy enough with its accuracy . So it's much like the comic book again , with our family of four having to deal with first of all , the rock star like atmosphere of the marriage between Mr Fantastic and Invisible Girl , before the Silver Surfer's rude arrival causing major climate changes in cities around the world , and of course , trusting the USoA army to wanna play world police again . This movie is not without obvious flaws though in continuity and logic in its narrative . For one , while its big action scenes take place in busy parts of the world , the crowd usually gets dispersed in record time . I believe some parts of the action were chopped off to prevent it from being overly draggy , but therein some logic and crowd magically disappear . Some parts too will make you wonder why doesn't the Invisible Girl just knock everyone out with her invisible projectiles , or groan that the make up artist managed to make Jessica Alba look like a fashion disaster with her unnaturally dyed-blonde hair . She looks hot when it's all tied up , but when it's let down , I tell you it's time for some shampoo ad to do some major corporate sponsorship . But I still got a kick out of its humorous moments ( not that it was so funny , but they had charm ) , and I can't get enough of the banter between the Thing and the Human Torch . One thing's for certain , while the acting might not be first class , the cast of Ioan Gruffudd , Chris Evans and Michael Chiklis ( with the help of the suit ) sure looked their parts . And that in itself , is movie magic bringing comic book panels to life . Look out too for Stan Lee , whom I think for the first time in the recent slew of Marvel movie adaptations , actually play himself ! Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer brings back the best elements in the first movie , and provides an avenue for more of such adventures with the familiar quartet . It's a popcorn movie , and one which entertains throughout its relatively short 90 minutes duration . And I'll stick my neck out and say it again , this is probably one of the better movie franchises that Marvel has put out so far . Given the way things are set up , if this movie still proves to be a box office success , may I now say that we can expect to see the Mole Man next ?
A Nutshell Review : Kabei Our Mother	My introduction into Yoji Yamada's cinematic world is through his famed and recent Samurai Trilogy with The Twilight Samurai , The Hidden Blade and Love and Honor . I had enjoyed all three films , and looking at the prolific , veteran director's filmography , I think it'll take me a very long while to watch all his films , especially the Tora-san series . Needless to say when Kabei Our Mother has finally reached our shores , I jumped at the chance to watch what would be an ode to Mothers everywhere , celebrating their innate love for their children . Based on the autobiography of Teruyo Nogami , Kabei - Our Mother tells of a close knit family of four ? Mother Kayo " Kabei " ( Sayuri Yoshinaga ) , Father Shigeru " Tobei " ( Mitsugoro Bando ) , eldest daughter Hatsu ( Mirai Shida ) and youngest child Teru ( Miku Sato ) . From the get go their lives would be changed forever , when Shigeru gets arrested under the Peace Preservation Law for his morally controversial writings against the nation , set in the late 30s where Japan had begun their " crusade " in China , and thereafter their participation in WWII . So begins Kabei's struggle to hold down jobs to feed her family , and the frequent , difficult meetings with her husband behind bars . Help comes from relatives , especially on Shigeru's side , since Kabei's own dad had adopted an " I told you so " attitude with her choice of spouse . Shigeru's one time student Yama ( arthouse buffs should recognize Tadanobu Asano here ) provides laughter as a bumbling man who slowly becomes confidante and surrogate guardian to the children , and Kabei's sister in law Hisako ( Rei Dan ) from Hiroshima , which I believe would have sounded some hindsight alarm bells as to her unfortunate fate as the film progresses through its timeline . While the film centers primarily on how the kids are growing up under the presence of their mom , and in a distant relationship with their dad , what I enjoyed is how the microscopic family events unfold under the macroscopic worldwide events that have impacted on the common folk in Japan . It's against the historical backdrop of Japan's push to regional dominance , and there are characters here that don't mask those ambitions , even discussing what the country would eventually do should it be successful in holding onto conquered lands . This is something I rarely see in Japanese films , being that frank in their discussion of that era , and also to get a glimpse of how the common man have to struggle against domestic issues made all the more difficult with resources channeled toward the war effort . The actresses casted here are pitch perfect in their delivery and roles , be they the veterans or the child actors . Actress Sayuri Yoshinaga deserves special mention for her role as the motherly figure who has to dig deep and find that inner strength to carry the household through under trying circumstances , while Mirai Shida and Miku Sato are lovable as the understanding children who have to learn to make do and compromise . Each scene with the three of them together just makes it heart wrenching when the going gets tough , or fill your heart with Joy should they be celebrating . Before long you'll soon find yourself being attracted to want to be part of this family , thanks to the primary cast's powerful performances , with Yoji Yamada coaxing some really natural performances from the kids . Kabei - Our Mother boasts some stunningly beautiful art direction , and is classy in its delivery of both happy and sad moments without going over the top , or relying on cheap melodrama to cheapen the emotions it seeks from the audience . There are plenty of little things here done right which makes it pitch perfect , with every scene not being wasted , and with every nuance very meaningful in conveying its message across , be it compassion or love . Aside from the very abrupt ending ( I had hoped that it could have continued for a lot more , despite its more than 2 hours runtime ) , Kabei Our Mother comes highly recommended , and you'll find it difficult to be holding back either your tears , or that thought about your own mom and her sacrifices she makes for you on an everyday basis . Just what those sacrifices are should you need another reminder , then the scene during the end credits roll will remind you of the stuff that you'd probably have taken for granted .
A Nutshell Review : The Constant Gardener	Finally ! After such a long wait , this movie has finally made it to our shores ( I have been lamenting the same fate of other acclaimed movies recently ) . Directed by Brazilian director Fernando Meirelles ( who did City of God ) , The Constant Gardener finds itself sandwiched between two others movies released here in the same period , sharing with North Country an aspect about whistle-blowing , and with Syrianna on the corruption of conglomerates . While Syrianna takes on oil corporations , Gardener tells a tale of clandestine governments , and the morality issues faced by pharmaceutical companies . Adapted from the novel by John le Carré , Gardener explores and suggests what-if scenarios ( I say " what-if " as I humbly ask if what was suggested by the film could have been inspired by some form of real happenings ) , of having human guinea pigs in the testing of new medicine . In contention here is a new drug for the treatment of tuberculosis , though HIV was also briefly sharing the spotlight in the plight of the African nations . The stark question posed , which makes you wonder , is whether it is right to have dying Africans , or those who are already terminally ill , test new medicine , and presenting to them Hobson's choice . And Kenya was the choice location in the movie , with having both the hustle and bustle of the cities , and the lush desert plains both beautifully captured on film . While you feel the chaos in the cities and rural squatters in rusty brown hues , you'll also feel the peacefulness and emptiness of vast lands . You'll contrast the corruption of officials of the Haves in their cocktail parties , and the simple , poor lives of the Have Nots . Ralph Fiennes puts up an excellent performance as Justin Quayle , a British diplomat in Her Majesty's Service . It's indeed a surprise exclusion in the Academy for his portrayal of an easy going man with green fingers ( hence The Gardener ) . His mantra is to mind his own business and not get too involved with the locals , but as the movie evolves , we will see a change in this stand . However it calls to mind certain issues that again will set you thinking - if you want to help , how much and how far will you go ? And why a certain group , and not others in similar situations ? Resources will be your constraint , but what is the criteria in which you will base your decisions on ? Now that you're made aware , will you still continue to turn the blind eye ? His spouse Tessa Quayle is played by Rachel Weisz , whom I'm not sure why her performance , while solid , is nothing to warrant a shout for an Academy nomination . Nonetheless , she's the center of the entire scheme of things , and her story gets mainly told in flashbacks . A whistle-blower definitely ruffles feathers , and you know you're in a fix when you ruffle the feathers of the wrong bird . Extremely blunt and determined ( and also giving the filmmakers an opportunity to air their opinion on the Iraqi war ) , she discovers that there's more than meets the eye in the way medicine is dispensed to the African poor , and sets off on a crusade in which the means could justify the ends . But we slowly learn and unravel the mystery of what happened , and who's involved , as the Gardener takes us on his trail of investigation , digging through clues , and weeding out red herrings , piecing together the entire event . It is the film editing here which gets the thumbs up . Just as you accept something at face value , there is enough suggestion again to make you think otherwise . In case you're wondering if the meandering narrative or themes will put you off , you might be glad to know that central throughout the movie is the love between the couple . How so much unsaid , and circumstances not explain could lead to suspicion , or deliberately done so to protect the other . Although the leads spend considerable time apart , we could feel , especially from Justin , the strong emotional attachment he has for Tessa , right up until the ending , which is just about right in the way it should end . It's a wonderful film , one in which you'd have to stay attentive to truly appreciate , and one which prods at your conscience . Given it's insane release schedule together with Walk the Line , Jarhead , Syrianna , and with North Country and Match Point already screening , we're indeed spoilt for choice which to watch first . I'd say watch them all !
A Nutshell Review : Munich	The Munich 1972 Olympic games will forever go down in infamy for the killing of Israeli sportsmen by a terrorist group known as Black September . If you wish to know more about the motives and happenings on that fateful day , including the ineptness of the Germans to manage the entire situation , resulting in the deaths of almost all the perpetrator and the victims , do check out the documentary One Day In September . But not to say that Steven Spielberg's Munich fares any less . My recommendation is to watch the documentary first if you wish to understand more of what happened before , then to follow up with Spielberg's movie for the tale of what happened after when the Mossad went after the mastermind planners . So that you'll not be as irritating as the bimbo sitting behind me asking her equally clueless boyfriend " what happened ? Why like that ? " Spielberg's movie is as every bit , Spielberg . It grips you from the beginning and never lets go until the end . For those who did not heed my advice above , don't worry , there's a re-enactment of the terrible event from the point where they entered into the Olympic Village , and various scenes thereafter en route to the airport are edited in between the movie . As mentioned , the movie places focus on the Mossad's attempt to wipe out the terrorist masterminds , and we follow the journey of their appointed leader , Avner , played admirably by Eric Bana , who now probably has cornered roles for the tough yet sensitive guy , like Hector in Troy , or Bruce Banner in Hulk . And it's this spy-versus-spy game , that this movie excels in . We take the usual peek into government organizations sponsoring clandestine operations , and assembles Avner with a team that looked straight out of Mission : Impossible's IMF . We follow them through the missions so carefully planned ala Ocean's Eleven , aimed at sending signals to the Israeli oppositions that force will be met with force , and violence with violence . Indeed violence begets violence , and what goes around comes around , but at what cost ? Information brokers are all set to profit from violence , and in the world of secret agents , so long as the price is right , you get your information , regardless of what you want to do with it . But the movie also takes a more personal look into the life of Avner , who started off with gusto and with a deep sense of patriotism in their missions , before we slowly see the toil being taken on a family man who can't be with his family , or his home and country , and the degeneration of Avner into paranoia . When you're playing hunter for so long , and you find yourself one day being the prey , that's the effect it'll have on you , of over suspicion on the pretext of playing it safe . John Williams is at his element here in providing a soundtrack that is intense and fits the movie perfectly . During mission scenes , you'll feel just as tense as the characters planning and executing ( pardon the pun ) their hits . Avner's team comprises of folks who are not exactly field experts , but their camaraderie on screen is at its finest . I was paying attention to Daniel Craig's highly volatile character Steve , and I'd still think he doesn't have what it takes to become Blond , I mean , Bond . And besides Craig , the only other peculiarly minor letdown I have was the final bed scene between Avner and wife . I thought the editing was done in a very distasteful manner , though I understand what it was trying to get at with the inter-splicing of the Munich massacre . Somehow it could have been done better . It's a controversial film , but only for the controversy surrounding the subject matter , and of Spielberg's roots . It doesn't glorify either side , or try to make a statement which side is right . Two wrongs never made a right , and the movie's narrative plays it that way . On a normal year , this film would be a strong contender for Best Picture , given all the predictable ingredients required for a win . However , Brokeback Mountain would probably snag the trophy for its more intimate feel as compared to standard fare of a crowd pleasing film . But the message in Munich is nonetheless clear , as hinted so subtly at a small scene of tuning a radio .
A Nutshell Review : Body of Lies	If you'd believe the angle the trailers adopted for this movie , I guess you're more than likely to deem it an adversarial duel between DiCaprio and Crowe , with the latter being some armchair smarty-pants willing to risk it all to " save civilization " by betraying the former . Well thankfully , the story is a lot more than that , and being a clash of ideals , personality and tactics , while still working on and for the same side , makes this a much more gripping thriller to sit through . We have Bourne , Bond and the occasional Spy Vs Spy type of movie , but Ridley Scott , in an adaptation of David Ignatius ' novel of the same name , puts a very realistic spin on this , perhaps even too close in its unflinching take on the topical events on Terrorism , as is its treatment of the intelligence warfare game that that part of the world could be engaged in right now , where the truth is an invaluable commodity that can be traded , and half truths often passing off as facts , with lies just clouding and muddling everything up . While it does make the CIA look inept in the portrayal here , and puts the Jordanian intelligence service in much more competent light , you'd start to realize that anti-terrorism efforts do boil down to basic level human to human trust , cooperation and competence . Russell Crowe stars as Ed Hoffman , the head honcho of a very high tech counter-terrorism department with plenty of fanciful monitors to view events unfold thousands of miles away , and with advanced weaponry to call upon at his disposal , with a penchant for running many simultaneous side operations privately . But of course being far away from the action , he very much relies on his best field agent Roger Ferris ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) , young , energetic , smart and with the linguistic ability of Arabic , to feed him much needed intelligence from which to formulate his strategies . So we have an experienced , cunning management strategist , and a go-getter operations guy in what would be a dream-team pairing , if not for their fairly constant arguments because they each subscribe to different philosophies and approaches to the same problem . Which is to nab one highly wanted fictional terrorist who has faded off everyone's radar , because of the low-tech way how these terrorists operate . Sitting through this well paced film , you do come to appreciate how different tactics work at different times , with the US style of blowing up everything without remorse or much deliberate thought , versus the Arab's way of measured sowing of seeds of infiltration . One you get instant results , but not much to follow up from , and the other the results come far later , but providing constant intelligence feed , and moles everywhere definitely helps . On one hand , we get Ed Hoffman who pretty much bulldozes everything in his path , while on the other as Ferris would have preferred , to have trust in their Arab counterparts for the convenient cultivation of allies , which Hoffman clearly frowns upon given his preference for dispatching staffers who are no longer useful . With a number of similar genre films as The Kingdom , Syriana , Rendition and the likes , think of Body of Lies as all their good bits rolled into one , where the terrorists are indeed one ingenious bunch who think of simple tactics to thwart technology which they lack . You'll be left guessing and second guessing the intent of everyone in the film , and this amounts to putting yourself in the character's shoes , and allows you to play along as you decide whom you'd like to trust . However , there is a romance subplot thrown in which while crucial , I thought it distracted us a little from the main storyline of mole against mole and the devising and execution of a radical strategy , and of course for a movie to wrap everything up just after two hours , the ending might just be a little tad too convenient , and perhaps wishful thinking of everyone in the real world of course , to have problems solved with that little effort . While Ridley Scott has collaborated with Russell Crowe for a number of films already ? Gladiator , A Good Year , American Gangsters and the upcoming Nottingham , here Crowe clearly takes a back seat , as hinted by the marquee on the poster which puts DiCaprio's name first . His character of Hoffman flits in and out of the film , being the unliked strategist pulling strings over satellite pictures from Langley . Most times we see him as a family man trying to set things " right " over the phone , while being an inept father . But when it comes down to walking the talk , he's definitely a force to be reckoned with , and his vast experience in great contrast to DiCaprio's young upstart character of Ferris . I thought DiCaprio is consciously moving away from his pretty boy romantic image by picking on more mature roles which require him to flex more of his acting chops , as seen with the likes of his roles in The Departed , The Aviator and even Blood Diamonds . He clearly carries the film here on his shoulders , being given some of the best lines about the current situation in the movie , and some fine balance with action sequences . If anyone's growing from strength to strength from movie to movie , my vote will go to DiCaprio , hands down . With an all round story which resonates viz-a-viz the real world , and commendable leads and supporting cast to pull this through , Ridley Scott delivers yet again a riveting tale that could rank high on my list as the top movies of the year . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Once in a Summer	My cinematic memory of South Korean actor Lee Byung-hun was in macho action movies like JSA and A Bittersweet Life , so Once in a Summer appeals because I am curious to know how he would do in an out and out soppy romance , released in time this month for Valentine's Day . And the verdict is yes , it will hit the right spots with the romantics out there , but even as I rolled my eyes at the formula employed for a romance , I was won over by its hard hitting ending , and moments as described in one of my favourite songs . Lee plays a rich man's son Suk-young , in times of great turmoil when university students , unhappy with the state of affairs in the country , are planning to go on a protest . He joins his friends on their travels to a remote village , in order to escape from his strict father , and needless to say , that summer he'll begin his romance with one of the village girls Jung-in , the village librarian . And thus begin the wonderful shots of beautiful landscapes which drapes the relationship between our lovebirds , and the usual events that lovers go through . It's not easy and smooth sailing though , as Jung-in comes with emotional baggage and proves to be hard to get . But you won't get too bored though with his frequent pursuit , as the narrative also takes a glimpse into the lives of the villagers , as they experience new technology like moving pictures , and electricity . Once in a Summer takes on a dual timeline running concurrently , and the flashbacks and forwards are quite nicely edited without any jarring moments . The soundtrack proved to be memorable as well , though these are techniques so familiar and now deemed necessary in making a romance movie . If the formula isn't broken , why fix it - and even right up until the ending , though I'd like to offer a different take . So what follows is a spoiler , which I thought is what made this movie a classic , and allows it to transcend its " same-old " label . SPOILER Love is a powerful emotion , but denial of your loved one is an big unforgivable sin . In denial , you would have destroyed every shred of credibility that you have . And I felt extremely down watching that scene , when it takes the other party to realize just what you've done , all down to the cause of self-preservation , but he / she knows and understands . It takes a lot to acknowledge the fact , and even more so to play along . Love is not what words are said , or things that are done , but more so as what is sincerely inside . If you really truly love someone , self-preservation would be the last thing on your mind , though some may argue that what was done was necessary to hope that all ends well . So when one party has decided to move on after the huge disappointment , it's heart wrenching for both parties , but perfectly justified . SPOILER ENDSAll in all , a highly recommended romance movie with all the necessary ingredients for that date , and filled with an ending that would probably linger on after the movie has well ended ( making it good for that after-movie discussion as well ) .
A Nutshell Review : Campfire	Campfire ( Medurat Hasevet ) marks the last film for me during the Israel Film Festival , and personally , I thought this film was the most mature of the lot , being honest in exploring the lives and relationships in all members of a single parent family . Being all women in the house , recently widowed Rachel Gerlik ( Michaela Eshet ) takes great pains in order to protect her daughters Esti ( Maya Maron ) and Tami ( Hani Furstenberg ) from growing pains , and it is in the characters that we see an observation of romance in three forms . For Rachel , it is a second chance at real romance . She admits to her daughters that she has never been in love , not even with their father , and opportunity comes in the form of Yossi ( Moshe Ivgy ) the bus driver , who's attentive and sincere , and while having his own awkward moments at professing his love , you're likely to root for him to get his girl . Rachel though has her hands full , in juggling a fight to be accepted by her community in order to relocate to the new West Bank settlement to start life afresh , now made complicated by a potential love , and in trying to reconnect with her daughters . In elder daughter Esti , we see budding puppy love , as well as her very distinct opposition with her mom , stemming from Rachel's refusal to provide her with some privacy at home . I guess every parent will have to face their kids at this point in their teenage lives , and hopefully live to tell the tale of triumphant tolerance in the face of constant cynicism . And lastly , probably the saddest of the lot , with Tami and her brush with one ugly emotion of Lust . The English title at least , refers to a pivotal moment in the story which involves around the Bonfire incident , and you can't help but seethe with rage , where writer-director Joseph Cedar succeeds in eliciting anger with a sense of helplessness , and deep despair . What succeeded too is the performance of Hani Furstenberg in fleshing our her character , as we witness her credible spectrum of emotions ranging from the damsel in distress , and in being able to draw strength from within to deal with her terrible ordeal . Her chemistry with Michaela Eshet is quite amazing , and you will definitely be moved at how their characters interact with each other in the dealing with the fallout , even though it was just a short scene . I guess nobody should be made to suffer in that manner without clear repercussions or punishment , but reminds you in real life that sometimes there are situations where you can't expect everything to go in your favour , even though you're right and are seeking justice . Instead , we see how one can face up to adversary in whichever form they take , and through Rachel , we realize that the well intent of others , who subconsciously impose their will and thoughts onto yourself , becomes enslaving , and there comes a time where one must break free . Free from living a life dictated by the community , of the need to conform unnecessarily , and to learn to stand on your own two feet . Michaela Eshet encapsulates this development of her character , and you can't help but to cheer silently when she finally breaks free from a mindset bondage . It might be a small movie with a small principle cast , but its message and lesson couldn't be more than relevant , especially when it comes to the notion of blood being thicker than water , with a mother's love that knows no bounds .
A Nutshell Review : Paradise Now	Paradise Now was the Palestinian film which won the Golden Globes this year for best foreign language film , and it's no wonder to see why it did . Touching on very real , contemporary and the sensitive issue about the relations between the Israelis and the Palestinians , it takes on the much talked about and feared weapon of terrorists / freedom fighters , that of the suicide bomber . And for that , I applaud the movie's take and narrative , which treads the very fine line and provides the audience aspects from both ends of the spectrum . The introduction is nicely set up , that the Israelis view the Palestinians with suspicious eyes , while it is the case of contempt the other way around . It doesn't set out to glamorize dastardly deeds , but presents a more intimate look into the making of a martyr , the motivations behind those who have willed themselves to political suicide , as well as presenting arguments for a more peaceful resolution through negotiations . Said ( Kais Nashef ) and Khaled ( Ali Suliman ) are childhood friends living in the city of Nablus . They're essentially the working class , and on the surface , your average Joe with non extremist views , living in a city where explosions are common everyday events . But before you know it , it's revealed that they are freedom fighters living a life of normalcy , and beneath the happy-go-lucky facade , they're ever ready to die for their cause . This movie humanizes the anonymous faces we often see in the news , thereby drawing flak from certain circles . A chance presents itself , and the two of them are assigned to an unnamed group's latest and largest operation in 2 years , a bombing in Tel Aviv . Here's where things are interesting , as rituals are presented as the duo prepare themselves for their appointment with Paradise . And this movie doesn't hold back in making fun of precisely this sacred promise of going to Heaven after the violent act of murder is committed . Watching it being presented through dialog by their chief operative , makes you wonder how gullible and easily manipulated would-be martyrs can be . But just as you're ready to generalize the simplistic behavior of suicide bombers , the movie's third act will arrest you with a twist that deeply explores the agendas , personal vendettas and the likes , which transcend all reasons and logic , providing more than enough fuel for motivation . Worry not though that the movie will be heavy in theme . There are adequate light hearted moments to break the seriousness , and interesting visual details like the handless bomb - maker , puts things into certain perspective . Or that tongue-in-cheek reference to The Last Supper as well . The ending was superb . My guess is many weaned on Hollywood will not come to appreciate it as it yanks the carpet from under your feet . Those who are accustomed to big , loud explosions might find it puzzling . But I thought it was a brilliant way to end it , a silent purposeful statement that continues throughout the end credits , stripping away any glamor of violence , whatever the cause , reason or rationale used to justify it . Paradise Now is a film rooted in realism despite its fictional storyline . It is without the usual glitz associated with recent films touching on the subject ( Syrianna comes to mind ) and makes perfect use of its smaller scale to tell a more intimate , but no less powerful , story .
A Nutshell Review : Gabai Granny	Gabai Granny is based on the bestseller Saga No Gabai Baachan ( Gabai Granny from Saga ) , which is penned by comedian Shimada Yoshichi as he recounts his childhood memories of growing up under the care of his grandmother . And without a doubt , this is possibly one of the crowd favourites given the high turnout of Japanese folks who have come for this screening . Starring the evergreen Yoshiyuki Kazuko in the title role , it tells the story of a young boy Akihiro , who was sent against his wishes and to his surprise , to the countryside to brought up by his grandmother . In all four movies screened today , it seemed that it's common for parents who are struggling to cope with life , to either sell their children , or to send them away in the hopes that someone else can assist in taking care of them . In Akihiro's case , it is no different , as his mother ( played by Kudoh Youki ) struggles as a bar-hostess . To a young boy , journeying to a faraway place , and living in conditions alien to him , definitely makes him miss home . Worse , he is not familiar with his grandmother and her ways too . But this is Gabai Granny we're talking about , and within minutes of her introduction , you'll fall for her warmth ways . We slowly discover , together with Akihiro in his growing pains , just how resourceful Granny is , and she's possibly the first eco-friendly person too , with values of recycling and reusing greatly entrenched within her personal values . The merits of the story , and the lessons learnt from Granny , is both touching and by no means forceful in having them shoved down your throat . And kudos to Yashiyuki's earnest and heartwarming portrayal of a Granny who truly cares , and loves unconditionally . There is much to be learnt from her philosophy on thrift , though when it comes to spending , she goes for nothing but the best . But possibly the best lesson that can be learnt from her , is to always look at the positive side of adversary , to never be beaten down . She imparts excellent values , positive thinking and reasoning peppered with comedy , you can't help but feel endeared to her . Love , friendship , good advice , and plenty of everything else makes Gabai Granny a delight to watch . However , I felt that the ending was a little too abrupt for my liking , as it probably didn't provide me an ending that seemed satisfactory , not that it's clichéd though , far from it . Fans of Ken Ogata ( who has featured himself quite a bit in this Festival with Vengeance is Mine and Ballad of Narayama ) will probably sit up and notice his Tofu seller role here .
A Nutshell Review : Arthur and the Minimoys	Director Luc Besson is probably synonymous with movies laden with violence , like Nikita , Leon the Professional , and the science fiction fantasy The Fifth Element . The Taxi franchise too is associated with the French director , as are the other diverse variety of movies written by him , ranging from Danny the Dog to 13th District . And finally , an animation which doesn't feature talking animals . Talk about a deserved break from animation of those sorts . Besson has weaved a magical fantasy adventure , combining live action and delightful 3D animation which is absolutely stunning , and not forgetting a memorable , simple yet strong story to carry the movie through , rather than rehashed juvenile tales that put you to sleep . No doubt that you might think there are bits which makes it look like a distant cousin of Honey I Shrunk the Kids , or Ants / A Bug's Life , Arthur and the Minimoys has its own saccharine sweet backstory developed , leading to an inevitable ending of which it isn't pessimistic about . In fact , it ends on hope , and love , and there's always something special with movies that dare to end wit that . The hybrid technique used in itself is special too , as there are too few movies which do so , one of which that comes to mind is Who Framed Roger Rabbit . Here , Arthur is played by Freddie Highmore , last seen in A Good Year , and I thought he's slowly adding to his resume with credible performances all round in the various movies he's in . Lending star power to the movie are the voice talents of ( in the English version ) , check this out - Madonna , Robert De Niro , Jimmy Falon , Harvey Keitel , Snoop Dogg , and David Bowie , who seems to be on a slowburner to making movies these days . Arthur and the Minimoys is full of love - between Arthur and Selenia the Minimoy Princess ( all animated movies must have lovebirds , you know ? ) , and more importantly , between family members . The message on nature and loving nature becomes secondary somewhat , but nonetheless still rings through . Highly recommended animated feature , a refreshing change from the usual style offered .
A Nutshell Review : Evangelion : 1 . 0 You are ( Not ) Alone	While I knew a little about the Japanese anime Neon Genesis Evangelion through the reading of various fan sites dedicated to it , I've never actually sat down and watched an episode of the series . So when opportunity came by to experience the Rebuild of Evangelion , why not start the slate clean ? Rebuild of Evangelion is actually a tetralogy based on the original anime series by the same creative team , but it's not exactly a shot-by-shot rehash in that it does include some extra scenes , and I guess the objective is to allow the tetralogy to encapsulate what worked in the original , while at the same time to perhaps make it the more definitive telling of the story . Kind of like how comic books like to do the various reboots and tweaking of origins to suit the times . We're introduced to Shinji Ikari , the teenage kid whose father Gendo is commander of an organization called NERV , which developed the Evangelion mechas to fight against alien Angels who invade Earth . To a layman like me , it's something like Ultraman battling monsters , except that are certain constraints here that make Evangelions interesting . Firstly , they are dependent on launch pads and are wired to NERV control , and what more , piloting these sophisticated mechas involves some bio-fusion between children , and the bots . Imagine having the fate of the world resting on the shoulders of a child , and what more , a rookie one in Shinji , who has to learn the ropes on the job . To complicate matters , he's the reluctant hero who whines a lot , is indecisive , and seems like he could lose it all anytime . But that's exactly what makes Evangelion a joy to watch . The flawed heroes , compounded by the fact that with every increasingly powerful Angel to battle , the Evangelions seem to be more patched and repaired after each encounter , you'd wonder how long it could hold up before actually crumbling . The battle sequences here are nothing less than spectacular to watch , as we discover along with the heroes , just how best to defeat the vastly different Angels . Animation wise there's nothing to specially shout out about , as it's quite standard 2D fair with the usual attention to details . Being the introductory movie , this film begins quite unconventionally in the thick of the action to grip your attention and never let up . As it moves along , it does drop hints of previous incidents , while introducing us to new characters along the way , expanding its mythos and universe . And in all intents , it does leave many doors opened for questioning , and it's almost definite that these would ( hopefully ) be answered in the subsequent films . Oh , and for action junkies , I give the thumbs up for the final battle in this movie - the creative team really do know how to make everything look really bleak ! For those who are new to the series , I quite sure this will serve as an excellent starting platform into the Evangelion universe . For those who have already been in the loop ( and probably hated the series ending ) , this could be interesting for you to see what changes were made , and whether you will prefer the tetralogy instead .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) ( 2002 )	It's true that you always remember what you were doing at a point when disaster or tragedy strikes . And none more so that September 11 , 2001 , a date which changed the entire global landscape in its fight against terrorism . No , this documentary didn't set out to be dwelling on the events leading to . Rather , the filmmakers , brothers Gédéon and Jules Naudet , set out to do a documentary on the trials and tribulations of a rookie New York firefighter . They had gone to the academy and done some shoots of training , and had handpicked their " proby " ( probation firefighter ) to join them in an NY firehouse , home to Ladder 1 and Engine 7 . But their production was to develop and contain at that time , believed to be the only shot of the first plane slamming into the World Trace Center . I was traveling back with a friend on the train from a night of LAN gaming , and received a call at about 850pm local time from my Dad , who informed me of the above . Few minutes later , he told me there was another , and that the WTC was under attack . By the time I arrived home , the upper floors of the twin towers were ablaze and in smoke , and to my horror , they collapsed , under an hour . The filmmakers had two cameras running that day , one who had followed a team out on a routine call , and which immediately raced to the WTC upon hearing and seeing the plane crash into it . We follow what is possible the only filmed sequence of events in the lobby of WTC1 where the first responders of firefighters , paramedics , and police had to make sense of what happened , and to quickly develop a plan of action . The other camera , held by the other brother , was making his way to WTC to look for his sibling , and along the journey , captured the many expressions of New Yorkers , as well as the sense of chaos in and around Manhatten . Peppered throughout the documentary are numerous interviews with the men from Ladder 1 and Engine 7 , which miraculously , did not suffer any casualty . But being survivors also brought about its own set of psychological turmoil , as they struggle to come to terms with the event . Through the events that unfold , we learn of the strong camaraderie amongst these men who risk live and limb each day on their jobs , to save lives . We began with what the documentary was supposed to be , before events of the day totally swung in and became the focus , right up to the rescue phase where hopes of finding survivors under the rubble were kept alive by the men who work round the clock in making sense of the collapsed steel structures . It's not a film that is fabricated , and what you see here cannot be recreated in any other documentary ( and heavens , not sound stages for Hollywood blockbusters ) . It's as close as you can get to that day , witnessing the event up close , from safety . Code 1 DVD contains a separate extra hour of 4 sets of interviews with the men of Ladder 1 and Engine 7 .
A Nutshell Review : Lars and the Real Girl	I'd bet almost everyone during their childhood years would have interacted with their toys somehow , be it outwardly verbal , or playing it all in the mind . Conversations with dolls , teddy bears , or even with G . I . Joe himself beating up Cobra Commander , these are stuff of what a rich imagination would be made of , breathing a form of consciousness onto inanimate objects . Some kids don't grow up of course , retaining their childlike mannerisms within a grown up body . Ryan Gosling's Lars is a gentle , soft-spoken man , extremely shy but ever ready with a warm smile that can melt the sternest of hearts , and when nervous or anxious , blinks hard . Living in the garage ( by choice ) of a house occupied by brother Gus ( Paul Schneider ) and his wife Karin ( Emily Mortimer ) , we learn that Lars has a condition of being delusional , and his extreme introversion causes him to absolutely abhor signs of affection . It's been a while since I remembered a movie having a central character spending much time interacting with an object , the most memorable of course would be Tom Hanks ' Chuck Noland being castaway on an island and finding companionship with Wilson the volleyball . Here , Lars finds a new security blanket in his mail order sex doll he christians Bianca , which is highly customizable , anatomically correct , and quite attractive to boot . Furthermore , it's not just one character that gets all emotional with it , in fact , the entire small midwestern town does , where everybody indulges Lars and his new friend , at first to curious stares , but slowly warming up to even Bianca as well , as their tender reactions now turn into immense efforts bringing Lars out of the shell . And would you believe that the director for Mr . Woodcock helmed this movie ? I suppose one would have imagined that with a plot device like a sex doll , it will be extremely easy to traverse down the path of comedy . However , Lars and the Real Girl avoided that with a ten foot pole , being contemplative , and for the most parts , surprisingly quiet . It's a sublimely warmhearted movie about community , love , and relationships forged under trying circumstances . It's unconventional in its approach to conventional themes , and therein lies its wonderful charm with a pinch of quirkiness . Those who have enjoyed Ryan Gosling's performance in Half Nelson will find that he's again in fine form , and personally I felt he did much better here . He brings out the innocence of Lars succinctly , and his performance will without a doubt touch many with his earnestness in being a Boo Radley without ill-intentions to people around him , and wanting to be left alone doing his own thing . It might seem like a one man show again , but the supporting casts are given ample opportunity to shine and complement Gosling , with Emily Mortimer being the ever supportive pillar of strength in the household , juggling all the weirdness with her pregnancy , and Paul Schneider the opposite , a skeptic who feels responsible and remorseful for Lars ' condition . Patricia Clarkson and Kelli Garner play the other women in Lars ' life , the former the psychologist treating his condition , and the latter a co-worker who's equally shy in expressing her true feelings for this man-child . The power of the mind and imagination , to say that it's powerful would be a gross understatement , and to witness how honest emotions get to conquer mental conditions , is indeed a joy to behold . Lars and the Real Girl succeeds in being mature about the treatment , and having a great cast deliver the goods superbly , is already a major plus . Should you not want to sit through another teenage sex-romp comedy like Superbad , then let not the notion of having a sex-doll on screen turn you away , as you'll be pleasantly surprised by the end results . Recommended ! P . S . Like Knocked Up which featured a real site in Mr Skin , those smitten with Bianca will be happy to know the site featured in the movie is real too , though a standard real doll will set you back by about US$7K no less . As I know I have readers in their teens , I will not be adding actual links to the websites mentioned here .
A Nutshell Review : The Wind That Shakes the Barley	The preview for this movie played to a full house at Picturehouse , no doubt with almost half those in attendance being Caucasians , and I'd bet almost everyone is curious to the pedigree of Ken Loach's latest film that snagged that Palme d'Or at last year's Cannes Film Festival . The Wind That Shakes the Barley is a mouthful , and it plays like a thinking man's Braveheart . While Mel Gibson's Academy Award winner was set in the 13th Century with the Scots battling the English for independence , Wind tackles similar subject matter about oppression , the rallying to arms and the battle for independence , set in early 20th Century in Ireland , sandwiched between the two World Wars . As such , there are many parallels between the movies in terms of the politics behind the scenes , the arguments for and against their rationale of armed resistance and struggle , though Wind doesn't have the large scaled set action pieces for war , and it doesn't need to . It takes a very intimate look at the historical background of the Irish Republican Army , as seen through the eyes of two brothers Damien ( Cillian Murphy ) and Teddy ( Padraic Delaney ) . The movie doesn't waste time in establishing a rather biased fact , that the English troops are despised for their arrogance and the crimes that they commit among commonfolk , much like the Robin Hood days . It doesn't take two ticks for Damien to enlist with the IRA for their armed struggle against oppression witnessed by many , and soon enough they discover that their political ideals differ . Yes , it's as much a talkie movie as it is one with action . Even without background of the politics of the time , you'll still be able to follow through much of the debate given passionate performances , and fiery speeches made from the heart , given the universal subject themes . As always the case , differing ideals become the crux of the issue , and that adage that power corrupts ring through , especially amongst those at the top echelons , the politicians versus the man on the street . What I thought was intriguing , was how freedom was negotiated , as a compromise rather that complete , yet with plans in the backburner on going against such agreements when one becomes more powerful - the classical giving an inch and taking a yard , when the time is correct , with a powerful base to work from . Cillian Murphy gives yet another commendable performance as Damien , a freedom fighter ( or terrorist , depending on how you see it ) fighting for the injustice he experiences and observes . Padraic Delaney too holds his own as Teddy the brother , and the two cannot be more different , especially when they stand for the same ideals , disagreeing on execution . One's an idealist , while the other doesn't mind compromise , but both share extreme pain in doing what they deem morally right . Despite Spider-man's much awaited sequel making its debut worldwide this week , Wind is one movie that I'll recommend if summer blockbuster's aren't your cup of tea . Highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : The Tune	This is a story about a song writer called Del ( voiced by Daniel Nieden ) , who's working on the latest hit for his boss , Mr Mega ( Marty Nelson ) . However he's suffering from creator's block , and couldn't find the inspiration to finish the tune . At the same time , his relationship with Mr Mega's secretary , Didi ( Maureen McElheron ) , may start to fall apart should he not be able to complete the tune , and this just adds to the pressure . What follows is something like an adventure in Alice's Wonderland , as Del , en route to submitting his incomplete work to Mr Mega , finds himself on the wrong end of a highway , and gets transported to the extremely weird world of Flooby Nooby , where it seems like everyone is able to hold their own tune . The secret of course is to write from the heart , and he embarks on this quest within Flooby Nooby to learn just how to do that . There are more than 10 songs featured in the movie , which just gets better and better with each song being played , ranging from pop to folk and even the blues . The songs are naturally the highlight of an animated film hinging on them , and Maureen McElheron certainly created the tunes that combined perfectly with Bill Plympton's visuals . Del encounters different folks with different strokes , and I'm still in awe at the immense creativity that Bill Plympton has featured in the characters of this movie . Infusing great humour , there are plenty of mini episodes which could stand alone as comedic animated shorts , like the two violent men , the sad story of a taxi driver , and of course my personal favourite , probably the precursor to The Matrix Reloaded's Architect in the Wiseone ( Chris Hoffman ) . What's amazing too is the different animation styles adopted by Plympton within the film , and truly , this is great stuff . You have animators who , after discovering a style they're comfortable with , sticks to it and you can see the style replicated in their drawings . Plympton's so diverse , you can hardly classify his works as they are extremely wide-ranged . The shorts who have provided this hint , but I didn't expect him to combine the styles into one coherent feature length movie so seamlessly . Before the screening began , Bill Plympton shared with the audience that The Tune costed around US$150-175K in those days , and it took him about two and a half years to make the film . You see , rarely does the creator animate his own stuff , but Bill probably is the first who did it , for a feature length animation . Though he prefers to admit that he's not too diligent and likes to spend time travelling , which of course , adds to the production schedule . He's been able to recoup the cost of production only recently , thanks to the advent of technology like the Internet and DVD sales . He also shared that his stuff is wildly popular in Korea , that it is a huge market for him . And for budding animators , his advice would be to own their own creations . When asked a question about opportunity cost between working independently , and for a studio / production house , he highlighted his preference for having the creative freedom to do what he wants , instead of having someone else provide the directions and nagging if something is too politically incorrect or too violent .
A Nutshell Review : Click	With comedies , I half expected the best bits to make it to the trailers . They always do these days , and leave the actual movie much to be desired in the laughs department . Click however , was a totally different ball game altogether , not that it was lacking in laughs , but never did I expect the 2nd half of the movie to go where it went . It might be formulaic , but the message it has for the audience , rings through so effectively through Adam Sandler's performance . Sandler plays Michael Newman , an extremely busy architect trying to find his way to the next big promotion , to be the business partner of his company alongside his boss Ammer ( hammed up by David Hasselhoff ) . To Michael , he is working his butt off in order to provide for his family , and places work priority always as number 1 , at the expense of family and quality time . He's uber mean , and vents his frustrations at the neighbour's kid ( not that he's any way likable to begin with ) . In an effort to get a remote control to universally control all the electrical appliances at home , he chances upon a quirky salesman Morty ( Christopher Walken ) who gives him for free , one such device . Not before long , Michael learns of the power of the " universal remote " , and his entire life becomes a DVD menu - where he can playback , fast forward , and even watch certain milestones in his life with a James Earl Jones ' voiced commentary . And it is here that the movie constantly churned out comedic situations after comedic situations , with all kinds of humour flying around at every turn . But in the second half , the movie takes on dramatic proportions as in Sandler's earlier movie Spanglish , which I also enjoyed . Beneath the laughter , comes a serious reminder about our priorities , and it made me think , hard . Sure we all strive to excel at what we do , in order to eke out a living . It's always easier said than done , but it served as a good reminder , to those with families and kids , not to neglect them . The importance of putting family first , and achieving some form of work-life balance , sometimes get overlooked as we run the rat race . Time never looks back , and once you miss the boat , that's it , and there's no practical way to rewind to key moments in life , like a movie can . In living life , there are always bounds and bounds of challenges . After all , aren't those challenges supposed to make life interesting ? Instead of sidestepping issues and sweeping them under the carpet , we must learn to face them with gusto instead of looking for the easy way out . At times , choosing the easy way out will mean the missing out on the experience , which to me is a whole lot more costly . But no worries , perhaps I'm just looking too deeply into the message in the movie , but you get my drift . And the cast is picture perfect , with Michael's parents ( Henry Winkler and Julie Kavner - she voices Marge Simpson ) providing an extended family feel to Michael's wife ( the beautiful Kate Beckinsale ) and two kids ( Joseph Castanon and Tatum McCann ) . Sean Astin has a bit role here as a swimming coach , and there are plenty of " vase " babes in this movie , like Sophie Monk ( Date Movie ) Fans of The Cranberries will also be pleased when a beautiful ballad from the band is played , and Dolores O'Riordan actually made an appearance too performing Linger . And by the time that happens , some in the audience would already be standing by , or using tissues already . Click managed to keep its entire second , more serious act under wraps in the trailers , but when revealed in the movie , provided a more layered , adult theme in this comedy which makes one wonder , have you told your family you love them today ?
A Nutshell Review : The Incredible Hulk	The crowded streets and cluttered housing on the streets of Rio De Janeiro provided some reminiscence of Jackie Chan's Police Story , where you could be sure of a chase scene zig - zagging the streets to take advantage of the wonderful opportunities presented for an exhilarating chase . And Leterrier doesn't try not to provide action junkies plenty of action - smashing moments as we root for Bruce Banner to hulk up , unfortunately of course , to satisfy our lust for some unadulterated action where everything in the way of the Hulk , gets smashed . However those expecting action from the get go will be disappointed , as there were only a small handful of action sequences , though of course they include the classic moments that comic fans had been baying for since 4 years ago . So I guess most will be left happy as we see some nifty moves by the Hulkster , which will leave a smile on your face , despite being used in limited doses . But I note though that the story cum action , looked a little bit like Superman II with the seeking of a cure and the deliberate loss of power to be with the lady love , and the duking out between super-beings on equal footing ( here being gamma-powered ) , with a tinge of Cloverfield like moments too . While there will be those who will gripe about the transformation mainly done in the dark and in shadows , it does prove to be effective in building some anticipation and heigntened tension as to when he will finally appear in full glory . The mainly military attacks on the big guy again brought out some back to basics adversary with Thunderbolt Ross trying to capture the Hulk , and in fact I'd appreciate that this movie didn't divert too much away from this primary objective , although it might be more of the same from the first movie . But while the Hulk has an aura of invulnerability , somehow The Incredible Hulk provided me at least , an emotional pang when he gets hurt bad , as we remember that this is a guy who just plainly wants to be left alone . And the angrier the Hulk gets , the bigger and more powerful he becomes too . And it's not all serious here too , with well meaning humour peppered in the right places , making numerous references to the television series and characters from the Marvel universe . You'd often wonder how his pants stay on before-during-and-after transformation , well , it gets addressed here with humour . Memorable ines such as " don't - make - me - angry - you - wouldn't - like - me - when - I'm - angry " gets punned away , even the late Bill Bixby got a cameo , together with Lou Ferrigno who reprises his security guard role , and Stan Lee who's possibly in the most unmemorable cameo appearance ever . The much touted Tony Stark appearance will bring whoops of joy from newly converted fans of Robert Downey Jr , while I suspect in line with the rumoured Avengers movie , the universe now seemed more streamlined again with the references to SHIELD , and stupid me thinking that Mr Fantastic would somewhat be featured in this too . A WWII super soldier project and serum was referenced and formed the basis for Tim Roth's Emil Blonsky turned Abomination , but Captain America ? I'll leave that to you to find out . But what I really liked about The Incredible Hulk is not the action sequences , nor the references mentioned made . It was the central love story between Bruce Banner and Betty Ross . In Lee Ang's version , we don't see much of the romance between Bana and Connelly because the story didn't really call for it , save for a rescue scene , and at an in-juncture where the Hulk was stopped in his tracks by his lady love . And that was precisely the winner for me . The Hulk , for all his power and unstoppable rage , could be brought under control by his lady love , and that was used to great effect here . Beneath the green invulnerability lies the heart of a mild-mannered man who yearns to be with the love of his life , but unfortunately cannot due to the curse that Fate had brought upon him . Both Norton and Tyler managed to bring out this chemistry of lovers torned apart , one who can only admire the other from afar , and the other finally never wanting to let go of someone who had disappeared from her life for her own protection . And this version of Betty does sport a bit of a temper and feisty too , and is not really your classic damsel in distress . Granted that most supporting characters were rather one-dimensional , The Incredible Hulk somehow managed to straddle between its intense whack-all-destroy-all moments , and tender ones when the lovers are left alone to their own devices . As with the Marvel movies to date , the doors are left wide opened for follow ups and team-ups , and here there are no less than three avenues where the next story could develop further from , and sowed the seed for other movie franchises to be developed too . It drained a little bit from the cerebral department in order to amplify the romance , and let the action go into overdrive . HUlk Smash indeed , this time likely to make a huge dent at the box office , for fans and non-fans alike to be won over , just like how Iron Man did .
A Nutshell Review : Street Kings	So I continue my foray into the theatrical releases this week as a break from the Festival proceedings , and choosing Street Kings is a no brainer . It was in Speed that Keanu Reeves donned a Kevlar vest and a devil may care attitude to save a speeding bus from annihilation , and after that he's gone on to other blockbusters such as the Matrix trilogy and countless of other romance movies . Here , he revisits that action genre as a cop with questionable morals , and while some may gripe over his acting ability , I thought that he was given a role totally within his range - that of a clueless gunslinger who's caught up in a web of intrigue far greater than he can fathom . Based on a story James Ellroy , who gave us L . A . Confidential and Black Dahlia , we continue the tale about corrupt cop culture , and with director David Ayer at the helm , who delivered Harsh Times and wrote Training Day , there's some amount of credibility and expectation with these two powerhouses collaborating , and from my previous enjoyment of their earlier movies , thankfully , Street Kings delivered spot on , with hard hitting , uncompromising action coupled with violence without remorse , and a deep undercurrent brewing on the political angle within the police department as well . We get introduced to Reeves ' Detective Tom Ludlow of the LAPD , who in the first 10 minutes , we witness a classic Dirty Harry styled cop who lets his guns do the talking , and employs questionable tactics in getting the job done . And he gets off the hook easy because of his sterling reputation , and no doubt being given special treatment and protection from his direct boss Captain Jack Wander ( Forest Whitaker ) . Naturally it gets slowly revealed that the entire police team has plenty of skeletons in the closet , and while Wander may be the patriarch of the force , politicking his way to more power , he has his enforcer , Ludlow , at his side to straighten things up . And with corrupt cops come the probe by Internal Affairs , and here's where things start to get interesting , with potential moles , and doubtful loyalties being thrown around , and in the midst of it all is severe corruption , that it's nearly impossible to try and trust anyone around , more so when Chris Evan's Detective Paul Diskant gets thrown into the fray to investigate a case against Ludlow . For those who enjoy cop dramas , you'll be in for a real treat with the twists and turns , betrayals and double crossings , and when it comes down to the crunch , out comes the guns . But more importantly , it allows us to question just how much are we willing to sacrifice our moral ground , especially when revealing the truth will put us in bad light , or get us into trouble , and we're talking about trouble with a capital T , where innate self-preservation instincts will take over if we do not consciously make a conscientious decision to come clean . We can cover up , get people to cover up , or better yet , have someone in power to cover it up for you , but that only means you get sucked into a system , and it will continue to breed within you , for the worse . Street Kings is excellent stuff that blew me away ( caution : Fan Boy mode is on ) , and the ending sure is one of a kind , with the usual soliloquy , but one that really made you think on both sides of the equation - what one would do and say in order to save oneself , and how one can lie straight into the eye of another . It's classic black eat black , showing how deep the rot has permeated , and the ending just demonstrates that sometimes unorthodox methods work , but with a caution that there are always more powerful people out there who play others like pawns on a chessboard . Besides , it was nice to see Forest Whitaker getting into the rough and tumble of things after a rather docile role in Vantage Point .
A Nutshell Review : Billu	Billu Barber had already courted some controversy because some hairstylists protested that the term " Barber " was offensive . I don't understand it , but this meant the word has been dropped , and it's now known simply as " Billu " , still after its titular character . A remake of the Malayalam film " Katha Parayumpol " , Billu is one of those films that work because of its spot-on capturing of the ugliness and greed of man . It opens quite matter of factly with Billu , played by Irrfan Khan , a poor barber in s small village , being down to his last rupee , seeking help from an official knowing that he has to offer a bribe for a loan . Naturally he gets thrown out because of his frankness , and we slowly learn of Billu's immediate challenges - his barber business is down because the state of his shop is run-down , there's a trendier salon opened opposite his , electricity to his small house got cut because of his inability to pay , and the school principal is threatening to throw his kids out of school because the school fees are not forthcoming . And little does he know that his problems will multiply with the coming of a Bollywood film crew for a shoot in their village , turning his entire world as he knows topsy turvy just because he is a friend of India's mega-star , Sahir Khan ( incidentally , like the credits say , played by Shah Rukh Khan ) . This premise puts an interesting dilemma on Billu , because while he is a nobody and a would-be bankrupt , suddenly the village folk start to pay homage to him , from neighbours to rivals to the town's rich miser , because their degree of separation to Sahir Khan is now 2 , provided they think , that they had better try and " bribe " Billu by doing favours and giving charity to him , from provision of food , to an overhaul of his shop , so that they can get an opportunity to meet the mega-star up close and personal . To make things worse , Billu's motor-mouth kids and a wife who thought she could now impress the neighbours , start to craft stories of their association , and as we all know , word always get around in a misconstrued manner , thus something innocently said , becomes blown out of proportion . While sometimes the intent is based on perceived noble terms , like accepting the school's bursary in exchange for the star's presence in an anniversary celebration , making false promises puts a question mark on integrity , and worse , the effects are felt by Billu himself , for something that he did not boast about , or craft . My growing list of character actors I admire had included Irrfan Khan ever since I watched his role in The Namesake , and I felt he always had this regal presence , even for short roles such as that in The Darjeeling Limited and Slumdog Millionaire . Here , he brought out the down-to-earthness portrayal of a small village barber trying his best to etch a living and provide for his family , and feeling very out of place with all the unwanted attention showered upon him . We feel his dilemma instantly , as his worries come from it being a very long time since he and Sahir had met , and the unassuming man that he is , believes that he shouldn't impose himself on a friend from the past , in fear of having his friend think that he's clinging onto the coattails of his fame , or worse , to want to ask for favours , which many in the village expect him to do . Much of the film plays around the dilemma , of how people often impose their wishes onto you just because you have the facility to possibly grant their wishes , and rebuttals are often unheeded because people only want to hear what they want to hear , and worse , when assumptions are made . Suddenly you find enemies and casual acquaintances proclaiming themselves to be your new best friends , because of the benefit they can gain from such lip service . And nothing could be worse if these impositions turn out to be from family members - the kids want to meet their idol , and so does the wife ( played by Lara Dutta ) . How can one turn these requests down , when one takes on the role as provider ? Shah Rukh Khan looked like he had a field day playing a parody of himself , the film star who happened to share the exact same filmography as himself at that too . Although in a support role , his Sahir comes across as direct and no-nonsense , and having hordes of security and minders around him , makes one wonder who Billu , a man amongst thousands in a crowd , could somehow get him to notice , if it's true he is a friend in the first place ! But the role here offers the inevitable opportunity for some staple song-and-dance , and the filmmakers don't let up the chance to pair up SRK some of his more memorable co-stars such as Kareena Kapoor , Priyanka Chopra , and Deepika Padukone , with whom he bursts onto the scene in a futuristic setting for the song Love Mera Hit Hit , the start of Sahir's new movie which ironically is based on an alien's search for his long lost brother in a village . Billu turns out to be a superb balance between fun and an examination of a key negative human condition . I was pretty much entertained throughout , and thanks to the all round fine performances from the cast , Billu is very much enjoyable , and puts itself into the shortlist of one of the fine movies of the year thus far .
A Nutshell Review : Apocalypto	The passion of the predator braveheart blair witch fugitive gladiator who dances with wolves in the temple of doom . That in essence , is the summarized version of Mel Gibson's Apocalypto , written , produced and directed by the man himself ( see if you can spot the references above during various points in the movie ) . Following relative successes with Braveheart and Passion of the Christ , one of the first thing that strikes you is that Apocalypto brought over the violence and gore from those movies , and itself also a period piece , this time set in the Mayan civilization at its decline . It contains two different views , of the peaceful fun loving nature of simple villagers , versus the decadence of a race of people drunk on mindless religious fervour culminating in needless sacrifices , pitting one lifestyle against the other , turning a race against their own . For those who might not enjoy the movie , my guess is they were expecting Mayan Culture 101 . Sorry , wrong movie folks , even though the trailer might have suggested some deep profound thoughts and focus on a civilization now long gone . This is a movie about family and survival . Pure and simple . Jaguar Paw ( Rudy Youngblood ) is the William Wallace of the story , a man who finds himself against odds , struggling to survive in order to get back to the family he had to abandon , during the protection of the honour of his village against the Holcane Warriors , as we see how his life journeyed and paralleled that of an animal hunt featured in the very first scene . While the movie takes its time to establish characters , and despite the audience only getting glimpses of their names in the subtitles , somehow you'll still be able to identify and identify with them , maybe because the key cast are memorable . As soon as the action starts , it doesn't take its foot off the pedal , moving along at fanatical pace , and most times leaving you at the edge of your seat , despite being able to predict the outcome and certain details how it would have played out . It's all in the execution , and familiarity aside , they delivered . But it's not all just mindless action . Action with a powerful motif behind the violence , blood and gore , somewhat makes you root for Jaguar Paw as he claws his way out of the doldrums . One thing's for sure , never anger a family man , as even the Heavens smile and provide much needed luck . The movie is also sprinkled with themes about fear , and the power that it wields , and a subtle environmental message , which I thought mirrored Frank Herbert's Dune . James Horner's score added much mood to a movie which had little dialogue when the going gets rough , and relied on subtitles to translate the Mayan language on screen . But it goes to show that a movie doesn't require powerful dialogues in order to engage , so long as the score is able to evoke the right mood at the right moments , which Horner does wonderfully . The movie seldom betrays the fact that it's being shot in digital format , until those blair - witch up close facial expression shots hints at the crispness and lack of a distinct film look . Most of the actors here are rookies , but the ensemble together worked wonders . They make you believe , the heroes make you cheer , and the villains will make you hiss and spit . Given his charisma , we might see Rudy Youngblood in more roles , and I thought that he would make an engaging action hero , which the Hollywood of today is in woefully need of . I'd say Mel Gibson hasn't disappointed with the films he directed , and I don't see how Apocalypto wouldn't be enjoyed by the masses here . But I'd predict its chances at the Oscars would have been diminished by Gibson's drunken rant . A pity , for a film like this .
A Nutshell Review : March of the Emperor	This film is a celebration of life , love , danger and death , as seen through the eyes of Emperor Penguins in the Antarctica . Most people will come to know of this documentary from its quiet successful ascension on the American Box Office . For those who do not want to know the story , you may skip this part SPOILERS START We follow the penguins in their annual ritual in making life , beginning with long marches on ice to their mating ground . There , there look for their partners , and begin their " one night stand " . The eggs are laid , and the moms go off to gather food their future chicks , while the dads stay behind to look after the eggs and shield them from the cold . When the chicks hatch , the moms will have returned , and begin their feeding , while it's dads turn to go fish . It's like an interchanging of roles between mom and dad in taking care of the little one , until such time when they've grown and can hit the ocean waters to begin their own life . SPOILERS END 3 different narrators tell the story from different perspectives - the father , mother and child , Peppered throughout and assisting the narrative are the English songs ( in a French movie , which seemed a bit odd ) , and the stunning cinematography will leave many speechless . You will ponder at the wonders of nature and life itself , with these penguins undergoing their rituals and knowing exactly what to do during certain times . Instinct ? Probably . The theme of Danger and Death lurks at every corner , ever ready to pounce . As in the movie , you'll never know when to expect when Death strikes , though most of the violence happen off screen , and probably not as violent as what you can view on the Discovery Channel . It's a refreshing change to watch a documentary during this busy August and fall in love with the penguin chicks . I know many in the audience did .
A Nutshell Review : Citizen Dog	Oh my , I love this movie so much , and I'm wondering where should my gushing start from . Director Wisit Sasanatieng has weaved yet another beautiful film in terms of visuals in this romance-fantasy story , and it's not difficult to see the progression and retention of the plus points made from his earlier feature Tears of the Black Tiger . Perhaps first the storyline . It's quirky and bizarre , fit for a fairy tale like structure in terms of narrative style . Yet at the same time it's uplifting , inspirational and provides plenty of hope . Key to the plot is the aged old saying that when you're always looking for something , you'll never find it , but once you stopped searching , it'll appear right in front of you . This will be the central theme throughout the movie , at times made up of seemingly separate segments touching on the different lives that our hero Pod ( Mahasamut Boonyaruk ) encounters . Many of the bizarreness of the city are seen through the innocent eyes of Pod , a country bumpkin who left his country home to journey to Bangkok in search for a better life . And it's a pretty pastel coloured world , adding a surreal sense to all the happenings in Pod's life , throughout his work as a packer in a sardine factory , a security guard , and a taxi driver . In a number of decisions that he makes , he does it for his love , Jin ( Saengthong Gate - Uthong ) , who works as a maid in the same company . Jin , an obsessive compulsive with cleanliness , however , is the pragmatist , and doesn't think that their current financial status would allow them to lead a comfortable life together . Hence it's a constant pursuit for Pod , as Jin gets very sidetracked with her aims in life - as an environmental activist as well as to find out the true meaning of her mysterious white book . Narrated by fellow Thai filmmaker Pen-Ek Ratanaruang , the opening credits played to an addictive song , signals that it's one heck of a ride . There are plenty of endearing , funny , and kooky characters that populate the city . from a young girl who smokes and swears , a licker , a taxi-motorcyclist , and even Pod's Grandmother all make this dream-like Bangkok , something worth highlighting . There are loads of wonderful songs included to help move the narrative along , since dialogue by the leads , especially in the beginning , is kept to a minimum . There are plenty of special effects and techniques used to complement the beautiful , colourful cinematography , and even animation and stop motion puppetry were used to bring some characters to life . The art direction too is top notch , and the sets are always a sight to behold . The jokes come fast and furious , and mostly through the playing out of the innocence and dreams of Pod , literal as well as figural , as he tries to make sense of this new world he lives in . This is a highly recommended movie , and I think I'll try to look for its DVD . Wisit Sasanatieng is currently at the helm of a ( locally funded ? ) production called Armful , and going by his track record , I sure would be interested to see his spin on a martial arts movie .
A Nutshell Review : Hairspray	Teenager Tracy Turnblad ( Nikki Blonsky ) has a dream , and that is to join a group of hip teenagers in a dance programme on television called the Corny Collins ( James Marsden ) Show , especially when she has a crush on the show's heartthrob Link ( Zac Efron ) . But as you know , despite being pleasant , blessed with a good voice and groove , possessing a wonderful never-say-die attitude and positive demeanour , television's all about glamour , and being plump means she's out of place , especially for TV producer Velma Von Tussle ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) who sees her as a constant thorn undermining her and her engineered-for-success daughter Amber ( Brittany Snow ) . Given the loads of song , dance , music that you can shake your booty too , Hairspray is right up my alley . I can't seem to recall having seen the original 1988 movie ( though the songs do ring familiar ) , nor watched the musical , but I guess it doesn't matter unless you want to be picky and start comparing . On its own , Hairspray has all the ingredients that continues the now-tapering tradition of Hollywood made musicals , with a surprisingly star studded cast who seem to get ample time to showcase both their dancing feet and vocal prowess . And to sum it up , it's almost perfect as an entertaining musical . But what worked into this breezy light hearted film , are serious themes on race relations and society's obsession with being thin . Hairspray's set in the 60s , where segregation in American society still reared its ugly head , where in a television programme , white folks don't mix with " coloured folks " , and in a seemingly progressive move , a " Negro Day " is set aside in the programme schedule for non-Whites to perform in . Tracy Tumbald , as a character , seeks in her earnestness to break down those barriers , of course with tacit support from Corny Collins ( who though may seem is doing it for the ratings ? ) . Being sentenced to detention class also made it quite clear that Tracy's one of the rare white folk who gets sent , though her interactions with the RnB hip hoppers , proved to be fruitful . And weight obsession provided for some cheap laughs in the beginning , slowly made way to acceptance , and hey , girl power , whatever size they may be . Much has been said about John Travolta's comeback to the musical genre after his ever successful 1978 musical Grease , as Danny Zuko . Here , Travolta dons a fat suit and gets casted in the opposite sex as Tracy's mom Edna , and I think he did a great job , still showing he has the moves and the singing voice , despite it being almost 30 years coming back to the genre . While the novelty of donning the fat suit isn't new , it's still Travolta , and there are moments when you'll cringe , especially when husband Wilbur Turnblad ( Christopher Walken ) gets all lovey-dovey with her . Walken is fantastic as well , despite the relatively short screen time , singing and dancing ( he did the music video for Fatboy Slim's Weapon of Choice ) opposite Travolta and Grease ( 2 actually , and Batman Returns ) alumni Michelle Pfeiffer . It's been a while since we last saw Pfeiffer on screen , and this year we see her taking on two roles ( including this one ) where she plays the antagonist ( the other movie being Stardust ) . She still looks great though , despite her age , and wearing that red slinky dress , brings back memories of her heating up the screen with her sultry moves and singing voice way back in the Fabulous Baker Boys . Screen daughter Brittany Snow ( John Tucker Must Die ) does a complete evil-Barbie role here , while Amanda Bynes was a hoot as the wide eyed and naive in the cute and ditzy dumb role of Tracy's best friend Penny Pingleton , who actually goes against the grain ( of the times ) with her inter-racial romance . Rounding up the cast of notables include Queen Latifah and Elijah Kelly , but in a real act of reel emulating real , or real emulating reel , the discovery and coup casting will be newcomer Nikki Blonsky . Somehow she exudes this lovable charisma that you can't help but fall in love with her and her character . She bursts into the movie full of energy , just like her character did , and Hairspray provided the perfect platform for her to showcase her singing and dance talent . To sum up in two simple words , " she rocks " , and her chemistry with Travolta as daughter-err-mother , was simply irresistible . Hairspray's full of wacky fun despite its tackling of serious themes , has memorable songs and great chemistry amongst the cast , who look like they all had a good time making this musical . And it's a very enjoyable movie where you feel plenty of positivity exuding when the end credits start to roll . Highly recommended , one of the best musicals to have come out of Hollywood in recent years !
A Nutshell Review : Batman Begins	No disrespect to Tim Burton , but Batman Begins blows away ALL the previous films , even Burton's . This is THE Batman film to date , and though Christopher Nolan did take some creative liberties on certain issues ( i . e . deviate from canon ) , he managed to distill the essence of the character ( make that all the characters ) and put it into one 140min film . Excellent ! Some liberties stem from the flashback scenes of the Wayne murders . The Wayne family didn't actually watch an opera , it was a trip to the movies - " The Mask of Zorro " , and Joe Chill , while accurately portrayed as the killer , and was after the pearl necklace ( I shuddered when Thomas Wayne showed Bruce that item ) , Chill was never caught , and neither was he killed when leaving the courtroom . I suppose this was the major liberty taken , but I was felt OK with it . But what Nolan did to hit the head on the nail was to explore to some depth the history of the Wayne Family's involvement in Gotham City , from the railway track beneath the Cave , to the philantrophy of the family to their city . Good research done ! The film runs in three acts , with the first being his training with the League of Shadows and flashbacks of his childhood days . It is during this training that sets Bruce / Batman's principle of never taking a life . And he doesn't . Therefore kudos to Chris Nolan . The Batman just doesn't kill , and neither does he use guns . The next act is where the fun begins , as Bruce sets out his journey to rid Gotham of its criminal underworld . Classic scenes include the lone bat appearing in Bruce's room ( thus his decision to dress as one ) , and the " exploration " of Wayne Enterprises with Lucius Fox to obtain his gear ( hence the advance technology ) . Nolan teases the audience for an hour with all the preparation , before the Batman appears . It is dark , mysterious , and the action is fast . Some may complain that you " cannot see anything " , but I would like to point out that's how Batman operates - swiftly and stealthily . He doesn't stand around ! The anticipation of the baddies for his appearance all the more bumps up expectations , and it succeeds , to the pulsating score by Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard . In particular , I liked the way Batman interrogated his victims - exactly like the comic books ! You never saw this in any of the earlier films ! I was like , hell yeah , that's exactly how it's done ! And the last act is where everything comes together - the action and the finale battle . Again , classic scenes were featured , like Gordon's collaboration with Batman , and Bat's trust in him , the very Year One scene of Bats against the SWAT team , and activating a signal to bring his backup of bats to assist in escape ( though the scene in the film has changed to Arkham Asylum ) , and a Year One ending , which sets up a teaser for the sequel ( I hope it happens ! ) Fear is the running theme throughout - Bruce Wayne's fear of bats after accidentally discovering the Batcave beneath Wayne Manor , Gothamites ' fear of the criminal underworld , Dr Jonathan Crane / Scarecrow's use of Fear as a weapon . The effects of the latter is fascinating to watch because of the effective use of CGI , as we see the victim's fear come alive . Fans of the comics will get kicks from seeing serial killer Victor Zsas , and though it was somewhat a cameo appearance , he was given respect , unlike Bane's treatment under the hands of Joel Schumacher . We also got a glimpse of Gordon's wife Barbara and kid James Jr , and a mention of Ra's wife , and his reminiscence of her . Although the Lazarus Pit was never mentioned , we'd probably know it could have been , given what progressed in the movie . Many " bat-toys " in this film are born out of necessity rather than to sell more merchandise , which I though was excellent story telling . From his harness to his suit to the utility belt ( finally , a working model ! ) , to the cape ( which doubles up as a glider ) and of course to The Tumbler which would be the bat mobile . And judge not a book by its cover . While the first appearance of this vehicle caused many fans to shake their heads in disbelief , watch this film and you see it being used in full glory - it ROCKS ! There's also a running joke on how the vehicle was described - from " it's a . . . a . . . tank ! " to " it's black . . . you'll know it when you see it " Incidentally or otherwise , I felt this film also paid homage to Burton's films , ( spoiler : with the rescue-the-girl-in-bat mobile - race - to - cave - give - her - cure - send - her - home scene , and the discovery of Bat's identity though re-using dialogue that only the lovers know ) I give the thumbs up to casting Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne / Batman . He brought out the reluctance of living the double life ( as the playboy , though he really hammed it up ! ) , his need to getting used to late nights and morning alibis , and the tenacity and menace as the Dark Knight . Michael Caine IS Alfred Pennyworth - the never failing butler and surrogate father who never gave up hope on Bruce while delivery witty sarcasms , and his belief in the Wayne Family , Gary Oldman brought James Gordon into life and gave him the depth we are accustomed to in the comics ( unlike earlier Pat Hingle versions ) . In summary , the casting was excellent , and everyone ( except for Ken Watanabe ) were given ample screen time to flesh their characters . I'll be ready for a sequel , and I hope that the box office numbers will bring it on soon enough ! My wish list will be ( apart from the obvious villain ) to feature Harvey Dent , as they will definitely need a new District Attorney . If the sequel features this " trinity " of Gordon-Bats-Dent ( and the prospect of Dent becoming Two-Face ) , I'll be in Bat Cloud Number Nine !
A Nutshell Review : Nanking	If I am going to recommend a documentary , then Nanking will be it . The Rape of Nanking just prior to World War II is examined in this film , which contains real stock footage of clips smuggled out of China during the time of Japanese occupation . Interviews with surviving Chinese victims , and a number of Japanese Imperial Army soldiers who took part in the campaign , are conducted by the filmmakers , and it is always chilling to learn from them first hand , on their respective perspective of those horrible years of the Japanese invasion of China . You will definitely squirm at the tearful , vivid recollection of atrocities from rapes , shootings , knifing from bayonets , and even burning , while the archive clips bring to screen scenes and pictures of such barbaric acts . Tales of plundering , looting , the forceful taking away of young men to be shot and young girls or boys , children even , for brutal rape , are told with an unflinching eye . In fact , nothing is re-enacted in this film , opting instead for actors ( such as Woody Harrelson , Mariel Hemmingway and Michelle Krusiec ) to portray real historical characters and only as narrators of their personal diaries and memoirs of their stay in Nanking during the invasion and subsequent occupation . While the rest of the world stood by and did nothing , a handful of foreigners who opted to stay in the city , did what they could by organizing themselves and setting up a Safety Zone for the Chinese refugees , using all the power that they could ( which was very little , save for the fact that they are foreigners ) to protect their charges from the looting , plundering , killing and rape that takes place on a regular basis outside their zone . And it is indeed this Zone which had saved thousands of lives , that this documentary paid a sort of tribute to . If this is an anti-war picture , then I'd say it would have done a very good job , highlighting the immense amount of evil that man is capable of inflicting on fellow man . Even up until today , the Massacre of Nanjing is still hotly debated , especially on the number of unfortunate casualties and victims , and the enshrinement of war criminals which have irked the Chinese .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) A World Without Thieves ( 2004 )	A world without thieves is close to impossible , at least not in our modern world where there are those who covert what others have , and given no means of obtaining those items legitimately , seek the easier way out and give in to temptation . But there are those who naively think that such an utopia is possible , perhaps given their simple background , and their trusting nature to not see the evils of man . Sha Gen the Dumbo ( Wang Baoqiang ) is one such person , who declares and openly challenges , on a crowded passenger platform to would-be ( and to himself , non existent ) thieves , that he has RMB60K on him . Andy Lau and Rene Liu play Wang Bo and Wang Li respectively , a Bonnie and Clyde styled couple whose profession is to profit from conning and thievery . They're skilled pickpockets , and in a scene set in a temple , we see what Wang Bo is capable of with his deft hands armed only with a thin razor . Things don't go down well for the couple as Wang Li decides to forgo the partnership and go legit , for fear of karmic retribution . As such , she takes it on herself to look after the kind hearted Dumbo , and what could Wang Bo do except to go along , even though he's secretly harbouring thoughts on that 60K cash package . But like the adage of washing your hands in the golden basin , their will and skills are put to the test when Uncle Li ( Ge You ) and his band of merry thieves which include Lam Ka Tung as Four Eyes and Li Bingbing as Leaf , board the same train , and constantly poke and probe for opportunities to succeed in fleecing Dumbo like a helpless sheep when his guardian wolves are less than alert . It's a classic cat and mouse game , with each side displaying their fangs as they encircle their prey , with the prey none the wiser to the drawing of territorial lines . It's not very often in recent times that you have a movie set for the most parts on board a train , and good ones at that , unless you pass the likes of Steven Seagal's Under Siege 2 . The first Mission : Impossible movie had a great action sequence , Bollywood's Dil Se featured an awesome dance on the roof of a moving train , and The Darjeeling Limited and Before Sunrise had great conversations , but I'd dare say Feng Xiaogang bested them all with this movie . It's not difficult then to say that I've enjoyed this movie , having seen his Banquet and Assembly , both of which I had liked , and I guess his works are now on my watchlist . But it's not all claustrophobic in having everything set on a train . There were ample opportunities for lush cinematography to accentuate the beautiful vast lands that China has , although at some points to allow for action sequences , some of them had to be superimposed instead . Don't let that mar your enjoyment though , as the effects were pretty much nicely done , on par with what you'd come to expect with movies made in Hollywood . But the characterization here takes priority as well in moving the story forward , especially with Andy Lau's character caught in the crossroads of listening to his heart , as well as figuring out the intentions behind the admiration from a grandmaster thief . And Ge You , if you'd think his portrayal in the Banquet was one-dimensional , you should see him in action here , with his various disguises , and his silent charisma shining through , chewing up almost every scene he comes in . It's little wonder that he's a frequent feature in the films of Feng Xiaogang , and I look forward to his next with the director , starring opposite yet another Chinese thespian in Jiang Wen . Rene Liu had great chemistry with Andy Lau and thus made their couple character quite believable in their love for each other , as well as the conflict of ideals that they face which put a strain in their relationship . The only gripe I have will be that some of the fleecing scenes were shot in too close up a manner , but it sort of emphasizes on the blink and you miss sensibilities that these crooks have to capitalize on in order to practice their trade . And that of course presents itself as a perfect opportunity to rewatch this wonderful movie again . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Tokyo Godfathers ( 2003 )	I've never been a really huge fan of Japanese animation , but Satoshi Kon's Paprika , shown here in last year's Animation Nation festival , is a different story , and opened up my eyes altogether . It was richly animated with plenty of striking details , an eclectic soundtrack , and a story which cuts at many levels . It's adult , not filled with cutesy pictures for the sake of luring kids in , but yet filled with a childlike appeal in its entire work . And I've taken the first step into watching more of his works . Tokyo Godfathers retains much of the very sharp , detailed animation , and certainly some scenes looked photo quality . While Paprika was rooted with more science-fictional elements and dream sequences , Tokyo Godfathers has a relatively more down to earth premise , taking a hard look at the lives of the homeless in shiny Tokyo . Set in the Christmas period , it's full of dark elements in the holiday season , yet filled with plenty of hope and goodwill as we see the characters develop and the plot unfold . The story centers around three homeless folks - Gin ( Toru Emori ) the middle aged drunk gambler bum , Hana ( Yoshiaki Umegaki ) the transvestite , and Miyuki ( Aya Okamoto ) , the youngest of the lot , a girl who ran away from home . One day during their usual bickering , they discovered an abandoned female infant , whom they named Kiyoko , in a garbage dump . Reluctantly , they endeavoour to track down the infant's parents to return the baby , as well as to give them a stern reprimand for doing their dastardly deed over the season of goodwill . And thus their road trip in and around Tokyo begins . What holds your attention , is the way our trio encounters mini episodes of adventure in their quest , ranging from meeting up with a real Godfather , to slowly unravelling their back stories , which I find both touching and believable , and more so for an animated picture . The craft in the narrative is superb , which you can enjoy at face value , or if you bother , to dig below the surface and discover such joys in its detailed story . It doesn't have to explain everything , and allows you to draw your own conclusions at certain points . And I can't stress enough at the attention to details . Be it conversational dialogue , an object , a supporting character , or the backgrounds , you can't imagine at how they all blend together effortlessly to elicit such joy when you realize that you've uncovered something of some significance , or was put there just for laughs . With such care put into the movie , I can't help but to recommend this , and for myself to continue my own quest in tracking down and watching the rest of Satoshi Kon's animated movies . Code 1 DVD contains minimal extras . There are plenty of preview trailers though , for movies such as Astro Boy , Cowboy Bebop The Movie , Cyborg 009 , Memories , Metropolis , Returner , Steamboy , and even one for Tokyo Godfathers itself . The only other extra is a 22 minute making of featurette , which included shots from its New York premiere , as well as interviews with Satoshi Kon , and the principle cast sharing their experience in lending their voices to an animated movie . Subtitles are available in English , Spanish and Portuguese for the movie and the making of featurette , but the French subtitles are available for the movie only .
A Nutshell Review : My Magic	There's plenty of buzz overseas surrounding Eric Khoo's latest movie My Magic , which has recently been selected as Singapore's official entry to the 2009 Oscars in the foreign language film category , hence the rush to have it screened this month to qualify . While his previous effort Be With Me was disqualified on a technicality in the same category ( they really timed the amount of English or lack thereof in the film ! ) , this time round Eric has crafted a movie in Tamil as the story tells of the love-hate relationship between an Indian father and son . I don't recall any recent Tamil feature films being made in Singapore , save perhaps for the segment in Wee Li Lin's Gone Shopping , and in the upcoming Salawati , so this marks a first that race and language didn't become barriers , but celebrated that a filmmaker can transcend these issues or capitalize on what is uniquely Singapore given that universal themes apply anywhere . For a father-son story , the last which I enjoyed was Patrick Tam's After This Our Exile , but of course this is a different story and setting altogether . In the spirit of magic , the film sets up The Pledge , where a down and out man Francis ( Bosco Francis ) opens the film with repetitive drinking , without any money to pay and picks up a fight at a bar . He wanders around in his drunken state and stumbles home each night , expecting his young son ( Jathisweran ) to pick up after him . The son naturally resents his noisy father , whom he thinks is good for nothing , having to fend for himself in school , touting his services completing homework for peers for a fee . This kid has got plenty of growing up to do , and despite his young age , you can feel and sense his maturity despite his small , mild-mannered frame . The Turn comes when Francis realizes that should he continue his wayward behaviour , he would be losing his son , and in order to step up his role as a father and sole caregiver , he has to find meaningful work within his abilities , and here it becomes a showcase for Francis to demonstrate some of the much touted Bizarre Magic , where he sells his act to a paying club owner . We get to see the more gentle tricks like the renowned " Flaming Wallet " and simple ones like disappearing acts , before we go into dangerous ones like fire eating , and the slight dalliance into torture porn territory like Hostel , when demands get higher and riskier for bigger economic returns , selling his soul for the physical pleasures of man , exemplified by the Chinese bosses of the club . For the Prestige , you must be nuts to think I were to reveal it . Suffice to say that the movie is not about magic tricks per se , or being too bizarre that it alienates its audience or make you go into deep ponder . Mee Pok Man has such moments , as does 12 Storeys with the incessant chatter of the old lady , but as Eric Khoo professed , this is a simple story , and I'd like to think of it as that too , so much so that a potential subplot that could have developed deeply with Francis showing kindness to a stranger ( Grace Kalaiselvi ) didn't go beyond my understanding that a fresh friendship has been struck . Much of the magic here , came from the performance and chemistry between Bosco Francis and Jathisweran as father and son . Francis is not always uncaring or drunken , and the story does provide room to show a rare sober state that the son would probably have enjoyed such presence a lot more . Their home is sparse yet cluttered in pockets around , in parallel to the seemingly empty interactions the characters engage in , but yet having insurmountable complexities in the relationship between them . And I suppose it's typical of Asian fathers to be somewhat reserved in their expression of love and care to their children , as per Francis ' hard and punishing work away from the view of his son , understanding his need to provide and never one proud to exclaim his efforts when he coughs out wads of dough . There are some nice cameos and supporting appearances here , some of whom are Eric Khoo movie regulars . Seet Keng Yew , who played a shy security guard in Be With Me admiring his unattainable love from afar , plays Big Boss , silent almost throughout the movie , but hiding some intense masochistic tendencies . Blink and you'll miss him , Lim Poh Huat who starred opposite Seet , cameos here as a cleaner in a club . But the one supporting role that caught my attention , was Sunny Pang . While he has starred in previous local independent productions like Perth and Lucky 7 with speaking lines , here he silences himself , and lets his hands do the talking . That one-hand-wooden-rod-twirl probably affirmed my belief that his film-in-production Knife , would be one heck of a movie to keep tabs on , and I hope that it does get made soon . Making its rounds in the overseas festival circuit , the largest of all being Cannes where it becomes Singapore's first competitive entry for the Palme d'Or , the film will also makes its debut at the Tokyo International Film Festival next month . With a little bit of luck I may just bump into lead actor and real life magician Bosco Francis as he's scheduled to make an appearance there , and bring you some of the lowdown on how the screening went over at the land of the rising sun . If you're still curious about Eric Khoo films but are apprehensive about the art house essence , My Magic will surprise you at how simple and accessible it is , yet retaining its quality to resonate and move . You don't need big action or big drama , all you need is plenty of heart , and this film has loads of it . Recommended stuff !
A Nutshell Review : Death at a Funeral	Funerals are serious business , where the mood is usually grim and sombre , and friends and family come together to commemorate the passing of their loved one . The proceeding is usually prim and proper , with some protocols to adhere to , for fitting tributes given in a dignified manner . Death at a Funeral however , is a delightfully wicked black comedy of everything that can go wrong in a funeral . Daniel ( Matthew Macfadyen ) is preparing for the funeral of his dad , but my , there are so many things on his plate , such as bring trusted to provide the eulogy rather than his brother Robert ( Rupert Graves ) , who is a best selling author , and having his wife constantly remind him about their deposit for their new home . With the gathering of family and friends , expect the bizarre to happen , and it involves around , and this is not exhaustive , meeting the new prospective father-in-law when you're high on hallucinogens ( Alan Tudyk in a scene stealing role here ) , a perpetually missing bottle of " Valium " , a pastor who's in a hurry , an old senile uncle with a foul mouth , and a 4 foot tall stranger who seems to have a very shocking secret to reveal should he not get his way . There are multiple plot elements here all perfectly linked together like a well oiled stage play , and resolved in very satisfying outcome . As a comedy , there are the big moments that are played out just for laughs , but what is commendable , is how it managed to sustain that laughter throughout the movie . It's not just laugh out loud moments , but little chuckles sprinkled along the way that had brought out smiles . And as you would already come to expect from a British production , the movie contains superb individual spoken lines that you would have to listen attentively to ( and deserves repeat watching ) , but at the same time doesn't give you an inkling of a feeling that it's only for the linguistically-skilled , because hey , it does enjoy that occasionally toilet humour as well ! If you're in need for a good laugh , then Death at a Funeral is a crystal clear choice this week !
A Nutshell Review : The Simpsons Movie	I'm a big , big fan of the Simpsons , and word that the movie version of the hit TV series would be made had been out for the longest time possible . Toying between trying to cast actors in a life-action movie ( rumoured at one point to have Bruce Willis playing Homer because of the err , balding pate ) , and sticking to its 2D version of yellow skin and four fingers on each hand , I'm glad that the movie was done in the latter version , simply because casting will be a nightmare to flesh out the inhabitants of Springfield , and 2D allows for many insane jokes and situations to be played out without reliance on CGI and the likes . And it paid off big time , and well worth the extremely long wait . While the movie version of the Simpsons might seem like an extended version of a typical animated episode on TV , this is everything you'd come to expect , and more ! I won't spoil the movie's plot in my review , but suffice to say our favourite family is back for more madcap adventures , and being in a feature length movie allowed for the characters emote more than what we see on TV . There's some room here for some serious character development , especially Marge , Bart and even Lisa entering a new phase of her life , while Homer is , well , being just Homer . With plenty of sight gags , inside jokes , not too subtle jabs at the big summer movies this year like Spider-man and Harry Potter , it's incredibly hard not to laugh every few seconds for the keen eyed viewer , or guffaw at the dialogue or classic Simpsons styled comedy we've come to enjoy from the series . The fast and furious nature the laughs get delivered is bound to keep fans delighted , and win over those who are watching the family and the Springfield folks for the very first time . You just can't get enough of the voice talents of Dan Castellaneta , Julie Kavner , Nancy Cartwright , Yeardley Smith , Harry Shearer and Hank Azaria , as well as a whole host of cameo voices as they embark on 90 minutes of pure entertainment . If you've just survived a hard day's work , The Simpsons Movie is almost guaranteed to chase those blues away . Stay throughout the end credits , where you'll be entertained by more clips near the beginning , the middle , and right at the end of the credits roll , played to the tune of some of the most insane songs ever written . This is the best Simpsons movie . . . so far ! Bring on a sequel already , D'oh !
A Nutshell Review : This Film Is Not Yet Rated	The Motion Pictures Association of America's ratings system comes under scrutiny in this documentary . The judgement that movies are given G , PG-13 , R or NC17 are taken a look into , as its deemed quite biased and with great mystery that films are rated based on some arbitrary criteria , from a group of chosen anonymous few in highly non-transparent means . It's quite fun as director Kirby Dick digs into the system to try and look for answer , with hilarious results , especially when dealing with the bureaucracy . In particular , the main gripe here is how films are given the NC17 rating . Films are compared with each other , and it seemed that the board is more tolerant towards violence than sex , or in particular , female pleasure . Filmmakers like Darren Aronofsky , Kimberly Peirce , Atom Egoyan are interviewed for their views on the system , and reveal their puzzlement at the situation too . I thought This Film Is Not Yet Rated brought out the hypocrisy of the entire system , that " absolute power corrupts absolutely " , that if Kirby Dick is to believed , then there are rules and regulations set which have been breached , especially on transparency , and the primary concern that the raters should be independent and not influenced by filmmakers , studios and the likes . I also enjoyed the entire investigations and social engineering techniques , including things like dumpster diving and impersonation , and exploiting the innate nature of man to want to help out strangers in distress , even though they are anonymous over the phone , and are " nice " . You've got to salute their perseverance , all to get to the results of unravelling the mystery being those secret raters of movies , and those on the Appeals board that filmmakers can go to for redress . The bits of animation in the movie , combined with the sharp no-holds barred revelation and hypothesis and snippets of movies which suffered the NC17 rating , made this a very enjoyable , smart and fun documentary to sit through , especially when it delivers sucker punch after sucker punch at establishment , and makes a mockery of the powers that be .
A Nutshell Review : Paprika	Adapted from a science fiction novel by Yatsutaka Tsutsui , Paprika is probably my favourite film from this year's Animation Nation . The closing film ( technically , since it's the last film to be screened tomorrow ) , it is one heck of a thrill ride , and will definitely engage an audience at different levels . In contrast to the dark doom and gloom hanging over Paris 2054 in Renaissance , Paprika at first glance is surprisingly light hearted and colourful , though it has its fare share of gloom and probably has darker themes which unfold as the story progresses . It's central plot revolves around a futuristic method of psychotherapy with the aid of a newly created invention known as the " DC Mini " , which is a device that probes into the annals of your brainwaves , and allows the doctor to analyze and diagnose problems which surface in your subconscious . Until the device is stolen that is , and it's up to our key project team members to try and contain the situation , prevent the device from falling into the wrong hands and get abused , and in essence , investigate the loss , with the help of fellow patient detective Kogawa Toshimi . In some ways , the movie's storyline resembles a bit like the Matrix movies ( which of course , borrows from Japanese anime ) , in having the hero the champion of both worlds - the real one , and inside the artificially created one . surviving in both with the adoption of different personas . Here , our heroine is Dr Chiba Atsuko , who in her alter ego as Paprika , is able to traverse through the dreamworld with great ease . There are plenty of stuff happening in almost every scene , and some might deem it a little " noisy " with so much to see , but so little time on screen . However , never for a moment does it feel very cluttered , and I am still pleasantly pleased at how so much story can be compacted into a nifty 90 minutes , without compromising on quality . Despite the dark themes in the movie , there are a number of light hearted moments which seem to punctuate the movie at the right places , no doubt most coming from the characters of Tokita the DC Mini creator , and Detective Kogawa in his ( in ) ability and slow enlightenment to the entire scheme of things , nevermind a dark subplot solely focused on his character alone . At another level , it explores much about our dreams , and how within them , we can be who we want to be , but yet all comes to naught once we wake up from it . What if we're given the ability to merge both the real world and the dream world . Then what would become of life as we know ? Will it be utter chaos when dreams and desire start to run amok ? Full of vibrant colours and energy , Paprika is just about everything that you would expect from an excellent piece of animation . A story that makes your brain work at figuring out what's happening on screen , yet doesn't allow such mysteries presented to stifle your concentration on what's going on next . A hauntingly mesmerizing soundtrack . Beautiful art pieces from background sets to character design so detailed . And with so much on screen at any one time , it definitely seeks a second viewing to truly appreciate and take in everything . Director Satoshi Kon has made a fan out of me with this movie , and I think , if time and money permits , I'll be hunting down some of the earlier works , if this is any indication whether I'll enjoy them to bits . Paprika will be shown tomorrow during the Animation Nation festival's closing , but I hear that tickets are already sold out ( I bought mine on the first day when the tickets were out on sale ) . I do think there should be a general release , so keep your fingers crossed !
A Nutshell Review : If You Are The One	I'm a keen admirer of versatile Chinese director Feng Xiaogang and am a fan of his films , which covers quite a vast range from War ( The Assembly ) , Period martial arts ( The Banquet ) , and a good old thriller in World Without Thieves , amongst others in his filmography . I've yet to watch something that had disappointed , and his latest romantic drama If You Are The One starring long time collaborator Ge You and Shu Qi , proves to be yet another understated film that deserves a larger audience , if not for the limited number of screens ( two only ) in Singapore . Ge You plays Qin Fen , whom we are introduced as a one-time inventor of a product called the Conflict Resolution Tool , which got sold to a venture capitalist for millions . With his new found wealth , he decided to focus on settling down , and follows the recent trend of finding a suitable companion over the internet . Here's where the humour comes in , not in slapstick fashion , but through the earnest ways he presents himself with honesty , starting from his online profile which lists a number of his ordinary points quite upfront . Ge You is again at his element here , and he continues to surprise how he internalizes his roles , be it the grandeur of an emperor , or a straight-talking neighbour next door . Needless to say the best bits were in the first half , where like the 40 Year Old Virgin he goes on a schedule of blind dates after more blind dates , meeting countless of women with plenty of side agendas except settling down . His surprise comes in the form of Shu Qi's Xiaoxiao , because nobody would seriously expect a babe to hook up with someone through online means , given no lack of suitors already queuing up in the real world . I can trust a story written by Feng Xiaogang in that he crafts his characters with believability , and here he captures perfectly the essence of the dilemma of a middle aged man looking for a love partner . Knowing a below average joe would never be able to hold onto a relationship with a princess , given lack of funds , looks and power , Qin Fen passes up the chance quite honestly , but forms a firm friendship with Xiaoxiao . I guess Shu Qi's almost automatic first choice for a female lead role in a romantic film , having been seen very recently opposite Andy Lau in Look For A Star . While that role is a little more vivacious , her character here is a little more subdued , though no less glamorous as a stewardess with Hainan Air . Again she convinces with a credible performance of a woman who has this tremendous emotional baggage of being in love with a married man , who for obvious reasons cannot commit to her , nor wanting to let her go . She epitomizes Selfishness to the maximum , especially when deciding to trade and negotiate a relationship while knowingly still having a place in her heart for someone else , although credit given that she's upfront about it . What I particularly enjoyed about the film is its examination into seeking love through online means , where one has got to go through arduous ego-inflating profiles trying to seek out somebody for a blind date , which can turn out to be a tad disappointing when real life doesn't meet expectations set , no matter how small that is . The story excels , and is one of the key strengths of the film is in highlighting this disappointment . One can be magnanimous and make the best of the situation , or try to pull the plug as early as you can so as not to lead the other person on , or to waste everyone's time . It's all about having a little chance and taking risk at every possible opportunity presenting itself , and disappointments being just part and parcel of the process , especially when you have little brought to the table . Blessed with rich cinematography thanks to great locales in both China and in Hokkaido , Japan , look out too for plenty of cameos especially the blind dates that Qin Feng meets , the best ( to me ) was the short appearance of Vivian Hsu , who highlights once again some of the prejudices that any male would probably subscribe to as well . If there was a gripe , that will be the last scene which was quite unnecessary and too tacky , even though it was trying to make a not too subtle reference and statement to the real world financial crisis now , and the confidence to have in the Chinese financial system . I would only say to try not to miss this film despite the limited screens and timings , because this is certainly one movie that is worth its weight in gold . For those who cannot make it to the cinemas , the DVD is already out now , so you might just want to own it instead . Highly recommended , and goes into my shortlist of contenders for that end of year top movies list !
A Nutshell Review : Die Hard 4 . 0	John McClane , USA's supercop , returns to the big screens . being at the wrong place at the wrong time yet again , kicking some major terrorists ass since the original Die Hard way back in 1988 . It has been almost 12 years since Bruce Willis last starred in the definitive cop role , which some would arguably state that Die Hard had kick started the action movie blockbusters in the late 80s to 90s . I was just a 12 year old kid when I watched the original Die Hard , with a bruised and battered McClane surviving on gut instinct and an incredible amount of sly wit to turn the tables on the bad guys despite being heavily outnumbered . And with a building not big enough as his playground , Die Hard 2 saw him move up a level to weave in and out of an airport . Samuel L Jackson tag teams Willis in Die Hard with a Vengeance , where they run around NY City playing Simon Says , and now , McClane has to take on a group of multi-nationality mercenary geeks who threaten the entire USofA . The playground keeps getting bigger , but that's only befitting a supercop , ain't it . both in threat level and geography . Mark Bomback's story in Live Free or Die Hard continues to paint a picture of woe for McClane . You'd expect a supercop like himself to be highly decorated , rewarded , commended etc , but as it turns out , he's painfully divorced , has almost nothing except for the shirt on his back , his daughter Lucy , played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead , ( Death Proof , Final Destination 3 ) refuses to acknowledge him , and nothing could be worst than an escorting mission right out of 16 Blocks , right ? And that's where he gets into the wrong place at the wrong time , getting back to the formula . In fetching an easily impressed geek hacker Matt Farrell ( Justin Long ) , he finds himself in the thick of the plot to bring down the national infrastructure in a coordinated takeover using a Fire Sale methodology which Farrell unwittingly contributed , and it's up to the duo to save USA , especially when the old school cop obviously had his inadequacy and disdain for technology show , sometimes leading to comedy . While most of the action sequences have been shown in the trailers , and while they might look like your usual car chases , explosions and gun battles , somehow there is still a " die hard " feel to them all . Perhaps this can be attributed to formula again , and some familiarity of " have we seen this before " ( aka the lift shaft sequence ) , only to have them being updated for today , and of course , being a little faster , a little more furious , than our aging hero could handle . There's a scene which might make some scream " True Lies ! " , and Maggie Q unfortunately is a tad overrated , relegated into a typical role that if it's Asian , then there must be some kung-fu involved . And speaking of the bad guys , the Die Hard franchise have always featured foreign subversive elements , like Euro terrorist Hans Gruber ( Alan Rickman ) in Die Hard , and his brother Simon Gruber ( Jeremy Irons ) wanting to avenge Hans in Die Hard With a Vengeance , while some General in a fictional country made McClane Die Harder . The trend continues here , especially with the employment of Frenchmen who can do Parkour . The motivation , save for Die Harder , has always been the same - Money . The bad guys of course never learn from history , and repeat the same mistakes . In this one , while they seem a little smug with themselves , actually work with less loyalty than those in the other movies . Timothy Olyphant's Thomas Gabriel comes from within , out to prove a point as a disgruntled ex-government employee , Obviously Thomas has no respect for history , and although he has access to records , is quite oblivious to know who he's messing with , and repeating the same mistake as Hans Gruber did in taking a family member hostage . Despite some similarities in plot development in the hopes of stalling McClane , the formula too extended to things like McClane making contact with the bad guys without actually seeing each other in the flesh . That bit though contributed to a kink in the production , with a somewhat major error in having the walkie talkie seem like a working telephone , and bad editing made mouth movement out of sync . There are other loopholes , or some would deem ridiculous , preposterous or impossible sequences ( just like how I say Die Hard With a Vengeance had this scene where Willis and Jackson slam onto containers , and yet survive ) , but hey , so long as McClane gets to kick some arse in a satisfactory manner , without mercy and almost always with a quip , I'm not complaining . Die Hard 4 . 0 is indeed another hurrah for John McClane . Willis has played other cop roles like in Hostage , Sin City , Mercury Rising , 16 Blocks and the likes , but none of them are as memorable nor as definitive as McClane . Of late there is a return of old school heroes like Rambo and Rocky teaching their contemporary peers just how to stamp their mark in action flicks , and there absolutely is no doubt on McClane's successful return . Yippee-Ki-Yay indeed !
A Nutshell Review : Lagaan	Having won multiple awards and gotten itself nominated in the 2002 Academy Awards in the Best Foreign Language Film category , my interest in Lagaan was actually in wanting to discover more of writer-director Ashutosh Gowariker's works , having seen his latest movie Jodha Akbar , and having bought Swades : We , the People starring Shah Rukh Khan , still unwatched . I've never been a fan of cricket and have never understood the rules , but I suppose after the time you're through with Lagaan , you'll learn at least the basics enough to enjoy the game . No doubt my interest in this sport has been piqued , and non-fans shouldn't steer away from the movie , because knowledge of the sport is not a pre-requisite for you to enjoy this wonderful gem of a sports movie running close to a whopping 3 . 5 hours ( and I heard in the collector's edition , it runs to 4 ? ) Set in British India , we learn that Lagaan is a form of taxation that the villagers have to pay to their Rajas , who in turn pay the British for protection against , erm , invading forces and rivals from other Rajas . In fact , the British were double crossing everyone during their occupation of the country , and bad weather makes the lives of the villagers even more hard pressed since they have zero crops to sell . Every village needs a folk hero , and herein lies Bhuvan ( Aamir Khan ) who decides to step into the shoes of one , not because of bravado , but because of the atrocities dished out by the British against his fellow countrymen , especially when taxes for the year have been doubled . So the stakes are raised in a game of cricket . Defeat the British , led by Captain Andrew Russell ( Paul Blackthorne ) and have a tax waver of 3 years for the entire province , or if they lose , then their Lagaan will be tripled . And you don't need a rocket scientist to tell you that when the impoverished have their backs against the corner , they have little choice but to fight back . However , after years of being oppressed and cowering in the face of hardship , you'll need that bright spark or two to shake things up and bring everyone to their senses that Hope is something they have which they can turn into reality if they work at it . The storyline might seem cliché as per the usual sports movies , where our hero Bhuvan has to assemble a team of good men each with their own special farming background which can be incorporated into the game , and recruitment always is a challenge when nobody believes you , and thinks you're the troublemaker who started it all . There are leaders , and there are followers , and some good time is invested to develop this challenge , as well as to explore the plight of the villagers in more detail . The villains of the movie , those pompous Brits personified by Captain Russell with his nose perpetually in the air all the time , are put in very bad light with their looking down of the natives as slaves . But even amongst themselves , the Indians too have their infamous caste system , and this was touched upon when Bhuvan chooses to adopt the more meritocratic route in player selection , and this message undoubtedly stands out . I can't comment much on these themes that Gowariker touch upon in his films , such as that of religious tolerance in Jodha Akbar , but it seems likely that he had incorporated these knowing that his films do appeal to the masses , and therefore serve as a reminder to everyone . While the last 1 . 5 hours get devoted to the game , where two proud man go head to head against each other with their team , and team members having their own personal vendettas worked out during the matches , it never for a minute played out in a boring manner . In fact , it was entertaining to watch them go through the paces of the game in 101 terms , and from there , those unfamiliar with cricket will likely be able to pick up the basics . Even if the sport is not your cup of tea , its delivery will still appeal to you , as do the usual Bollywood staple of dance and song , as composed by renowned A . R . Rahman - I particularly liked the segment where any self-respective sports movie will have - the training montage , and with a love triangle of sorts fused between Bhuvan , his childhood sweetheart Gauri ( Gracy Singh ) and Englishwoman Elizabeth Russell ( Rachel Shelley ) , sister of the villagers ' enemy but one who decides to teach them the game so that they can get on equal terms with her countrymen . Despite its clichés , Lagaan is wonderful entertainment , and you will not realize the movie's running length , as you'll be engrossed in what transpires , and will find yourself rooting for the clear underdogs as they go about trying to battle oppression in unfamiliar terms . Colourful songs and charismatic folk characters , Lagaan unquestionably reinforces my love for Bollywood !
A Nutshell Review : Volver	I met Penelope Cruz when she was in Singapore way back in 2001 , for the local premiere of Cameron Crowe's Vanilla Sky , but too bad for me I don't speak any Spanish , so I can't communicate anything beyond a smile and a request for an autograph from the beauty , amid hordes of folks who paid no attention to her and Crowe , just waiting for Tom Cruise to make his way down the red carpet and bask in his megawatt smile . I can't say I've been following much of her movies since Vanilla Sky , save for that action flick Sahara . But she reunites with Spanish writer-director Pedro Almodovar in Volver , and surely , this is one movie that shouldn't be missed , for the simple reason that it has a superior story to tell , stemmed from Mother's love . In a tale spanning three generations of a family , at first glance this is a pro-woman movie , where most of the men portrayed are cads . However , in its relative simplicity , this movie is extremely well crafted , with a great storyline to boot . You may find yourself wondering how mundane scenes are linked together in an interesting narrative that doesn't seem to want to end , and with so many subplots thrown in along the way , you're waiting for it to collapse on its own weight , which in lesser hands , it just might . But it doesn't . Instead , it lifts itself through wonderful performances , as well as many a quick wit inserted every now and then to liven things up , in spite of its dark humour and dark themes , like spirits who return because they have unfinished business , or a killing that seems to want to expose itself at any time , or that deep dark mystery and skeleton in the closet which spanned more than a generation , seeking answers . It's about communication , or the lack thereof , that we examine in the three generations , giving us results in the difference in parenting styles . It's true that a parent would want their offspring not to have to experience the negativeness of their growing up , and in the movie , while being teased by the red herrings , you'd come to understand , and perhaps even pre - empt if you're keen , at its revelation , touching on the sins of our , in this case , mothers ( strange , isn't it ? ) . I can break the story down for you , but no , you have to experience it for yourself . For the price of a ticket , you'll get to hear Penelope Cruz sing , and the movie really did milk at lengths , plenty of cleavage shots for one reason or another . Highly recommended ( for the story but of course ! ) , and it's almost a guarantee you'll leave the theatre with a bittersweet feeling , with a tinge of positivity . But do hurry , as a slew of lesser movies releasing over the next week will see this film disappear from the local screens soon enough . Contender for my movie of the year !
A Nutshell Review : Bridge to Terabithia	Based on a children's fantasy story written by Katherine Paterson , and produced by the same company that did the latest Chronicles of Narnia , I thought that the movie would probably be mediocre given my lukewarm response to films of similar genre like Pan's Labyrinth and The Last Mimzy . And how wrong was I . Bridges of Tarabithia trumps over all the movies mentioned , basically because it had a good story to tell , and stuck to telling that story instead of being distracted by the bells and whistles of special effects . It tells the story of a budding friendship struck between two kids , both lonely souls who found each other by virtue of being in the same class , and neighbours . Jesse Aarons ( Josh Hutcherson , last seen in RV ) is the lone boy in a family of girls , and finds that his simply living in a world of his own , getting no attention from his parents or siblings . He finds solace in his drawings , while being target practice for the bullies in school . Newcomer to the neighbourhood Leslie Burke ( AnnaSophia Robb , last seen in The Reaping ) shares the same loneliness , being new to town , and neglected by her parents when they go into their creative writing zone . Tarabithia becomes the fantasy world the friends find themselves in , a forested area off their residence . There , they become who they want to be , and through their imaginative world , become fast playmates , and firm friends . And with new found confidence and strength , they become more nimble in navigating through the school's playground politics . Needless to say , despite their age , you'll be wondering if like Mukhsin , the friendship between the two will develop into something deeper , with all the feel good moments around . What I liked about it is its positivity in the themes explored , despite a dark moment . It's about hope , love , the power of imagination when you open your mind and make believe . It has adult themes , and somewhat gives a feel like Pan's Labyrinth , minus the dark moody overtones . I can't help but guffaw at the discussion of religion too . For the most parts it has a breezy pace , until it sledgehammers certain emotions that will definitely bring on a tear or two from those who are soft hearted . The leads too do a commendable job , and their chemistry just perfect . They fed off each other's enthusiasm well , and made Terabithia believable . The special effects didn't go over the top , or turned on unnecessarily , as they are quite small scale compared to the arsenal employed for other fantasy movies , therefore not stealing the thunder , or distract the audience from the story . Reigned in properly , the effects are just effects , and not the main deal . The last act indeed takes the cake , and you'll more often than not feel for the characters , and wonder about selfishness . Unless you don't have a heart , you'll definitely feel sorry , and understand the blame inflicted . With supporting casts like Robert Patrick and Zooey Deschanel ( Hitchhiker's Guide to the Universe ) who also lent her voice as the singing schoolteacher , don't miss Bridge to Terabithia ! Oh , and bring a date along too !
A Nutshell Review : Persepolis	It is not difficult to understand the growing number of accolades that are being bestowed upon Persepolis , directed by Vincent Paronnaud and Marjane Satrapi , which is based upon the graphic novel of the same title by Marjane , as it recounts in autobiographical terms , the growing pains of the author in a world that had undergone tremendous change in the last few decades . Yes , not many films take on the political and social context of Iran head on , and what more doing so in very acute , straightforward , no holds barred terms . But it doesn't just seek to pass callous judgement or sought the easy way out to slam everything about the restrictive standard of living . Rather , it's a long hard look at the oppression and changes for the relative worse , and summarizes quite succinctly the turmoil that its ordinary citizenry had to endure in their day to day lives , but yet , always have that glimmer of hope to cling onto , and the joys of taking pleasure in the simple things in life . The story is told through the perspective of author Marjane Satrapi from the time she's a young child , and life as she knew back then forms the baseline where changes are measured against . For the first act , we're treated to a summary of the historical events that took place in the late 70s revolution , and the euphoric sentiments that came with it , before reality set in , and religious fervour take centerstage . We follow Marjane as she grows up and we partake in the later acts where her life abroad is filled with the expected cultural shocks , and becomes a tale about the remembering of one's roots . Strangely enough and here's where the kudos go to , is that Persepolis never , at any moment , felt like it was preaching from a soap box , nor is heavy handed in its treatment of politics and religion . Its allowance for comedy was extremely generous , with cheeky lines thrown in and thank goodness too for her Grandma who's a constant chicken soup for the soul , her bawdy sense of humour and subtle sarcasm never far away , and to whom the references of the Jasmine flower belongs to . But it's not all lighthearted laughter , as when the time calls for tension , you'll feel just as panicky as the Iranians when the morality police come aknocking at one's door , in their obsessive attempts to weed out decadent western influences , which often defies simple social logic to the likes of you and me . As my friend put it , it's blatant hypocrisy on display . And for it to be nominated for Best Animated Film in the upcoming Oscar awards does give Persepolis a vote of confidence in its art department , but naturally without a doubt for its strong , engaging storyline as well . The movie is almost devoid of colours as it's spent recollecting the past , and despite it being just in black and white , it's still simply gorgeous to look at . The lighting and shadow play worked wonders , and the slick editing and transitions make Persepolis deserving of a second viewing . I thought that for its subject matter , animation would probably be the way to go because there will be expected problems to shooting scenes in country , especially for authenticity purposes . But with animation done right , one can probably get away with stylistic license taken . Highly recommended , and not to be missed especially if you're an animation fan , or are yearning for an excellent piece of storytelling .
A Nutshell Review : $9 . 99	Personally I dig stop-motion animation , for the simple conscious fact that there's a lot of blood and sweat going on behind the scenes just to get an object to move . You can imagine what it takes to get a character to move an arm , and you extrapolate that effort into a feature length film with a lot more things happening concurrently on screen , and you're likely to appreciate this artform a lot more , with new found respect for it . $9 . 99 is an amazing piece of stop-motion animation coupled with a tremendously engaging story made up of multiple narrative threads , and a myriad of characters attempting to tackle their respective problems in life . It begins with a bang literally , where a homeless man ( Geoffrey Rush ) with a gun in hand , asks Jim Peck ( Anthony LaPaglia ) for a cigarette and a light , before launching into some really clever moments about manipulation . It's an excellent start to jolt you into realizing that this film isn't just another walk in the park , and as it plays on , you'd discover its brilliance in its commentary about life , as seen from the experiences of the residents in an apartment block . We have a family of three , with Jim who might just need his karma checked for encountering really antagonizing moments involving death , and his two sons Dave ( Samuel Johnson ) and Lenny ( Ben Mendelsohn ) , the former being unemployed and is found to be central to the narrative , and the latter being a Repo-man finding himself falling , and obsessing over the love by new neighbour and supermodel Tanita ( Leeanna Walsman ) , who has a fetish for a hairless body . Then there's a lonely old man who finds the world contents passing him by with nobody interested in hearing him talk a bit ( well , because he's long-winded as well ) , finding a companion in an angel , whom he asks incessantly about Heaven . Then there's a boy who has a friend in his piggy bank , and a couple on the verge of being married having to fall out because one of them refuses to grow up . The " $9 . 99 " comes from the price of a catalog of books , one of which touts to hold The Meaning of Life which Dave buys . Unfortunately , the characters here seem to be caught up in living their own lives and falling victim to respective challenges life presents itself , and so every effort that Dave wants to share gets spurned , and we the audience , unfortunately , don't get to hear if there are any insights to that . But of course we all know that there's no silver bullet , and the characters here , though the course of this emotionally moving film , learn of that meaning as it applies in their own , with the old man determined to take a more proactive approach , to a connection between a father and a son , to love found and running parallel to that , a love broken because of sacrifices that one has to make , or the lack thereof , and the maturing of a young child . I guess nobody scoffs at animation , especially one that targets the mature audience ? check out that Dr Manhatten moment . I've new found respect for stop-motion animation , and for the filmmakers involved in producing this fine piece of work . The attention to detail is incredible , never at any moment hinting that they had cut some corners and compromised quality . Definitely highly recommended , and easily one of the few films I thoroughly enjoyed in the festival lineup .
A Nutshell Review : How to Become Myself	Based on a story by Kaori Mado , How to Become Myself touches base with what it means to understand oneself , and being very comfortable with it . To be honest , everyone plays different roles in different situations with different people encountered . I can be a brother , friend , soldier , employee , reviewer , son , and the list goes on , putting on different masks , being different persons , adopting various personae . With the advent of the Internet and anonymous profiles , what you can be , is limited only by your imagination . ( And of course you've got perverts being totally something else altogether ) . And in the many roles we play , how often do we stop and take stock - just who the heck am I ? Who's the real me , and what's the " me " that I'm portraying for others to see and interact with ? Bottomline is , are you being true to yourself and being honest about yourself with others ? Or are you superficially role playing with nary an emotional attachment to the part ? What I thought was neat was that the movie doesn't shove this thought down your throat , but rather played it out through the interaction between the leads . Subtlety is by far Ichikawa's strongest point in his movies ( based on the 4 I've seen ) , and his pace of the movies allows you room enough to ponder as scenes transition and the narrative develops on screen . Juri ( Niko Narumi , you'll be amazed that she's only so young , but yet has the capability to take on a character that so layered and yet so subtle in her delivery ) plays an ideal girl at home and in school , but this facade is quickly stripped away early in the movie , as we see her loathe her parent's bickering at home , while putting up a false front of a happy , supportive family to the outside world . In the movie , the spotlight is also shared by fellow classmate Hinako ( Atsuko Maeda ) , a popular girl who in a twist of fate , becomes the victim of classroom politics and bullying . Mere acquaintances , they share a poignant conversation just after junior school graduation , before going their separate ways . The story then fast forwards 2 years later , and Juri , out of curiosity , looks up and emails Hanako , who apparently doesn't seem to remember her , or their conversation . And thus begins a reintroduction and attempts to build a friendship between the two in what is probably one of the most layered stories I've experienced in recent times . It's almost like kueh-lapis , where each layer can be peeled apart and reveals another understanding at a different level . It tells of the story in three ways , through exchanges of email ( more on this later ) , as the catalyst and fuel for creative writing , and of course , in the character's real lives . Juri and Hinako wear different masks to play different roles , consciously and subconsciously , and with each being a projection of their articifically created self , there's no denying just who's playing what role , and questions of whether they're relishing these roles are posed , and when do you know to stop and become yourself , truly ? Watching the narrative unfold was part of the fun , as techniques such as panel in panel , and split screens , are used to simultaneously present to the audience the different character's action / reaction at the same point in time . Not to mention that the shots are beautifully rendered , with text messages from mobile phones bringing to mind Eric Khoo's Be With Me . In true Ichikawa style , the pacing is deliberately slow , and the wonderful soundtrack comprises of eclectic pop tunes as well as quiet contempla tive pieces , all of which I thought complimented the movie very well . But what I really enjoyed when watching the movie , and how it connected with me , was the way it seemed like a dispenser of tips on love and the living of life . And this brings to mind the song Everybody's Free ( To Wear Sunscreen ) , which itself was based on an article written in the Chicago Tribune on 1st June 1997 by Mary Schmich titled " Advice , like youth , probably wasted on the young " . I got the same feeling when reading the column ( and re-reading it again ) back in those days , listening to the song version of it , and now watching a series of events unfold on screen as one character projects her self onto another , as well as the aptly included commencement sequence . Sometimes things just click , and connects on a different level which appealed to me at least . And now about that email exchange , I think it's prudent to bear in mind that the Japanese wireless telecommunications network is different from the GSM one that we're so used to . I've heard some puzzled expressions and comments about how it's possible to not know who is calling based on the Caller-ID , but I suppose that the Japanese network is already more highly advanced and developed than the GSM one , and sending an email through a phone is a piece of cake . So let's not confuse that with the sending of SMS , which obviously then this story , or how it panned out , wouldn't apply to places like ours . And yeah , I like their phones too , even though it's the girly model - there's something about the simplicity and minimalist look and feel about it ( in the design , not features ) that I'm impressed with . How to Become Myself easily ranks amongst my favourite of Ichikawa Jun's movies to date , in addition to Tokyo Marigold . Highly recommended as it's a really good film all round !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Toy Story 2 ( 1999 )	There are few sequels that can equal or even surpass its original , and for an animated feature , perhaps Toy Story 2 is the first of its kind that didn't end up going direct to video . I'm unsure why I hadn't caught this in the theatres , given that I've thoroughly enjoyed the first Toy Story . I've taken 7 years to finally watch this gem , and of course , to include myself into the legions of Pixar fans out there who have watched every single animated feature they produced . Toy Story 2 remains the only sequel that Pixar put out , though I'm rooting for The Incredibles to make another appearance on the silver screen . Bringing back its stellar voice cast like Tom Hanks and Tim Allen , and favourite characters that have endeared themselves to us , I'm thrilled that there is so much more story that can be told of our favourite toys in Andy's room . What worked , at least for me , is that the story and characters appealed to the child inside . I own quite a number of toys as a kid , and yes , I outgrew them , although most of them are still stored in boxes somewhere around the house . Perhaps some of them are small collector's item in their own right , and as a child I did wonder if the toys do come alive to wreck havoc around the room before they retire in time and clean up before I wake up . Of course toys do not come to life ( or do they ? ) but here in this sequel , the exploration of the friendship theme takes on a different dimension when Woody finds himself with other toys from the same collection as he is - a cowgirl Jessie , his trusty steed Bullseye , and a prospecting character known as Stinky Pete . The dilemma he faces is whether to cast aside his constant fear of Andy abandoning him for good , and opt for life with his new found family in some museum somewhere , where he'll be appreciated for many moons to come , or to return with Buzz and his friends for the life he has grown so accustomed to . The adaptation to change , loyalty , abandonment , friendship - a lot of themes for a children's movie , but that again is the appeal of Toy Story , that it can be viewed at different levels , for a child who can enjoy the animation and the story at one level , and for adults to reminisce and enjoy it on another . By deftly handling the different themes , and appealing to different segments of audiences with the same movie , Pixar exhibited exactly why they're top dogs in this field . As always , the music and animation are excellent , and given that I'm watching this now and found it enjoyable , I think they have a film that can stand the test of time . I hear of rumours of a third Toy Story movie , and if that were true , I'd say bring it on !
A Nutshell Review : The Boy in Striped Pyjamas	At the risk of sounding stupid , while I knew that this was based on a book by John Boyne , not having read it meant I had initially thought that it would be one of those childhood based film on fantasy . And I guess so did many parents in bringing their little tykes in what they thought would be a weekend filler in between activities . Little did I and they know of course that it packed such a powerful emotional punch in not wanting to be just another movie set in WWII Germany and the Holocaust , showcasing the horror of that era seen through the eyes of a little boy who couldn't understand the gravity of the dire situation he's plunged into , making it all the more painful to bear witness to . I was glad that director Mark Herman didn't dumb it down for the audience in masking the horror of the atrocities committed , as are the cover ups and the matter of fact manner in which the Nazis went about conducting their persecution of the Jews in concentration camps . Asa Butterfield stars as Bruno , an eight year old boy from whose eyes we witness the chain of events unfold . Having the family uprooted from Berlin to the countryside in order to follow the father ( played by David Thewlis ) , an officer in Hitler's army , we soon realize the true nature of this assignment , and that's to oversee the activity of building horrendous gas chambers and managing a concentration camp that's just a stone's throw away from their family mansion . To Bruno , being in a new environment means a severe lack of friends his age , and from his room he spies a farm where farmers mill around in their pyjamas . We see the world through the eyes of an impressionable , innocent boy who has yet to be exposed to the evil of the world , and this presents itself a number of avenues for the corruption of his mind , starting with the family home tutor indoctrinating Bruno and his sister Gretel ( Amber Beattie ) in lies against humanity . However , Bruno's sense for exploration and adventure sees him sneak out of his house and toward the " farm " , where he finds a boy his age Shmeul ( Jack Scanlon ) across the other side of the fence whom he befriends . This sets up some major conflict within Bruno especially when what he's being taught , told and observed within the household , being in direct conflict with his first hand experience with Scmuel , and becomes totally confused , though still afraid of speaking up for obvious reasons . This theme of standing up for what's right ( or the lack thereof ) and betrayal of the highest order has been explored in similar vein in films such as The Kite Runner and The Reader , but it doesn't mean that this film had its thunder well taken away from it . It still resonates thanks to the excellent portrayals by the kids in roles where their innocence has no place in their world gone mad , having rationale folks like the Mother ( Vera Farmiga ) shouted down and out . James Horner gives this film a wonderful score , and became a character on its own highlighting the various dangers lurking beneath the seemingly happier notes . Such as a scene where a screening of what goes on inside the camps was made , but totally for propaganda purposes , in stark contrast to what we know would and had happened , but here fabricated for the mass public . To Bruno , it seemed like his dad is a national hero , though there's this sense of karmic retribution permeating and waiting on the wings to pounce . We also see how double standards can be applied within family , and a general culture of fear being bred no thanks to the Oath that each officer had to undertake . Despite the dark content , the film is beautifully lensed , and I haven't read any qualm about the actors here all having to adopt an English accent ( in contrast with the stark complaints with Valkyrie , which is much ado about nothing ) . The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is an extremely moving piece and I had to admit I was quite affected by it , especially when the final reel came rolling . The last time I was this affected and moved by a " children's " movie was The Bridge to Terabithia . This film firmly joins it in that list of surprises , and a natural contender in my shortlist for the top movies of the year . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Slumdog Millionaire	Deep down inside , I personally believe some game shows are rigged to a certain degree . After all , organizers do try to profile you through a questionnaire which also contain clauses such as telling - nothing - but - the - truth - or - you - risk - forfeiting - any - prizes - won . So you're presenting yourself on a silver platter for opportunities to exploit both your strengths , if they choose to make you a hero , or your weaknesses , should you so be deemed as being there for entertainment value . This of course does not apply to some situations where obvious hints are provided so that you're given an idiot-proof situation to make away with some cash , should the sponsors be generous . Game shows are mathematical and probability at its best , and of course one that can be programmed such that the house can win all , or choose to let you go for a little bit of laughter at the side . You can be asked questions that you know or to do something that you're comfortable with , from the profile you built , or when the stakes are too high and the house's appetite for risk is somehow subdued , in comes the real challenge to see if you'd buckle under pressure , or can overcome your fears . For Jamal , ( Dev Patel ) , he's one question away in India's Who Wants To Be A Millionaire , hosted by Prem Kumar ( played by Anil Kapoor , and in real life hosted by Amitabh Bachchan who gets some mention here ) , to winning 20 , 000 , 000 ( count the zeroes , man ) rupees , given that he's answered seemingly random questions correctly , but on the show's logical break , get arrested on suspicion of fraud and tortured during interrogation to spill the beans . Based on the novel " Q & A " by Vikas Swarup , this Danny Boyle-Loveleen Tandan co-directed film brings us on a spiraling journey through the chapters in Jamal's life , where each episode of his tremendously rich tale of survival had Destiny place every nugget of required information toward those million dollar rupees . Hailing from the slums of Mumbai , we see how Jamal and his brother Salim carve a living out of exploiting their street smarts , even at one point being little artful dodgers themselves in a Charles Dickens tale . It boggles everyone that someone without a formal education could nab those random questions correctly , a tea boy working in a call centre , beating participants like lawyers and doctors . He captured the imagination of the entire nation , that sometimes the wildest of dreams can come true . You'll find yourself rooting for Jamal , because here's a character crafted so earnestly by the storytellers that it's hard not to root for the underdog . And his story as told to the police inspector ( played by Irrfan Khan ) , especially in his early life , set the stage thanks to the two adorable boys playing Jamal ( Ayush Mahesh Khedekar ) and Salim ( Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail ) who arrest your attention in a solid tale of two brothers growing up who eventually set foot on very different paths - one unassuming , while the other ambitious . And nothing better to drive the wedge between them than a girl Latika ( Rubiana Ali ) they knew by chance , and grew up with . One of my favourite films of Danny Boyle's was Millions , where a cute little boy with tremendous imagination , held court when a bag full of cash come literally crashing down on his play house . Boyle seems to hold court again with a tale of the little ones overcoming impossible odds of survival through the honing of their street-smarts and instincts , and again shows his eclecticism in direction with some dizzying cinematography by Anthony Dod Mantle . And providing the score and music to punctuate the movie is none other than the Mozart of Mumbai A . R . Rahman , whom I hope gets his due recognition with non-Indian film fans , and even though I felt that his work here might not have been the best I've heard , it's still a great introductory platform to everyone caught up in the buzz for this movie . For a story with events firmly written in the stars , and had plenty of coincidence and luck playing a part , it never for one moment felt forced nor contrived . Everything seemed possible , which makes it magical with Destiny having a big say , but one primary fact here is that Jamal had entered the gameshow not to win money beyond his wildest dreams , but to try and reconnect and search for a love that is lost , through a media platform . It's not that far fetched an idea , because I do know from personal experience that this type of scenarios do happen , with differing success results of course . Slumdog Millionaire is up against very strong contenders for the Best Picture Oscar , but it firmly has my support as one of the best this year so far , and I'm rooting for it to take home the statuette . It's a magical film with Destiny playing a huge part in changing the lives of underdogs , where hope and belief are made chic themes again .
A Nutshell Review : Penelope	Face it , I think we're attracted to beautiful things and are repulsed by almost anything that does not look appealing at first sight . For a girl , I suppose having a face of a pig is a living nightmare , and what more when you can do absolutely no cosmetic surgery to remove the snout ? That's basically the premise of this quirky but charming fairy tale of a story in Penelope , where a descendant of a high society family gets cursed as payment for the sins of her ancestors , being the first born female of the lineage and made to suffer from prominent physical defects , with only the love of one of her kind to break the spell and set her free . The story took me by surprise because it was full of nice little nuggets of comedy which genuinely tickles your funny bone , without trying too hard or by being dumb at all . It plays out rather intelligently , and have very lovable characters , well at least for the " good guys " , and nasty characters were just plain rotten on the inside . It served to play on the cliché reminder that beauty is only skin deep , and what matters really is the principles and values that one possess and practise . And to think that it's a simple story is missing the point , as it comes filled with enough carefully plotted twists and turns of a Brit comedy , complete with dry wit , that makes Penelope irresistibly charming . I've grown up watching Christina Ricci on the big screen since her Wednesday days with the Addams Family movies , and from then on , her roles have been nothing but eclectic , from duds like The Gathering , to the more recent temptress type roles like her stint in Black Snake Moan . She returns to her girly charming ways with the titular character , who's living the curse on her lithe shoulders . While on one hand she openly laments her frustration and loathes all the matchmaking attempts that Mom ( Catherine O'Hara ) arranges for her , Ricci also brought across the pain of rejection that Penelope feels each time guys leap out windows to confront their initial shock and fear . A continuous string of rejections will sap away all optimism anyone has , and will likely make anyone swear off trying to do more . Then came James McAvoy's Max , a blue-blood who didn't bolt but held his ground , for some time . He's quite the nerd turned perfect assassin in Wanted , but here he ditches all the machismo crap but dumbed it down a little as a romantic leading man with a shaggy dog look , except that this leading man's an obsessive gambler with great charm to get under Penelope's skin . There's nothing to shout about regarding his role here , except that in my opinion , he's there to personify the widely held belief of letting someone go in order for them to seek their true happiness , while being the contrast to the utterly revolting and whiny Edward Vanderman ( Simon Woods ) who despises our leading lady , only to try and satisfy strategic reasons for an alliance in matrimony . The supporting characters are a joy to watch too , and Catherine O'Hara's Jessica Wilhem has some of the best scenes in the movie hamming it up as the uber-concerned mother doing her very best to shield her unlucky child from unwanted attention . Peter Dinklage as the dogged reporter out for a scoop also deserves a shout-out , and he's in my radar too as one of the character actors to watch , after enjoyable turns in Death at a Funeral , and as Trumpkin in Prince Caspian . Fans of Hot Fuzz's Nick Frost must also keep your eyes peeled for his very small role , and Resse Whitherspoon who also serves as producer of the movie , has no more than a combined total of about 10 minutes in the film . What I credit the movie for is its telling of the story through rather non-conventional means , which would have otherwise really sapped all the charm , and presented itself as a rather plain movie to sit through . But without big sets or sequences ( just a very huge and aesthetically done makeup prop ) , this small movie didn't waste its potential , and makes for a very perfect film to sit through with friends , or loved ones ( meaning it's a perfect date movie lah ! ) It's been some time since I had an enjoyable time at the movies with fairy tales , and Penelope put that faith back in me . And you know what the surprise is ? That it makes it through as a contender for one of my top movies of the year , because it won me over with its sheer magical simplicity .
A Nutshell Review : Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi	Surinder Sahni is your typical routine joe who works for Punjab Power , meek and gentle , and a nerd to most . His love life is practically zilch , but on a visit to his old school teacher's home , he gets captivated by the beauty and vivaciousness of his teacher's daughter Taani ( Anushka Sharma ) , who has heard about him because of the frequent comparisons her father makes . But that day turns out to be a tragedy instead , with her fiancé and in-laws meeting with a fatal accident , and her father coincidentally suffering a stroke . A decision was made then , for her to be betrothed and married to Surinder , someone whom her father trusts , but this shotgun , arranged marriage turns out to be a loveless one for Surinder . There's this albatross hung around his neck , because his arrival heralded the darkest period in Taani's life , and thus was told upfront that while she can be a good wife to him , but she will never love him . Naturally this breaks Surinder's heart because there's nothing in this world he wouldn't do in order to bring her happiness that was originally hers , if he had in the first place not been associated with pain when he entered her life . While he has some little itsy-bitsy happiness stemmed from Taani's taking care of him , he still feels shattered knowing that whatever sincerity , care and concern he'll be showering on her , will have zero effect in trying to win her over . Opportunity presents itself of course , when Taani , bored with being a housewife , signs up for a dance class with Surinder's sponsorship . With the help of his good friend Bobby ( Vinay Pathak ) , he transforms himself to the suave romantic hero with an alter ego Raj , crafted according to the male leading men in films that his wife appreciates , and decides to take ownership on his love life by wooing Taani from scratch with this new , outgoing persona . But alas as we all know , such a plan becomes a recipe for disaster , because while Taani would not change her heart for Surinder , he has now taken the extreme into becoming someone totally different , and thus struggles with the pain of living a lie , especially when his plan becomes successful and leaves him pondering over whether to live a lie forever , just to be with her . Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi thus becomes embroiled with plenty of situational comedy involving different identities , but at its core is still a very strong romance story dealing with the notion of unconditional love without expecting anything in return , which Taani fails to fathom why anyone would go to such lengths in order to bring happiness to her life . Written and directed by Aditya Chopra , this story is strictly for the romantics at heart , otherwise you'll naturally balk at the thought that nobody could recognize Shah Rukh Khan whether or not he's the ordinary man Surinder , or the styled up Raj , especially when his wife Taani is the one who is blind-sided . But of course you can live with it if you buy into the whole Clark Kent - Superman secret identity where a pair of spectacles does wonders . The literal translation of the title means " a couple made by god " and as you know the man up there has a sense of humour sometimes , preferring to allow the couple to go through a number of painful periods in order to strengthen their resolve for each other . However , the story still steered very clear from the darker themes such as adultery , although Surinder and Raj are essentially the same person , Taani's falling for the latter does come after a long period of courtship , and curiously , she doesn't reveal her marital status till late . So while that theme might rear its ugly head once in a while when you pause from the incessant bonding between Raj and Taani , it doesn't get broached beyond that . Being a Bollywood movie would also mean plenty of song and dance , and being set against the backdrop of a dance competition , it brings about opportunities for the characters to hit the dance floor their moves . Shah Rukh Khan gets to showcase both extremes in character , one being the nerd with two left foot , while the other being at the opposite with plenty of smooth moves to show off . If anyone's in doubt of his acting ability , I guess this one movie will show what he's capable of . In fact , between his portrayal of Raj and Surinder , I prefer the latter more , because he had fused some wonderful nuances into his Surinder , that makes him an instantly likable character , while at appropriate moments , his portrayal shows you that tender side of him as well as the internal emotional struggles he has to go through as he woos his wife . Newcomer Anushka Sharma holds her own against the veteran as the young wife Taani , who's at constant odds with her marital obligations , and on the other knowingly falling in love with someone whom she becomes dangerously attracted to . Of course what she fails to realize is that they're the same person after all , and her best performance comes from the finale where you can see how she reacts to her make believe world come crashing down under the weight of realization . I guess loving someone unconditionally is that constant challenge , if it's at all possible extending otherwise from that of a mother toward her child . This film is an ode to that kind of loving emotion , and to a certain extent it puts the other person on a higher pedestal than oneself . I would prefer to overlook the flaws in the movie if any , and highly recommend his one to all the die-hard romantics out there , given the excellent performances , story as well as the beautiful songs that puts romance back into the air . An average joe can have an extraordinary romance , and Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi captures that wonderfully .
A Nutshell Review : Charlie and the Chocolate Factory	Roald Dahl wrote countless of books , many of which I grew up reading in secondary school . There are many of his works adapted for the screen as well ( The Witches , Matilda ) , but none so far given the Tim Burton treatment . The opening credits / scene has Burton's fingerprints all over - the imaginative sequence , the Gothic soundtrack ( done by long time Burton collaborator Danny Elfman ) , mammoth weird looking architecture and snow filled landscapes . In the beginning , we are brought to the small world of Charlie Bucket , whose family find difficulty in making ends meet . As Wonka announces the 5 Golden Tickets ( for a special visit to his factory ) hidden in his chocolate bars , we are introduced to the backgrounds of the other children's family and stereotypical character , like the German glutton , the English brat , the American go-getter , and the Television ( Wonka accused of mumbling ) boy . And no doubt , the audience will definitely root for the time when Charlie actually gets his ticket and join the rest . Willy Wonka is the number one Chocolateer , but he certainly has issues relating to people , and I guess nobody can blame him after having his " Secret Recipe " hijacked by corporate espionage . We are told of Wonka's background in a series of flashbacks throughout the plot , and one of my favourites is when he journeyed and stumbled upon the Oopma Loompas . As the narrative gets predictable , it actually turned it into its advantage , as the audience expects to see some innovative room in its spectacular imaginative splendour , the set pieces in which the children get themselves into , and the performance of the little Oompa Loompa people , whose hilarious spontaneous song and dance routine will definitely leave you laughing out loud . Towards the end , after the side-splitting zaniness of the factory excursion , the theme of Family is highlighted , and nicely wraps up the movie , both for Wonka and Charlie . Johnny Depp is class , but really though , I thought his Willy Wonka actually adapted Michael Jackson's look and nuances . He managed to highlight Wonka's freakiness and child like nature to a T , and Depp has shown he has done no wrong with diverse roles in Tim Burton's visionary movies . Also remarkable is his recommendation of Freddie Highmore into the role of Charlie . If you'd remember , they worked together before in Finding Neverland , and their on screen chemistry was brought into this film as well . Many touching moments featuring Highmore will tug at your heartstrings , and I suppose besides Dakota Fanning , he's one of my favourite child actors of today . I can't rave enough of the sets created for this film , with its wonderful use of colours . And besides scoring the film's soundtrack , Danny Elfman also provided the unique sounding voice of the Oompa Loompas , and purist of the book will be glad that the lyrics for most of their performances were from Dahl himself . Although adapted from a children's book , this is one movie I'd recommend to adults as well . I guess Roald Dahl would have been proud of this effort ! Bring out the Wonka bars !
A Nutshell Review : Ratatouille	The Pixar juggernaut continues ! I've always been enthralled by the movies that Pixar puts out ever since Toy Story , and through the years , Pixar has built a brand of trust amongst movie goers , with quality storytelling using animation as a tool to tell them , not because it's cool to do things through the medium , but that it adds a certain powerful , believable dimension , with stories rooted to universal themes , yet jazzed up by the structure in which it's told . The Incredibles ranked amongst my favourite so far , but writer-director Brad Bird has topped that with Ratatouille , a story about a rat , and probably the most mature of the Pixar stories to date . One of the rare successful rats in the animated genre is Mickey , but Remy here ( voiced by Patton Oswalt ) has more character , and with that photo realistic quality to him , will give Mickey a run for his money . It's a class act story about a rat who dreams of being somebody , of wanting to follow that dream in becoming a chef in Paris , and is undeterred by his size , and well , form , even though in any kitchen , the last thing you want is a rat in it . And to realize his dream , he forms a symbiotic friendship with bumbling Linguini ( Lou Romano ) , a garbage boy who just joined the restaurant which Remy's idol , the late renowned chef Gusteau ( Brad Garrett ) , founded . It's a story about the tussle between friendship and family , with the latter providing an added emphasis , and you'll happen to just about find a familiar chord to it . Remember the time when your folks frown upon the friends you keep , and how sometimes , through their good intentions , unwittingly stifle your hopes and desires ? Or how family becomes that obstructing stone on the pathway to success , or being taken for granted to provide for greedy , unabashed family and so-called friends ? Ratatouille explores these and more , though they're kept veiled and subtle for the narrative to move on , and never provided a dull moment for kids and adults alike . Pixar's animation continues to astound , and provide inspiration to the many 3D animators out there - they have always set new benchmarks for others to follow , and I think they're on top of their game with the excellent animated portrayal of Paris , the kitchen , and of course , the rats , with that touch of photo realistic quality to it all , which does wonders to the food presented . Amongst the food , I like the crusty breads best - you can almost feel the texture , and the rustling sound is just to die for . And the cheese , you can just feel it melt in your mouth . Mmm mmm ! The story's adversaries might be familiar - a mean boss Skinner ( Ian Holm ) and a mightier - than-though food critic Anton Ego ( Peter O'Toole ) , but it's the latter , despite his shorter screen time , that does its best to chill , and it was such an obvious jab with making him English . The comedy's here top notch , not necessarily relying solely on slapstick to bring on the laughs , but possessing many sly moments throughout as you root for little Remy and his escapades , less so for Linguini though , who comes off as that perfect loser in life . Ratatouille is a perfectly delicious offering worthy of that Pixar stamp , and definitely gonna be a crowd pleaser . I'm not sure why the delay in getting it released here , and having to suffer watching poor quality animation along the way . But the wait is well worth it , and I bet everyone will be pleasantly surprised indeed , with all the ingredients coming together for that wonderful presentation , that tastes and looks ju st wonderful . Despite the overkill of trailers , pre-screening warnings to turn off your mobile phones , etc , continue to put your trust in that little rat Remy , and savour what Ratatouille has to offer . No regrets - highly recommended , and another contender for my top movie of the year listing . Ratatouille is preceded by the trailer for the next Pixar movie Wall-E , and a short Pixar featurette titled Lifted , about two aliens and one of their attempts in passing the Alien Abduction course . Stay throughout the animated end credits for a little coda at the end .
A Nutshell Review : 2 Days in Paris	I actually did spend two days in Paris , back in August 2004 , and did all the touristy things one could do in those short 48 hours , like visit the unmissable landmarks such as Le Tour Eiffel , visited babes Mona Lisa and Venus at the Louvre , tried to look for the hunchback at Notre Dame , paid my respects at Napoleon's casket , and ended the night partying after a dinner watching a French revue . But no , I didn't have a Julie Delpy to romance , or to hang out with . Written and directed ( and edited ! ) by Julie Delpy , comparisons to the Richard Linklater twin combo Before Sunrise and Before Sunset are inevitable , because firstly , they star Delpy , and secondly , the characters hit off into interesting chatter that grabs our attention , albeit this one takes place over a longer period of reel time over 48 hours versus the combined 24 hours that the Before movies offered . But before you shout " rip off " and discredit Delpy's effort as another Linklater clone , I can safely say there are distinct differences between the movies , and that while Linklater's had a kind of dreamy romanticism to his , Delphy's 2 Days in Parissomehow had a more realistic , grittier , down to earth look and feel ( no offense to Linklater , whose movies I mentioned I just adore too ) , tackling a key issue in relationship , and that's honesty . In fact , you'd wonder if honesty ( 100 % no holds barred revelations ) can offer you less headache , particularly when your partner has to discover some parts of you that you want hidden away , either for reasons of being ashamed , or just because you want to protect him / her from possible hurt when they find out the truth . Truth usually has a funny way of getting back at you , in presenting themselves usually at the less than ideal situations , open to being misconstrued , and misunderstood . Kind of having a negative vibe to it all , doesn't it ? Adam Goldberg plays Jack , who's into a two year relationship with Delpy's Marion . While enjoying a whirlwind holiday in Europe , they decided to make a pit stop in Paris to visit Mario's folks Anna and Jeannot ( Marie Pillet and Albert Delpy , Julie Delpy's real life parents playing her reel ones in the movie ) , before flying back home to New York . That's the basic premise , with Jack being brought around Paris by Marion , as well as to catch up ( or rather providing the opportunity ) with Marion's friends , which inevitably involves ex-boyfriends . While at first being quite magnanimous , Jack will confront his fears and ego-busting situations when he starts to realize in his own warped perception that Marion may well be the village bicycle , having ridden with / on / by every male they come into contact with . I never thought I'd laugh my way through the movie , as from the get go , 2 Days in Paris contains extremely witty dialogue in rapid fire , and almost every character gets into the act , either intentionally ( like Jack and his constant sarcasm ) , or through various situations the couple get into . Cab rides aren't like Linklater's Before Sunset where the lovebirds take the time to understand each other , gaze and whisper sweet nothings . Cab rides here means opportunity for insane dialogue , insults , and even being hit upon ! It was so much fun that I'd actually wanted the couple to take more cab rides . Bringing on the laughs too was Marion's / Delpy's dad , a Frenchman who cannot speak English , which provides cross-cultural / language barrier comedy with Goldberg's Jack , and being the old man that he is , peppers his conversations and actions with so much sexual innuendo it'll probably make you blush . That scene in the art gallery is just to die for , if you pay close attention to the art pieces . Dad definitely stole the show each time he appeared on screen . But fun and laughter aside , this movie as it turns out , is a very keen , and introspective look at modern day love and relationships . That voice-over by Delpy towards the end , somehow struck a bell within me , and I'd think most of us who have been hurt in the same way , may share the same thoughts too . And for that bit of sincerity and recognition of a probable perennial issue of the cycle of love-lost-found-is-he / she-the-one-pondering , this Julie Deply movie is a definite winner . Kudos too to Adam Goldberg for being a likable unlikeable fella providing ample , believable repartee to carry the movie through . Highly recommended , don't miss this movie ! And book your tickets early too , as it has been playing to full houses !
A Nutshell Review : Parition	Purists who were up in arms about Chinese actresses playing Japanese characters like in Memoirs of the Geisha will probably flip again at the portrayals of Indians by non-Indian actors , and could cite again similar examples whether the country of origin lacked capable actors to pull the roles off ( Of course not , this is Bollywood we're talking about , certainly no lack of actors ) . But hey , this is a Canadian production , and those detractors were likely to have some axe to grind with Hollywood-ized versions of such movies , leaving this movie alone . Or maybe the subject matter explored here outweighed such negative , meaningless , counterproductive thoughts and arguments . Journeying back to the time of the British withdrawal from India , one of the policies introduced during the independence , is this little handiwork done by the British , which had the population at the time segregate themselves into Hindu India , and Muslim Pakistan . This led to migration of scores of people to either side of the partitioning , and with it came religious tensions , and mindless massacres from both sides . This movie through its narrative was no holds barred on this criticism , even though it too boiled down to misunderstandings and intolerance from both groups of people . Partition is a movie that I recommend , even though it's draped with heavy melodrama . Perhaps it's because it's a Romeo and Juliet type of story , with our protagonists not from feuding families , but from different religions . Gian Singh ( Jimi Mistry ) is an ex-soldier serving in the British army , and in his retirement from war , he returns to his village to seek a certain peace from within , after making a decision during the war which he has yet come to terms with . One day , he rescues Naseem Khan ( Kristin Kreuk ) from a massacre by the Sikhs on the Muslims who were en route to Pakistan , and shields her from his fellow men when they bayed for her blood . As you might have guessed , the two will fall in love amid the background of violence , and their love will transcend religion , culture , and intolerance . Or will it ? There are two acts in this movie , which I thought the second was somewhat hastened , given the idyllic pace which the first had dwelled in , sharing its rich cinematography by writer-director Vic Sarin . The story's development too moved into its fastest gear , especially in the finale which was what one would expect , and yes there were sniffles amongst the audience . What I thought was treaded quite superficially ( and I suppose it was perhaps on purpose ) was the dealing of religion , that it can be flipped flopped so easily . Perhaps herein laid a message that love will transcend that as well , given that after all , God is also about love ? Like how The Namesake made me sit up and take notice of Kal Penn , Partition had the same effect for Jimi Mistry . Best known for his comedic The Guru role in which he plays a " sexpert " , he's almost unrecognizable under that thick beard , and gave a very strong performance as a man haunted by his past , and finding a future with a loved one , willing to make extreme sacrifices for his family . Kristin Kreuk , in her second movie outing after her bimbotic role in Eurotrip , brings a more Smallville's Lana Lang-ish appeal to her character here , as she pines for the loves of her life , and lets those tears roll . No , she doesn't look a bit like your typical Pakistani girl , but yes , her beauty helps illuminate the screen . It's strange though to see her try her best to put on a believable accent , and mannerisms right down to head movements , but she looks good in those saris ! I was surprised to see Irfan Khan in a bit role here , having enjoyed his performance also in The Namesake , and Neve Campbell and John Light rounded up the supporting roles , with Neve's Margaret Stilwell a character whom I thought was a tragic one , no doubt if you interpreted as her still holding onto the candle for Gian , without him realizing , probably consciously aware that their status and skin colour are too different to have resulted in anything fruitful . With a one track beautiful theme song , lush sceneries , and wonderful performances , Partition is a surprise of the week , and over here , it's two screen release doesn't do it much justice . Should you want to watch a love story set against a historical background which still has repercussions until this very day , then make it a point not to miss this .
A Nutshell Review : Be With You	Death has taken away Mio from Takumi and 6 year old son Yuji , and it is no doubt that they miss their wife / mother dearly . They learn to encourage each other as they fend for themselves - Takumi suffering from a sort of psycho-motor illness which forces him to refrain from overexertion . Before she departed , Mio had given her son Yuji a storybook , which pens at the end , that come the next rainy season , she'll be back from the Archive Star . It is this hope that Yuji clings onto , with Takumi going along with , even though he knows it's a tad impossible . However , during a trip to an abandoned shed in the woods , where Yuji was searching for his and his mom's secretly buried time capsule , rainy season started , and to the surprise of both father and son , Mio reappeared , somewhat dazed . While the figure looked like her , she had arrived with no recollection of her past , unknown to her that she was married to Takumi , and had a child Yuji . Father and son do not know what to make of it , but decide against telling anyone that Mio had returned ( how would relatives and friends react , when they already had been to her funeral ? ) . Also , they make it a point to keep it from Mio that she had already passed away , and are determined to make the best of her return into their lives , which definitely needed a woman's touch around the house . Is this selfish ? I do not think so . To lose a loved one so early , and given a second chance to live what should have been , what would you do ? And with Mio back into their lives , everyone around Taku and Yuji could see tremendous positiveness in their outlooks . Since Mio couldn't remember much about the past , she asked Taku to go through from the beginning , how they fell in love and got married . His retelling of the story from his point of view , made up about a third of the movie , as we journey back in time to their schooldays , one date , forty seven letters and a breakup , and husband and wife relive the days of sweet romance . Will their happy days end ? Since Mio explained before she initially left that she's only back for the rainy season , Taku and Yuji had made it an open secret in celebrating each rainy day , wishing that the 6 weeks rainy season will not go , and last forever . You know that it will end someday , and father and son have to go through the pain once again of losing Mio all over . If you know what the ending will be , will you still go through with it , despite the pain and disappointment at the end ? This is the thought that runs through your mind as you watch their happy moments together unravel , while secretly crossing your fingers that the ending will change for the better . But Mio chanced upon her diary , amongst the 47 letters buried in the time capsule Yuji eventually found , and learns of the inevitable . And from here , she takes charge of the situation , knowing that she couldn't be around longer than she wished to take care of her husband ( and child ) , she teaches Yuji to cook and wash , and presumably other household chores as well , so that he could take care of his father . The strength of her love will make you ponder the efforts one would go to ensure that your loved ones are taken good care of once you're no longer around . It is no spoiler to know that Mio did leave after 6 weeks ( she's already dead , remember ? ) , but the film doesn't end there . Taku found Mio's diary , and reading it brings about explanations of their early courtship days from her own point of view , which really is Kleenex time as Taku comes to understand the truth behind certain events . The twist at the end explains the phenomenon of her appearance in the rainy season , and the running theme of living a life knowing its ending , makes a comeback . I haven't been disappointed with Japanese romances thus far , and it seems to me that every scene , every subplot , every trinket has a point , and are not for the sake of being there . Going full circle to realization seems a style they have mastered , which simply is amazing , in telling a simple tale a different , poignant way . The beautiful soundtrack adds depth and evokes the right emotions amongst audiences , and the main leads Yuko Takeuchi ( Mio ) and Shido Nakamura ( Takumi ) exudes commanding on-screen chemistry . The kid Yuji , played by child actor Akashi Takei , at times seem like a character mix between the kid from Millions and Jerry Maguire , you know , the cute boy who makes you go " awww . . . " with each of his antics and love for his mom . And Yuji will make you feel no less with each expression of love and longing , and really tug your heartstrings at his calling his " Mama " in helpless efforts of bringing and wanting her back . Based on a romance novel which I can't read during to my language inability , I am so going to own this DVD when it's out . Highly recommended movie to be watched in a theatre with a loved one , do not miss this !
A Nutshell Review : Downfall ( Der Untergang )	I watched this film to learn more about the final days during the Battle of Berlin , and to know more about Adolf Hitler and the twilight of his Third Reich at the end of WWII . A good movie can be made based on this premise alone , and true enough , I was blown away , as this film offered a lot more . Told through the eyes of many historical characters - the various war generals , a defiant Hitler Nazi Youth , Eva Braun , Hitler's stenographer Traudl Junge , and of course , Hitler himself . However , this film never exhibited a case of too many cooks spoiling the broth , as each perspective focused on different aspects during the fall of Berlin . There are those who talk about surrendering , some who want to fight to the end , holding onto the Fuhrer's belief that their troops outside Berlin will come to their rescue . You get a good sense of what's happening in the bunkers as Hitler's slowing losing it all . But this film is not all about talk and no action . Those expecting blood and gore from a war movie , will get just that . The filmmakers did a wonderful job re-creating war torn Berlin , and the bunkers in which Hitler and his generals spent their last days in . We don't get to see the Russians much , but we jolly well hear each and every Made-In-Russia artillery shell that's raining down - the entire movie really makes you feel like you were there in a war zone - every arty raid , every bullet fired . You'll get to see grizzly mock hospitals , where doctors amputate limbs . Suicides are common too , and you see blood and brain matter splatter on screen . The many characters are well-acted and brought to life effectively , but I'd like to put the spotlight on Bruno Ganz's portrayal of Hitler . It really brings the chills , and we can see the many hours of research bringing in results of every nuance the Fuhrer had , right down to Parkinson's . This film , while it humanizes Hitler and his generals , doesn't suggest that they are innocent of their war crimes . It puts into perspective the " other side " , giving the audience a chance to perhaps understand the happenings in the fall of a regime . Though it's 2 hours long , for someone interested in WWII and the Fall of the Third Reich , you'll never notice its length , and will clamour for more . Highly recommended . Postscript This film is a Cathay Cineleisure exclusive showcase , and today's sneaks happened to be in the smallest hall # 6 , which is a pity . Tickets are few , and sold out early . Hope those interested will be able to get tickets on the day you wanna watch .
A Nutshell Review : The Namesake	Books allow you to travel without leaving , and on the same note , movies too opens up a visual world that one can immerse into , going to places the filmmakers bring you , and experiencing and feeling the emotions that they try to evoke from you . There are few movies which leave me speechless at the end of it . Not because it's bad , but rather , on the contrary , The Namesake is a superb movie . I was in awe with so much that director Mira Nair managed to pack into its 2 hours , and the intricate layers that make up the movie . The movie begins with Ashoke and ( Irfan Khan ) and Ashima ( Tabu ) Ganguli , newlyweds and Indian immigrants to the USofA . The first third of the movie follows their struggles in their new adopted country , as they begin a new life amongst themselves in a foreign land , and starting a family there in order to provide boundless opportunities for their offspring in the land of the free . Things become more interesting and the family dynamics a joy to watch , once their kids come into play in the latter half of the movie , centered only their firstborn son Gogol Ganguli ( Kal Penn ) . It's a look into family ties , the clash of cultures and values , especially with their Americanized children's western thinking versus their parents more traditional , conservative views . It's not all bickering if you'd come to expect , but rather , a very meditated story , full of understanding and tolerance , and the realization of change , as epitomized by dad Ashoke . Watching this movie , despite the racial / cultural differences , still made me think a lot about my own state of family affairs , as the story touches on universal themes - family love , parents , the constant desire to be living life in the way you want , and one point that stuck to me throughout , was that about Gogol's struggle with his name , something which I can most definitely identify with . His disdain for his name Gogol ( after Nicola Gogol ) almost plays central to the movie . And fleshing out his character perfectly is Kal Penn . Who would've expected one half of Harold and Kumar being able to pull off such a complex role with aplomb ? Here , his Gogol / Nikhil on one hand knows what he should be doing about not forgetting his culture and roots , but on the other , with his Caucasian girlfriend ( played by Jacinta Barrett ) , he looks more comfortable in the American way of live he's so familiar with . It's the internal conflicts that we see him go up against , and how culture and myopia seem to influence his choices in the wrong ways . The rest of the cast are brilliant too , and I'm singling out Irfan Khan and Tabu as nothing short of bringing out excellent performances . They bring forth certain tenderness in their relationship , and plenty of love for their son . You can feel their awkwardness in having to deal with a new culture head on , and yet knowing that it's for the better , for their family , for opportunities . They can do a lot with so little - a touch of the hand , a twinkle of the eye , that you can't help but be welcomed into their world . The Namesake is filled with beautiful music , from both contemporary tracks as well as classical Indian music , as it parallels the struggles of the family straddling between two different cultures . And there are moments in the film that will even cause those with strong hearts , struggle to hold back a tear or two . This movie brought me to India , a country I have yet to visit , Kolkatta and the fabled monument of love , the Taj Mahal . With authentic locales , excellent acting and a layered storyline , The Namesake is firmly set in shortlist of my favourite movies of this year . Hurry and watch this in the cinemas before its run is up .
A Nutshell Review : Protégé	The Hong Kong crime movie genre has another worthy addition to its collection , hot off the heels of the Infernal Affairs creative team's Confession of Pain . While movies of the genre of late are almost always gearing toward sophistication , Protégé plays out its story in surprisingly straight forward fashion , although the characters are draped in shades of grey . What makes the movie compelling , are the relationships formed between the principle characters . If any synopsis suggests anything complex in the cops-and-robbers treatment of its key characters , it sure didn't play out that way . Daniel Wu is Nick , an undercover cop spending the last 7 years working for Andy Lau's " Banker " , one of the top drug lords in HK . Ill health has forced Banker to look for a successor , and as all crime lords without natural heirs go , it sure is difficult to trust an outsider to takeover the business without stabbing you in the back . In fact , instead of Asian superstar Andy Lau , Protégé as the name implies , is actually a Daniel Wu vehicle , as we see events unfold through his eyes , and in two concurrent threads . The first being his contacts with the suppliers , and the second , his personal relations from someone who is part of the demand pool . If you were to add an additional dimension , his allegiance with the law enforcers serves as a minor subplot . No wonder Nick is one confused chap ! In contrast to the slick production look of its peers , Protégé turned out rather grimy , in deliberate fashion , as much of the time we're stuck in the doldrums of society , the ready market of those willing to abuse drugs for that quick fix in escaping their woes . And it is in this part of society that we spend much of our time in . Nick befriends a single mom played by Chinese actress Zhang Jingchu , who is a drug junkie , unable to break out of her habit , try as she might . They form a reluctant friendship , more because of the fact that Nick takes pity on Jing-jing the little girl , the innocent sufferer of her mom's ineptness to break out of addiction . Written and directed by Derek Yee , Protégé covers the whole spectrum of the heroin supply chain , from the farmers right down to the individual junkie , and examines the concerns of each layer . It's basically a roadmap 101 to drug production , with loads of cash to be made , especially for those willing to take big risks in dealing , trafficking and producing . It's a showcase on the drug operations , with its low tech , high manpower operations in the extensive network of runners , and its compartmentalization of roles and responsibilities . You can't but be impressed by how things are run , akin to any large organization , only clandestine , led by businessmen in it for the money , with warped morals and a sense of being the bridge for sellers to satisfy demand . Despite top billing for Anita Yuen and Louis Koo , they actually have only bit parts in the movie , the former as the pregnant wife of Banker , and the latter as yet another junkie , husband to Zhang Jingchu's Jane . Somehow , with the audience I'm with , Louis Koo seems to be the one drawing in the laughter , perhaps for his general wardrobe and make up in the movie . Zhang Jinchu's performance managed to highlight the plight that junkies go through , in either trying to resist their urges , or succumbing to temptation , and the natural willingness to lie their way , even sell their souls , just for that quick fix . It's one thing to show compassion and trying to help , but totally a different ball game altogether as professional and sustained rehabilitation seems the only way to go . Hers and Louis ' roles are probably to send out strong anti-drug messages . On the other hand , Andy Lau's role , although muted in some ways , seem to want to endear him to audiences , with his character's penchant for candy , and all round nice family man . Never one who spends extravagantly on home turf , you'll probably not even suspect he's the head honcho of a multi-million dollar syndicate . And it is this harmless facade , that complicates Nick's relationship with his mentor , should he embark on following through with his mission . The mentor unreservedly showing you the ropes , making you a rich man in the process , and that his family takes a liking for you as well , but as the undercover , how could you draw the line , especially when its dealing with human emotions , of deep friendship , trust , and betrayal ? Daniel Wu played his role really well , and I'm surprised that he's super charismatic here , holding his own against Lau by playing the many facades of Nick excellently . His role too offers a comparison between members from both sides of the law , of trust and loyalties amongst in the force , albeit from another division , who spare no hesitation in using him for personal glory , and contrasted against the unwritten law of brotherhood , anonymity and trust of those in the illicit business . One of the biggest movies hitting screens in Asia during this Chinese New Year period , it won't be difficult for Protégé to make a killing at the box office , given its powerful , engaging storyline which doesn't complicate , and the star-studded cast . As Raintree Pictures had a hand in co-producing the movie , expect to see one scene shot here , which reiterates our long no-nonsense approach to drug traffickers . P . S . While I'm quite surprised at the many cinematically detailed instruction of drug production and drug use that remained intact in the version shown here , what was snipped instead was a sexy scene ( damn ! ) . What gives ? Yes , so besides having to watch this movie dubbed in Mandarin , it's an edited version to boot .
A Nutshell Review : Fantastic Four	OK , I admit I've always been a closet Fantastic Four fan . Before Stan Lee created the better known Spider-man , Hulk , X-Men , he created Fantastic Four , touted as the World's Greatest Comics Magazine , back in the 60s . Reed Richards is Mr Fantastic , Sue Storm / Richards is The Invisible Girl , her brother Johnny Storm is The Human Torch , and Richard's best friend / one time Sue's ex is Ben Grimm , aka The Thing . This is not the first time that the origin has been recreated in film ( the first one being a desperate attempt to secure movie rights , and is a tacky B-production ) , but this is the version that's done so right . And I dare say this is the BEST Marvel comic book adaptation ever , staying very true to its characterization just as Stan Lee envisioned it to be . Classic touches include the bickering amongst the characters and of course the very cliché ( perhaps FF popularized it ? ) basic plot of cooperation and teaming is stronger than the individual . The spot-on rivalry between Johnny and Ben , the use of their powers on one another ( always liked it when Richards overpower Ben ) , and the costumes themselves serve a purpose , highlighting the Invisible Girl's curves . . . oops , I mean the suits being exposed to the same radiation and adapting the same properties as its wearer , and Ben's fedora and brown trench-coat looked so in place . I could go on , like Richard's vow to Ben to help his tragic friend ( and themselves ) reverse the effects on their DNA , his overworking in their penthouse headquarters of the Baxter Building , the rejection of The Thing's appearance by the public , Johnny's impulsiveness and crave for popularity , and Sue's peacemaker role amongst the boys . What I also liked is that this film takes its time to develop their arch-nemesis Victor Von Doom , as his transformation takes place throughout the movie until the finale . Compared to Spider-man , there isn't a sappy romance to slow things down ( and Mary J Watson was never Peter Parker's first ! ) , nor are there too many heroes and villains like X-Men such that each character has limited screen time because of the focus on its most popular character Wolverine . In this film , each character has their own adequate share of the limelight , though I must mention that the Human Torch outshone the rest in set action pieces , while The Thing stole the show with humour . The film doesn't seem too long ( about the same duration as the original X-Men ) , but it manages to pack all the action , emotion , backstory nicely as one summer flick . Kudos to the casting team in bringing together actors who look the role too . Although stars are more goggle box actors ( Alba , McMahon , Chilklis ) , they sure looked comfortable in their outing on the big screen . If two's a company , and three's a crowd , then Four's just FANtastic ! Looking at box office numbers , I don't think it'll outdo Spider-man , but I'm still game for a sequel - they can bring on Galactus for all I care ! Look out for the cameo appearance of Stan Lee , whom you always expect in a Marvel adaptation that meets expectations !
A Nutshell Review : Cina	It was very strange indeed when the Chinese government of the time banned this film and called it anti-Chinese propaganda . Surely , the communist government then had watched Zabriskie Point and perhaps agreed that its ending of blowing up consumerism literally in your face , warranted the commissioning of Michelangelo Antonioni to shoot a documentary about China , and probably expected some beholden , pro-communist doctrine look at the state of things in the country , where the positives exalted and the negatives swept under the carpet . Alas Cina in my opinion stayed quite objective , and doesn't offer any judgmental criticism through its eye in the camera lenses , either for or against policies that unfolded in front of them . For the period of time that Antonioni and his crew were the host of the Communist Part in the middle of the Cultural Revolution , what we got instead was an extremely fascinating look at the facets of live within the iron curtain , from major sights and recognizable attractions , to the lesser seen mundane activities of the everyday lives of the average joe . A magnum of a movie unfolding itself in 3 parts , we begin this rare look of a journey into China during its Revolution , and if pictures can tell a thousand words , what more moving images ? Starting off at a defining location in Tiananmen Square , there are some subtle differences at the Square then , and now . The theme song for the documentary happened to be " I Love Tiananmen Square " which schoolchildren sing with gusto , and we see later how the little tykes get indoctrinated quite innocently through propaganda infused into song and dance that they participate enthusiastically . Besides this recognizable landmark , it became like a journey through time as we also get to look at The Forbidden City , as well as The Great Wall in its pre-restored state of today , sans millions of tourists too , and witness broken , unmended sections that riddled the monument which was referred to as not one built by an Emperor , but one built by slaves . It's a rare treat indeed because the filmmakers dare to push the boundaries of permission granted to them , where on occasions even after explicitly being told " No " to filming a particular moment or location , the camera still rolls anyway , and we're told and get to see just exactly what was forbidden , which I think in today's context , is nothing to get riled up with . We get an observation of a slice of everyday life , where the camera lingers on to provide strange yet intriguing images such as a typical work day in a factory , women with bound feet , and amazing sights and sounds such as a man riding a bicycle and practicing Qigong simultaneously ! We also get explained certain policies of the communists at the time , which seem quite unbelievable that home rentals are capped at 5 % of whatever your monthly salary is , or how workers work with a general lack of anxiety and urgency . In true Antonioni fashion , we get to see luxurious shots of vast landscapes in the country as they make way to the rural areas , such as the Honan Province and the Yellow River , in a balance with city landscape shots in Shanghai and Suzhou . It's this fine balance of the rural and the urban , of Chinese people living and working in both contexts in the country , that I thought makes this documentary quite a winner . But what was truly fascinating , were the carefully prepared episodes that pepper the documentary . One unforgettable episode that you must see for yourself , is something of a celebration of Chinese traditional medicine vis-a-vis modern Western medicine . I just cannot imagine how acupuncture is used as an anesthesia for a Cesarean section , as we see incredibly long needles poked into a woman to numb her womb and nerves , as doctors both work on getting her newborn out , while talking , and feeding ( ! ) her at the same time ! It's so unsettling at I was tempted to look away when the scalpel cuts through flesh , yet on the other hand , just refused to blink with wide-eyed amazement at how this feat was performed , and wondered if it's still being performed until this day ! Something else I found peculiar , was how the last act rattled on like an acrobatics variety show . Granted that for an audience of the time , they might have found it to be an experience watching it , but somehow , I thought it was a sense of deja vu , whether or not having to watch that particular segment on some other variety show on television ( could be this one , I'm not too sure ) , but the stunts performed were found to be quite familiar . I believe some would have made their way as a standard export items for travelling Chinese acrobats to arm themselves with in their travels overseas , and I'm fairly certain some I've seen in Chinatown some years back . But anyway , it's still quite something Cina as a documentary film was one which was draped with fascination for both filmmakers as well as an audience , rather than championing anti-whatever sentiments from either side of the world . Not having seen many movies , either features , shorts or documentaries made during the Cultural Revolution era or about that era in question ( propaganda included ) , I think this Antonioni film has more than made its mark as a definitive documentary that anyone curious about the life of the time , would find it a gem to sit through .
A Nutshell Review : Mamma Mia !	I grew up to the songs of Swedish group ABBA ( yeah , I was born in the 70s , can ? ) , and yes I'm fan enough to have bought their definitive collection CD and DVD years ago to add to my library , and have it all in my iPod so that I can listen to the evergreens that never fail to put a smile on my face , although some songs actually have really heartbreaking moments in them if you listen carefully . Hollywood continues to plunder past musicals on stage and previously on screen , to come up with an updated version for celluloid , and it's actually no surprise that they roped in director Phyllida Lloyd , who directed the original Broadway play , to helm the cinematic version of Mamma Mia ! which in itself is quite genius to have been able to design a narrative around the songs already published by the pop band . And the result of course is nothing less than a crowd pleaser , especially for a fan like myself . I guess the trailers would already put in enough hints on what the storyline is about , that plays out like a Greek comedy with a bride to be Sophie ( Amanda Seyfried ) in wanting to know who her real father is , invited all the potentials from her mother Donna's ( Meryl Streep ) colorful free loving , hippie past , to attend her wedding with the ultimate aim of course to give her away during the ceremony . So the three of them - Bull Anderson ( Stellan Skarsgard ) , Sam Carmichael ( Pierce Brosnan ) and Harry Bright ( Colin Firth ) all turn up , leading to a comedy of errors , of reminiscence of a time gone by , of relationships turned sour , or what could have beens . Playing out over 24 hours at a Greek island where Donna runs a small crumbling hotel , you can tell that everyone of the star studded cast had a field day on set , especially when hamming up their respective characters - you can't get enough of Donna's posse in Rosie ( Julie Walters ) and Tanya ( Christine Baranski ) - and there are enough ABBA songs to go around either for individuals to showcase their singing prowess ( or lack thereof ! ) or to come together as an ensemble group to just let their hair down and have a lot of fun . Some would have deemed Meryl Streep not being able to deliver , but I thought she did well enough , and Amanda Seyfried at certain angles bore some uncanny resemblance to add some believability as her daughter . Pierce Brosnan on the other hand , you can tell was having a tough time trying to sound and sing convincingly . But that aside , I chuckled at plenty of moments when the hotel employees / Greek island inhabitants join in the chorus , and some infectious dance choreography when everyone chips in just makes this one heck of a pre-wedding celebrations . And if you need some reaffirmation of why you need to watch a musical in the cinemas , look no further than Mamma Mia ! . At first I frowned at the distributors for delaying its premiere here for so long , then now perhaps realized it was a shrewd move on their part ( as always ) , probably to help enhance the cinema going experience . Prints after late August come with lyrics at the bottom of the screen , so yep , we get the Sing Along Edition over here . And boy , the hall I was in - I think I was the only ( ahem inconsiderate ) one initially lending my vocals , whistling and humming to each song - by the time the last few songs came around , EVERYONE was singing along , kickstarted by the very moving song that happened to be my favourite of them all . So you know what to do , when you hit the cinemas for this . Lead and sing along , since the lyrics are there for all and sundry . And you'll get that fuzzy feeling when everyone else does the same thing . I heart Mamma Mia ! and you'll be hard pressed not to too !
A Nutshell Review : 881	881 is told through the eyes and viewpoint of Guan Yin ( local television heartthrob Qi Yu Wu ) , a mute who spends his free time playing with his cock ( yes , thus providing indirect bawdy comedic references ) , whose mother Auntie Ling ( Liu Ling Ling ) is the guardian of the Papaya sisters . The mother-son duo are the pseudo-managers for the sisters , responsible for designing the costumes and songs for the sisters to perform , as well as offer various event management services , ferrying them from assignment to assignment . Royston Tan does a Hans Christian Andersen here , for the Papaya sisters to realize their dream of performing on the song-stage ( given that they're really , really horrendous performers ) , they make a pact with a Getai-Goddess ( also played by Ling ) , who grants them the power of " feeling " and magical peacock feathers , in exchange for their strict adherence to her 5 unbreakable rules . They become the quintessential modern day Little Mermaids , but naturally , rules are meant to be broken with dire consequences , and 881 chronicles the ups and downs , trials and tribulations of the Papaya sisters , in the face of adversary posed by rivals , the Durian sisters . It's a musical through and through , with characters spontaneously breaking out into song , but not everything's fun and laughter , as the sisters do face their fare share of inner demons and challenges , and what's two sisters going to do when there's this understated nagging feeling of affection for their hunky close friend too ? Little Papaya Ong Bok Gua ( Mindee Ong ) faces an uphill battle with time , while Big Papaya ( Yeo Yann Yann ) has to convince her mother of her profession of choice once the Seventh Month comes rolling around . Granted , to some , getai singers do not get the general nod of approval , given the poor image that the high - and-mighty have on this little local sub-culture , that the performers can't sing , can't dance , can't entertain , and have to rely on loud bass to drown their poor vocals , disturbing the neighborhood ; the complaints go on . But opinions could change once they understand the spirit of things , and when the Papaya sisters shed their inhibitions and personal misfortunes aside , they engage everyone on a whole different plane altogether , of course with help from Ming Zhu sisters , real getai singers who provide the Papaya sisters their singing prowess . And surprise , the movie will actually touch you , on different levels . Those who like melodramas will find no lack of moments to let the floodgates open at their tear ducts , as the ending is particularly fitting , meaningful and yet , bittersweet . Despite a runtime of close to 2 hours , 881 shuffles breezily , with noisy fanfare moments balanced appropriately with quieter ones . I thought while Kelvin Tong's Men in White was an attempt at mo-lei-tau ( nonsensical ) comedy , 881 had a more natural attempt in infusing those elements into the story , without coming off as too trying . Given that the past two Royston feature films have more of a testosterone filled presence with male leads , 881 marked a stronger feminine presence with excellent , credible performances by Mindee Ong , Yeo Yann Yann and Liu Ling Ling , coupled with the Durian sisters played by MTV VJs May and Choy . They / their characters were a lot of fun , with their faux pas Hokkien language ability ramped up for laughs intentionally ( they can't speak the language and had to learn their lines phonetically ) , and their uber-crass and provocative performing sequences turning the heat up . T here's plenty on offer here for audiences , and they all work - drama , song and dance , comedy and camp , an appreciation and ode to the cultural elements of getai , with an expansion and provision to allow for greater understanding of the unwritten laws behind the scenes , the puns and wordplay to satisfy locals familiar with the language used , yet not alienating those who don't understand it thoroughly , and spectacle enough to warrant it being watched on the silver screen . This year had seen a number of quality local films making their way to the cinemas , and it is without a doubt too that 881 ranks high amongst them . By far , I will rate 881 as possibly the best Royston Tan feature film to date ! I will unabashedly proclaim I love 881 ( " yo-ah-yo ! " , so goes the chant ) , and have one wish should there be a DVD release of the movie , and that is to allow a release packed with loads of extras . Local DVD distributors have peculiar reasons for a preference for bare-boned DVD releases , but given the many edited song-dance segments , it will be a real treat if we could watch the performances ( if already filmed ) , in their entirety . Then it'll be " Huat Ah " ( Prosperous ! ) indeed !
A Nutshell Review : The Piano Forest	The Animation Nation film festival has been playing for about 5 days already , and because of my recent travel , I have not been able to catch some of the goodies screened in the last few days such as Sita Sings The Blues , and Bill Plympton's latest feature Idiots and Angels . Animation Nation is one of the more highly anticipated film festivals here given its consistently stellar programme lineup over the years , with plenty of animation fans who turn up in droves to catch the latest the scene has to offer . Japanese animation has always been well-received , and in the past the festival had scored a coup with the first screening outside Japan of Satoshi Kon's Paprika , as well as Makoto Shinkai's 5 Centimeters Per Second . This year's opening film The Piano Forest was one of the nominees in the 2008 Japanese Academy for Best Animated Film . Directed by Masayuki Kojima , additional screenings had to be provided for given the overwhelming response , and after watching it today , it's easy to see why the popularity and favourable response , and has cemented it as one of my favourite Japanese animated film as well , because it has a strong story to tell . We follow Shuhei as one of the film's main protagonist in his temporary move from Tokyo to a small town , and being the new student whose interest in the piano gets ridiculed by his class , he gets thrown a challenge to play a strange piano which is found in the forest , reputed to be spoilt , but comes alive at night as the melodic strains could be heard by folks outside . But classmate Kai brings Shuhei to this piano which he lay claims to , and indeed the majestic grand piano sitting idly deep in the forest doesn't respond to Shuhei's attempt to play it , but produces beautiful music under Kai's hands . It's a perfect , mysterious premise set up to pique your interest from the onset , and of course I'll do the story and to you the reader no favours should I dwell on this mystery any longer . But suffice to say that the story is one of the friendship and bond between the two school boys , who come from different backgrounds and possess different values . To Kai , he's the typical rich city kid who gets bestowed with material privileges and a classy hobby which he intents to turn into a career , no doubt also under the pressure of being his father's son . He can be quite anal at times , and takes pride and care to maintain his assets . In Kai is a spontaneous kid who lives a carefree life , with the piano in the forest being his outlet to connect with his seff , coming from a single parent home , with his mom presumably in the world's oldest profession . Comparing the two , one plays the piano as if his life depended on it , while the other plays from memory , observation and feeling like in trance . Nonetheless the two boys make for interesting characters , and for a 2D animated film , their characters are more than three dimensional , with very real human emotions built into them , and brought to life by the superbly clean animation without any useless fanciful trappings . It's a fantastic story about the human condition of enviousness of someone deemed unworthy , and the negative feelings of frustration when they get a leg up on you with opportunities that you crave for , which were given away nonchalantly . For those who are not familiar with the piano nor with famous music composers , fear not . There are ample scenes to give you a 101 on the basics , and Mozart's Piano Sonato K . 310 gets extended airtime here since it's a fundamental piece used throughout . Well placed humour was a welcome as well , celebrating the innate talents of Kai and his ability to charm and encourage others despite having his own demons to deal with . Although there were some Akeelah and The Bee-ish moments , with the set up for some head to head rivalry between the two boys , I thought that the teacher character Ajino Sosuke , a one time all - Japan piano champion , did look curiously androgynous . There's nothing supernatural to the film , but it comes with a terrific , rich story and a reminder of doing things that you enjoy , in the process yielding far better and satisfying results than doing things that you're tasked to do .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Swordsman ( 1990 )	Which brings us to Swordsman , or as the novel titled , The Smiling , Proud Wanderer , whom Chow Yun-Fat took on the title Linghu Chong role in a TVB serial of old . Swordsman is part of a loose trilogy of sorts , the sequels being Swordsman II starring an almost different cast in leading roles , and Swordsman : The East is Red , made solely to capitalize on the popularity of actress Lin Ching-Hsia who made her memorable comeback role as The Invincible Dawn from the second movie . Amongst the three , Swordsman is still my favourite , even though Swordsman II had more fantastical fighting sequences , no doubt made more exciting by the charismatic presence of pugilist Jet Li . Swordsman : The East is Red , was largely wasted , and save for Lin , none of the other cast members returned , and had a totally unrelated story from the original medium . Not that Swordsman stuck closely to the intended Louis Cha version . As mentioned , plot lines were compressed , and characters sometimes appear and disappear with hardly a fight . What worked , was how the movie managed to sample the spirit of the novel , and translate it for the screen . The script and plot was kept tight , and revolved around the intense search for a missing martial arts manual , called Kui Hua Bao Dian , which is known to give the practitioner extreme prowess , as demonstrated in the sequel Swordsman II , but with a price . Double crossings , hidden intentions , quest for power - these are familiar themes which are played to perfection by the characters , save for one pair , our heroes Linghu Chong and Kiddo , who are caught in the web of intrigue . In short , the movie pretty much summarized the battles and craftiness of the characters in their thirst for the book , and ultimately , we see the disillusionment of Linghu Chong in matters of " jiang hu " , as sung in the song Xiao Ao Jiang Hu . And oh , the song ! If there's a song that maketh the movie , Swordsman will immediately spring to mind . It's an infectious earworm , but what elevated its status rather than being just another song played during the credits or relegated to background music , was its involvement as a plot element , in the bonding of friendship , the expression of disillusionment , and also , being so integral to the development of the story , in the form of revelation of true intentions . Naturally , since the song is important , the God of Songs of the time , Sam Hui , was casted as Linghu Chong . There were reported protests against the casting of Sam , because of his lack of martial arts background , but I would like to beg to differ . Yes he's not a natural pugilist , but don't forget , the characterization is key upon deciding who gets casted . His interpretation and portrayal of Linghu Chong , in my opinion , is spot on ( miles better than Jet Li ) , bringing a dash of suave and impish slyness , together with strong vocals and that devil may care attitude . Stuntmen were probably roped in to handle the complex fighting stances , especially when Linghu Chong executes his Du Gu Jiu Jian ( Du Gu's Nine Swords ) , a reputable and formidable swordsplay technique able to counter any attacks , but hey , more than half the martial arts movie out there , have stunt folk fighting in the place of actors . The rest of the cast were also top notch , like Yueh Wah , Cecilia Yip , Cheung Mun and even Jacky Cheung in a rare villainous role , although it was a pity that for the sequel , almost all of them were replaced , yet by another strong lineup like Rosamund Kwan , Michelle Reis , Jet Li , and of course , Lin Ching-hsia . With a rich , strong story containing the essence , adequate interesting fighting sequences , awesome cast and memorable song , it's hard to find what's not to like about Swordsman . Never mind the rumoured reports that director King Hu actually walked out of the project halfway , and had folks like Ann Hui , Ching Tsui-Tong , and even Tsui Hark himself amongst others take over in a collaborative effort , this movie delivers , and will forever remain one of my favourites of the martial arts genre .
A Nutshell Review : Superman Returns	Superman returns ! And in a style befitting a worldwide pop cultural icon easily recognizable from that distinctively red-yellow S-shield . Being stuck in production hell for almost 2 decades since the last movie installment , Bryan Singer has resurrected the Man of Steel for the silver screen , with an all new cast made up of fresh faces and veterans , even Marlon Brando , as Jor-El . In the hands of lesser directors , it will be tempting to make a Superman movie consisting of mindless slugfests , capitalizing Supes ' invulnerability . Early drafts of a new Superman movie wanted to do just that . In the hands of unimaginative storytellers , this same invulnerability will also prove to be a bane , and therefore translate into a bore . Singer , based on his track record of his successful X-Men movies , in massaging multiple favourite characters and telling a compelling story , weaves his brand of magic into Superman , giving us not only what everyone would come to expect , but also an extremely important factor that makes this movie a winner - He humanized Superman . It's no easy feat , but he pulled it off wonderfully . Being the last son of Krypton , sent here like a messiah with powers to conquer , it is too easy to dismiss him as a boy scout on a mission to save the world from evil doers and natural disasters , and take for granted that he does what he does , because he can . Singer worked plenty of emotions into Clark , as well as Superman , in feeling the isolation of an alien in an adopted home , in always trying to pretend to be what he's not . You feel his pain that despite being around his loved ones , he will never able to always be there for them , because of his higher calling . There are scenes which makes you feel just that - Here's Superman , but OK , now that you're safe and sound , he has to go wrap things up , see you around later . A man yearning to shut out the outside world for quality time , but not being able to do so , for who he is . For someone invulnerable , Singer worked into the story , moments where his invulnerability wanes . And I tell you , even the most stoic critic of Superman , will feel pain and anger when that happens . It's as if Superman was a fellow human being , and seeing him subjected to the cruelties of nasty human thugs , just makes the blood inside you boil . You want to help , but obviously can't since it's just a movie . But you feel just that way . Brandon Routh , a relative unknown , filled the shoes well as the new Clark Kent / Superman . He bore some resemblance to the late Christopher Reeve , and at times even sounded like a youthful version of Reeve too . He did a commendable job in not being over-awed in a role which is under constant spotlight , and he is believable both as the Man of Steel , and as the bumbling Clark . I believe Routh will win fans approval worldwide for his portrayal , and it should endear him as another definitive cinematic Superman . I like the continuation of that bit through conversation that Superman doesn't lie . Kate Bosworth too did a great job continuing the film version of the tough as cookie Lois Lane , though here the character has mellowed somewhat because she's a mommy now . And it's always the little things that count , that she still smokes , still is a klutz at times , and an extremely nice touch to progress from the first two Reeve-Kidder Superman movies , she finally won her Pulitzer Prize , although it was for her story which stung with a criticism on why the world doesn't need Superman . ( Look out for that explicit jibe about the Oscars too ) . And not to forget , Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor , criminal mastermind . Brain over brawn . It's interesting that Superman's greatest enemy has always been Lex , a mere human , but with a desire to eliminate Superman , and here , Lex wastes no time by lapsing into mindless monologues when going one up against our hero . Spacey's Lex is slightly different from Gene Hackman's , in that this one had a little more comedic flavour , though not always intentional . Spacey hams it up a bit , and made it somewhat scary - you'll never know what is going on inside his bald head . And there are some scenes which just crack you up at times , like the gig with the toothbrush ( shan't say more ) . Lex's scenes were slow to begin with , but builds up into a megalomaniac's plot to become a landlord , again tipping the hat and staying true to the Hackman version . That means that there is no LexCorp , but that's just a minor upset . His array of wigs and headpieces are also included , and his female companion in Kitty Kowalski ( Parker Posey ) brought back shades of Eve Teschmacher from the 1978 movie , in having a thing for Superman and humanity in general . In reference to the earlier movies , Superman's ability to see through lies was also mentioned , and it worked into Lex's brainchild of an idea in having Kowalski put up as a sort of bait . Plenty of nice performances from the supporting characters , like X-Men's Cyclops James Marsden ( does he hold the honour of starring in superhero movies from Marvel and Dc ? ) as Richard White , the Superman alternative of a man who can always be there for you , the family man with no cares of the outside world other than his own family , and Frank Langella bringing veteran clout as Daily Planet's Chief Editor Perry White . Sam Huttington's Jimmy Olsen was a natural too , rounding up our Planet's crew . Singer's Superman might just bring all fans out in the open , and declare that yes , that's the Man of Steel whom we have been so familiar with , taking his rightful place amongst the better cinematic versions of other superhero movies .
A Nutshell Review : Shi Qi	Watching the movies in the festival to date , it's quite amazing how the first or early films of the directors in attendance are of immense quality , and whilst Joe Chow may be the youngest in the country currently , his Shi Qi definitely stood out as if it was a movie made by an assured veteran at the helm . Set amongst the She minority tribe , this film is essentially a mother and son story which I felt I haven't seen much of ( usually father-son ) , and with the casting of Joan Chen , it's no doubt that her star factor would have helped piqued curiosity about this film . At its core , it's about the said relationship between titular character Shi Qi ( Sam Chow ) who at the onset we see is at odds with his mother's perhaps stifling upbringing , and one made complicated by Shi Qi being abandoned to foster parents when he was a toddler , and reclaimed by Mom when he was 10 . To add fuel to the resentment , his foster parents have adopted his childhood friend Tian Yi ( Vision Wei ) instead , and watching him grow up with opportunities that could've been his own , just leaves a bad taste as he's stuck rooted in the village by Mom , and can't express his frustrations other than to rely on his talent for woodcarving . Sam Chow breathes inner frustration in his role as the teenager yearning to see the world outside , and the deep profound unhappiness he festers toward his Mom . It's easy for teenagers to identify with this , given the living under the thumb and watchful eyes of a parent whom you know you're the center of the world to her . And when parents get in the way and in the process causing you to miss opportunities , you'd sure would raise a ruckus . So while living a sheltered life , Shi Qi decides to leave the village , even though he doesn't exactly know how . What shone in the movie is the getting down to basics instead of trying to bite off more than it can chew , and through that sincere exploration of the relationship between mother and son , you're likely to see some parallels perhaps that would ring a bell on your own , at how sometimes we hurt the ones we love most without even realizing it . For the mom , her taking care of her son would seem to mean having him always by her side , though understood that she has lost him once , and would pain her if it happened again , thus her desperation in holding him back through some really adorable , and unworkable antics . And to the son fast growing up , his lack of acknowledgement toward his mom's good intentions , and his frequent brushing of her aside , would touch the hearts and make one feel guilty if one had done this insensitive act from time to time . Joe Chow managed to bring out the anxieties of both characters in their road trip on foot over a period of two days , where they had to trek the picturesque mountainous road from village to the nearest town where the city bus plies . Along the way , this reaching out and connection come to a role play of sorts , with each character taking turns to lead , or to try and turn the tables on each other , finding something to connect , or to bridge an understanding . The movie relied tremendously on the chemistry between the two actors to pull this off , and they were excellent par none . The score was hauntingly beautiful , and the film also captured the seldom heard , and dying art of the She tribe songs and music , which added a documentary like dimension to the film . Audiences here would likely be familiar with Joan Chen , especially when she had graced the screen in a number of local releases . Despite similar mother roles in movies such as The Leap Years , Home Song Stories and even Saving Face which I enjoyed , she brings to the table different qualities in those motherly roles , but I dare say her performance in Shi Qi ranked the best amongst all . She truly brought out the adage that a mother's love knows no bounds , and I guess without a doubt , you'll see a lot of the general motherhood qualities here put under the spotlight , that will make you think through some of the things you would have taken for granted . Not to mention too the amount of nuances she put in the role , that would likely demand a repeat viewing ( I smiled ear to ear when she quickly put her fingers to her ear when they retracted after touching a hot pot ) . While it's a small movie in the sense that it doesn't have big set sequences , it's nonetheless one that packs a powerful emotional punch , and captured plenty of heartfelt emotions and sincerity in its story , that it is difficult not to fall in love with it as well .
A Nutshell Review : Fallen Angels	I've got a strange affinity with Wong Kar-wai's movies , and they seem to somehow present themselves in reverse order to me , where often I find myself visiting his earlier works backwards . Like watching 2046 first before In the Mood for Love , or right now , watching Fallen Angels before Chungking Express , where I have both movies on DVDs sitting on the shelves , but decide to pick Angels before Chungking , knowing jolly well that this one came after , and was like the film that expanded itself so much that it had to break away and stand alone on its own two feet . Deciding between Chungking Express and Fallen Angels also boiled down to pure laziness on my part to want to pop a Region Free DVD into my default player , hence the latter . And I can't help but to chuckle at how Leon Lai's killer character Wong Chi Ming paralleled this laziness of mine , in wanting things on a sliver platter , of getting the preparation work all set out for him , and he just enters the scene with his swagger as the executioner . And the woman behind him acting as his agent and cleaning lady , is played by Michelle Reis . As his agent , she gets the contracts , does the legwork to draw up plans , and with time as she hangs out at his apartment to clean it up , she nurses an aching heart , knowing that perhaps in their profession , to fall in love would spell doom . And it doesn't take one too long to identify with such longing , of being so near yet so far , and she exorcises her unrequited passion by either visiting the places he visits just to hang on to his lingering presence long after he's gone , or by pleasuring herself on his bed . Kinda kinky , don't you think ? While Chungking Express dealt with the relationship issues that two cops had to experience ( from my fuzzy knowledge of it anyway ) , Fallen Angels seemed to be its evil twin , again dealing with relations of the heart , but now from the viewpoints centered on two criminals , one in Lai's character , and here the other in Takeshi Kaneshiro ( who was also in Chungking Express ) with his mute He Zhiwu , who breaks into shops and plays plenty of make belief . In his story arc , his unrequited love stems from his chance encounter with Charlie Young's Charlie , who too suffers a broken heart , but goes over the bend . In fact , I would have thought that Eating Air took a huge leaf out of certain aspects of their courtship , especially with the lovers on a bike careening through Hong Kong's underground highways . And Charlie Young I thought did substantially more than the flower vase roles she's more famous for perfecting . While Zhiwu can't speak , it is perhaps this arc that has a lot to say about love in classic WKW pathos . We listen in to the thoughts of Zhiwu as he narrates them in Mandarin voiceovers , such as topics of relationships having their expiration date , and the keeping of someone's memory alive . With Chi-Ming , he consciously rejects someone who takes an extreme liking of him , to go for a random , temporary lover in the form of Karen Mok's Blondie , who again might be another throwback to a similar character back in Chungking Express . But being cautionary here , is yet again the tale of not incurring the wrath of the wrong woman , though I chose to interpret the events in his story thereafter as being one of a set up , or a fix , versus just being a case of coincidental bad luck . And you cannot get away with not talking about frequent WKW collaborator Christopher Doyle's cinematography in this film , with its obtuse angles like a fish eye twitching all around with plenty of kinetic energy , boasting of shots within shots with its use of captured mirror images . Time lapse also gets used quite frequently , giving it a sense of broad fast forwarding motion , with the devil in the details treated quite casually . With a variation of Massive Attack's Karma Coma by Roel Garcia featured in an eclectic soundtrack , it already bowled me over with its collection of songs featured , whereLove stories that don't go anywhere except to serve as personal reminders , familiar pathos as presented by WKW , a star studded cast and excellent visuals and music , easily make this film one of my firm favourites . I suppose I shouldn't waste too much time before embarking on my journey onboard the more illustrious Chungking Express .
A Nutshell Review : The Dark Knight	The Dark Knight is a brilliant film . Everything was done right , stemming from a totally rich and in depth story that never failed to deliver its punches where it mattered , and frankly speaking , caught me off guard a number of times with its superb sleight of hand technique . Every one of the A-list cast lived up to their potential , and evergreens from the previous movie like Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine , have a lot more to do this time round . This is hands down THE movie of the year for me to date , and it'll really take a lot to knock it off its perch . I suggest you rush out of the door right now , get yourself tickets and watch it . I'm going to do so again . I believe in Christopher Nolan , and Bat-fans around the world would have followed suit too .
A Nutshell Review : Sione's Wedding	It's early into 2007 , and I've already got one contender for film of the year . Sione's Wedding from New Zealand has this impeccable charm to it , and it's been a delightful surprise watching this at only the one hall it is currently screening at . I suppose most guys at one point or another have been " brothers " during wedding ceremonies , either to shield the groom from pranks , or to actually put him through one of your own . Sione ( Pua Magasiva ) is getting married , and the last thing he wants is his friends from his ex-brotherhood " Duckrockers " gang ( check out that hand signal ! ) ruining his big day with their madcap antics , things like shagging the bridesmaid in the bridal car , or drinking until drunk . The focus therefore is on the quartet of Albert the respectable office insurance worker ( Oscar Kightley , who also co-wrote the script ) , Michael the courier guy ( Sione's brother ) blessed with good looks , a hot bod and routine womanizing ways ( Robbie Magasiva , brother of Pua in real life as well , who will also star in an upcoming movie co-produced by Mediacorp Raintree Pictures called The Tattooist ) , Stanley ( Iaheto Ah Hi ) who is infatuated with the voice of Latifah , a girl whom he only rarely communicated over phone-chats , but yet to meet up in real life , and Sefa the non-committal type of guy who frequently ditches his girlfriend to attend parties with the Duckrockers ( played by Shimpal Lalisi ) , Their dilemma comes in the form of the community pastor , who banned them from Sione's wedding , unless they can prove themselves to be responsible in their actions and not spoil the wedded couple's day . And with the counter-proposal by the guys , they want to prove that if they turn up with committed dates , they should curtail their nonsense , and be allowed entry . So a deal has been made , but the problem is , these guys actually are your usual slackers , and have immense difficulty in living up their end of the bargain . I think that every guy could identify with one or more of the buddies here , never mind if they're Kiwis , as relationship issues are always universal . You have the shy type , the one who can snag one night stands at the snap of his fingers , the one who refuses to spend more time with his loved one and prefers time out with the boys , the one who's always fantasizing that his online counterpart is a hot blonde chick with a killer bod , and so on . You can slap them with caricature labels , but to do so will be unfair , as the actors take pains to ensure their characters are believable and realistic , and delivered on their performances . But the mood's not always serious - this is actually one heck of a fine comedy ! The dialogue lines are extremely witty and at times subtle , and there are many well timed humorous moments that will catch you off guard , balanced nicely with plenty of heart warming scenes . Rare are movies these days which offer a healthy balance of the two , and it makes Sione's Wedding very refreshing to watch , never boring at all . While you can see certain subplots developing in a certain way because of familiarity , rest assure that the delivery in this movie is excellent enough to offer its own take on these deja vu development , especially the one involving Princess ( the beautiful Maryjane McKibbin-Schweke ) or Tania ( Madeline Sami ) . Filmed in Auckland , and accompanied with an awesome , if seldom heard , soundtrack , Sione's Wedding is a must watch for those in love , relationships or attended that quirky wedding or two . The characters are lovable , the issues real , and you'll get a glimpse of how a Samoan wedding gets conducted . A much much mature version of The Wedding Crashers two years ago . Two thumbs up , a must watch !
A Nutshell Review : The Diving Bell and the Butterfly	I can't imagine myself being stuck and trapped in my own body , where it becomes a prison cell . Unable to move about freely having lost all my psycho-motor skills , with muscles refusing to obey my mental will , and being robbed of all ability to communicate , save for the movement of an eye and an eyelid . You want to scream and tell everyone of the pain you're suffering from , and you yearn to respond normally to questions and interact plainly with people . You try , but you just can't . That was the world of Jean-Dominique Bauby . Based on a true story of a man inflicted with such a rare cerebrovascular disease , The Diving Bell and the Butterfly is his book , dictated alphabet by alphabet , about his life and his monument ordeal , burdened on a man at the top of his career , being the editor of fashion magazine Elle , and seemed to be living up the good life . In a stroke , the life he was knew is no more , and all that's left is his left eye , his imagination to bring him out of his imprisonment , and memories , good and bad , from which to reflect upon . The easy way out is of course giving up hope and professing his wish to die , but with the help of a committed team of hospital staff , he managed to find some meaning and soldier on in this strange , second half of a life . In some ways , the encouragement of subject matter experts do help , in trying to reach out from within oneself , and pull one out of depression , despair and hopelessness . And he's lucky too with the team of Henrietta ( Marie-Josee Croze ) , his speech therapist who devised an innovative though tedious way for him to communicate his thoughts , Celine ( Emmanuelle Seigner ) his physiotherapist in helping to get him move , no matter how minute such movements were , and the patience of Claude ( Anne Consigny ) who is probably given the most monotonous of all responsibilities , tasked to patiently take dictation , alphabetically , to help Jean-Dominique Bauby complete his autobiography . Through such interactions , even though he feels akin to being in a diving bell ( hence the title ) bringing him deeper into the depths of the ocean in solitude , each individual find their niche area in which to connect with Jean-Dominique , and in doing so , find new friendship , and companionship even . What strikes you at first is the cinematography adopted for the movie . It opens quite blurry , in an out of focus fashion , with a couple of fades to black . Then you slowly realize that you're watching events unfold through a pair of eyes , as your view is restricted to what's straight ahead , and the angle as provided by a rotating eyeball . I would say it's very well done , as it goes for as realistic a look as possible , even deliberately blurring things in the field of vision that the brain is not focusing on , which reminds me of what Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind did for the replaying of memories . This eye for detail ( pardon the pun ) serves the movie very well as it puts us in the driving seat of being in the character , coupled with hearing his thoughts , which at times are witty and comedic , in order to keep oneself sane ( as with the leering of and lingering on the female chest area ) . But before you cry foul at yet another shaky-cam movie , director Julian Schnabel doesn't fall into the temptation of presenting the entire movie in this fashion . There are periodic third person and the more conventional storytelling methods adopted as well to bring you out of Jean-Dominque's mind and consciousness , which could be quite depressing I suspect for an audience if dwelled upon for too long . Emotionally , it's a deeply moving film , as the story inevitably allows you to feel some empathy for Jean-Dominique , and more so when we witness the helplessness of friends and family in trying to come to grips with what had happened . I guess one of the hardest fact to accept is that while you know he's listening to you , communication comes with a barrier in the form of a proxy , and such indirect methods on one hand is unsatisfying , but on the other , you just have no choice at all . Actor Mathieu Amalric has to be applauded for the wonderfully restraint acting . He can't move most of his muscle groups even if he wanted to , not when the camera is on him . If there's an award for actors who can act through one eye , then this performance must be it . You feel his pain , sorry , happiness , fear , entire human emotions all coming through being an inevitable cyclops , as he struggles and finds untold inner strength . The frankness of his monologues , employed to tell us about his thoughts and desires , make for an all rounded character , not wanting to artificially present just the good parts , or bad . The rest of the supporting cast helped made this movie pretty engaging , no doubt the key female characters in Jean-Dominique's life being quite the eye candy themselves . The Diving Bell and the Butterfly well deserves the accolades bestowed upon it , and it is likely to do well in the upcoming Oscars too . This is one highly recommended that you cannot afford to miss as it makes its premiere on the local screens . A must watch , most definitely , put this amongst the top of your list in this crowded January week !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Memories of Murder	I've always taken a liking for serial-killer crime thrillers such as Se7en or the more recent Zodiac , because the cat-and-mouse game between the killer and the cops never seem to tire out , at least for me , and especially so if they're based on real life incidents which add a sense of realism in the stories that are told . It can be wavered off as implausible , because there were real victims who fell under the cunning of the killer . Korean crime thrillers have so far been a mixed bag though , even if those like Voice of a Murderer were based on unsolved true incidents , because in the hands of less able directors , it's always easy to lapse into laziness in making the film , applying quite standard narrative types involving chronology , and what happens next , or over dramatizing elements of the story just to amplify emotions of pity and anger , or worse yet , become a bland whack-fest , hyping on gruesomeness and gore as spectacle . And here's where director Bong Joon-ho , who went on to make the superb The Host , excelled , in sailing with an even keel in the presentation of Memories of Murder , making it extremely memorable , and went beyond your standard crime thriller fare by deftly gelling together all elements in the movie , into one keenly felt film . Memories of Murder recounts possibly South Korea's first serial killer , who went on a spree between 1986 and 1991 with 10 women brutally raped and murdered , and sparked off an intense investigations which involved some 1 . 8 million cops and 3000 suspects , as the prologue would have us believe . Song Kang-ho stars as Detective Park Doo-man , a small town cop with little experience in investigations of such nature , and it's slowly revealed too that the police of those days possess very rudimentary skills and equipment to handle crime of such nature , coupled with the complexity of having to deal with curious villagers and onlookers who contaminate each crime scene . In comes Detective Seo Tae-yoon ( Kim Sang-kyung ) from Seoul who volunteered for this assignment , and you have your big city versus small town rivalry , as the two of them can't see eye to eye in various matters , especially when it boiled down to extracting confessions of convenience from prime suspects , in order to wrap up the case and call it a day , dished out from in your face beatings by Park's sidekick Kim Roe-ha ( Cho Yong Koo ) . Under a social and historical backdrop of martial law , we see how questionable methods get employed , and how sloppy investigations can get , at times relying on questionable and unorthodox methods involving torture . It is this constant interplay of opposites that keep the viewing engaged throughout , especially with the incessant challenging of individual cop's beliefs and investigative philosophies , which at times can dwell on black humour , such as the profiling of hairless men . All the lead cops in the movie no doubt will grow and come out of this experience changed , such as how small time cop gets forced to open his mind and widen his horizon , and how the constant frustration at being hit with red herring after red herring , of being so close but yet so bloody far , just adds on to the complexity of the case that this is not your simple criminal , but a cold and calculated serial one . There are a couple of elements that I particularly enjoyed in the film , such as how opposites almost always bring about a clash , be it of values or methods employed , in particular how Detectives Park and Seo come to blows , one a believer of his own sixth sense ability , while the other a follower of paper and documentation . Director Bong also crafted an element of comparison between the macho cops and a rather soft prime suspect , one you would probably not have put on your radar , who just appears , and I couldn't help but to draw comparisons with David Fincher's famous Se7en and Zodiac , which were made before and after this one , where it is fairly clear of certain similarities between this film and Se7en with its incessant rainy setup , while Zodiac shares the same frustration with this one in the cops ' inability and impotence of not being able to crack the case in front of them , resulting in an increase in body count . Nothing beats having to know the MO , but being powerless to do something about it . Best of all , Bong Joon-ho knows how to craft a thriller with action at the right moments , and they need no be big-bang types , but sequences which were highly effective in bringing out adrenaline . He did that for this film , and for The Host , and without a doubt I begin to feel that he understands the material at hand in order to craft them for the pleasure of an audience sitting through it . I still have one more of his earlier movies on DVD format yet to be watched , and I hope to pop that into the player once I savor this masterpiece once more . Highly recommended , and it sits in my mental list of great serial killer crime films .
A Nutshell Review : The Host	This movie has already been much hyped because everyone is wondering what the Koreans saw in it to make it a resounding box office smash . So does it live up to expectations ? Yes , in a different way . What I'll include below will be suitable more for a post viewing read , although most will probably have some prior knowledge about the movie from its trailers and poster . If you don't mind mild spoilers , you can proceed , until the part where I'll warn you about something major . Watching this film will make you laugh at its comedic moments , feel a tinge of sadness in others and it might make you cry , or pound your heart with suspense , and will even satisfy the action movie lovers with some sequences . It's like a big pot of rojak - different ingredients mashed together , blended perfectly into a 2 hour long journey of pure entertainment with serious messages . At the heart of it is a tale about family . Here , given its genre , there's no all-empowered super being or man's man who goes on a one man crusade against the beast . It's about what an ordinary family doing the extraordinary by digging deep and finding strength from within . The portrayal by the lead actors are quite believable , as you feel their pain , frustrations and idiosyncrasies as they go about trying to achieve their mission despite the odds . One thing's for sure , family ties run deep , with emphasis on unity , not individuality . There're some key observations made about the human condition , how naturally curious we are when we spot things not normally seen , instinctively whipping out cameras to take pictures , and how we innocently provoke without realizing . Not too subtle jibes are made at how bumbling authorities are , and on the pompousness of the US forces in assuming control over the situation , sidestepping what they probably know as the real cause with a presentation of a smokescreen . Here's where the major spoilers beginThe monster ! ! I absolutely have to blabber about it ! I was half expecting Godzilla pounding through the streets of Seoul and pulverizing buildings to a pulp . But wait ! The Host came up with something pretty refreshing - this monster , is midget ! ( if compared to conventional notions of what a monster would be ) . Herein lies one of the breakdowns in genre , but tenacity and nastiness is not measured on size alone - it's menacing and merciless when the time calls for it . The creation of the monster came from a fictionalized imagining of a real life scenario gone wrong , with regards to the lack of respect to the environment , and on toxic pollution . If Godzilla was created in the nuclear age to highlight its dangers , then this being was created because of mankind's preference for the easy way out - through the kitchen sink . The bugger looked beautifully ugly , but thanks to its excellent special effects teams ( one of which is WETA , yeah , THAT WETA ) , it moves with slick grace and agility , I would even say it swaggers stylishly , It is so realistic , that never for a moment you'll think you're watching a cheesy monster flick ( even though rubber suits are nostalgic ) . Major spoilers end The music is yet another plus point as it brought out the mood and plays with your emotions as well . The sound department has its work cut out in designing a unique roar , and you'll feel terrorized as if you're there on location as the creature rampages . For good measure , you might want to stay until the end of the credits for a little easter egg , and especially if you're watching it in a hall outfitted with a decent surround sound system . All in all , two words : Highly recommended . Goes into my shortlist of movie of the year too ! P . S . I don't know why , but I was swearing at some parts of the movie ( eg . " RUN ! ! " ) together with another group of strangers . We were having a hellishly good , fun time during the screening . Awesome !
A Nutshell Review : Electric Shadows	During last year's visit to the Hong Kong International Film Festival , it gave me an opportunity to take in first hand and provide for some exposure to Chinese films , specifically those that were made in China . Amongst those that I've seen , I was blown away by the quality of storytelling and craft , and had wondered how soon after would I have the chance to watch something from China again , since our local cinemas don't really bring them in for mass consumption . Hence , this film festival was like a godsend , putting together some classics of the past , together with contemporary offerings from the new generation of directors . The Festival name might be a mouthful , but its objective is no doubt succinct - to introduce us to the magic of Chinese cinema once again . Electric Shadows opens the festival , and by and large I've heard some really good things about it . The DVD has been available for some time already , but procrastination meant not picking it up , so having it screened as the opening film was no excuse anymore to miss it . And it's no surprise that I fell in love with director Xiao Jiang's first film , which is one with such a compelling story and fine acting , I would think one would likely have a heart of stone not to like it for some reason . The film's opening introduces us to the character of Mao Dabing ( Xia Yu ) , a water delivery boy who spends the bulk of his wages watching movies in the cinemas . I chuckled at this obvious identification , of someone spending his free time at the movies , and being completely lost in them as a form of escapism from the mundane repetitiveness and perhaps loneliness in his day job . While we follow his point of view for the most part at the beginning , that perspective shifted to a mute girl he encounters , who for no reason pounded his head with a brick , and destroyed his company sponsored bicycle . Persuaded to help her look after her fish while she has to inevitably get detained by the authorities , Dabing thought that he had reached seventh heaven when her apartment turned out to be one huge home theatre . From there , the pace picks up , and we're transported to some 30 years back into the Cultural Revolution , and rewinds a little bit to the earlier generation . Electric Shadows has a bit of everything , even though some might like to compare it to Cinema Paradiso , I thought that this film had merits to stand on its own two feet despite the obvious comparison . It is its own movie , and while episodic , it never felt disjointed or had portions out of place , but gelled together seamlessly to weave an epic adventure of the story of a young girl Ling Ling , born at an outdoor cinema , and had cinema to be her companion during her formative years . As always , it's the mothers , here Jiang Xuehua ( Jiang Yihong ) an actress wannabe , who played a huge role in her appetite for films , and for her philosophy to lead a life with their heads held high because of her single parent status , leading to Ling Ling being quite a feisty little girl . It was a time where film screenings were communal in attendance and experience , in small towns where close knit villagers have that as common mass entertainment . Electric Shadows managed to capture the social and cultural climate of the times , and best of all , had a tremendous number of clips to snapshot various cinematic oldies and gems that you would be tempted to check out should you have the opportunity to do so , one of which is Shining Red Star which will be screened this Saturday . Against this backdrop , Ling Ling leads quite an eventful life , where the pace catapults with the introduction of Mao Xiaobing ( Wang Zhengjia ) , a scruffy kid from out of town whose mischievousness brings trouble , but for their love of movies which brought them together to be best frien uds forever , even though he prefers the action genre where he can make-belief he's the star of the show . Electric Shadows is such a charming film that you'd find it hard to believe it's actually a first film , balancing drama , comedy and tragedy even with great aplomb , although there were some series of coincidences in the events and characters that you'll find it easy to ignore for the whole movie to work . It's strength also came from the wonderful cast who brought their likable characters to life , and you cannot find better chemistry between the cast members even when some of them take up the same characters albeit for different age groups . You'll feel for mother Xuehua in her resignation to the bad hand Fate had dealt her , you marvel at the dedication of Pan Daren ( Li Haibin ) the projectionist , you laugh and cry at the antics of the children , especially those of Xiaobing and Bing Bing ( Zhang Haoqi ) the kid brother who seemed to possess such maturity in his innocence . It's been a long time since I was moved so immensely moved by a single film , and I'm glad that Electric Shadows shone brightly through and cemented its place in my mental list of all time favourite movies . With amazing cinematography and locales , and a score as performed by the China Philharmonic Orchestra , this is a must watch , a truly exquisite film to sit through , well worth your time and one for repeated viewings . I'm getting the DVD !
A Nutshell Review : Meet The Fockers	If this is a comedy year , then it's gotta be Ben Stiller's year , with films like Starsky and Hutch , Dodgeball , and now , a sequel to the hit Meet The Parents . It's a logical move , given the success to the movie , and a natural continuation to meeting the other set of parents , what more one whose family name sounds so much like an expletive . The film wastes no time in reminding you why the first was successful , with obvious jabs on the male nursing profession and his Gaylord M Focker name . The first 5 minutes sums up everything you liked about the first film nicely - " I'm Watching You " hand gestures , circle of trust , etc , before embarking on the inane journey to Focker Isle , where things get , a little crazier . Our favourite characters like the kitty cat are back , and joined with another madcap hump-everything-that-moves doggie . In addition , we have a baby on board who adds a new dimension to innocence . Although some plot bits are recycled from the first , like the use of hidden cameras by De Niro , and then playbacked for hilarious effect during the end credits , none of it seems contrived and you just wanna sit through and lap all of it up . Definite must see this holiday season .
A Nutshell Review : Crazy Stone	So far , the FOCUS : First Cuts series of movies have been rather mediocre . Taiwan's The Shoe Fairy was rather plain , Hong Kong's I'll Call You was concentrated too much on its effects , and Singapore's Love Story was just awful . The three aforementioned movies lacked a compelling story to tell , and I was holding my breath on how a movie titled Crazy Stone will present itself . I bought into it , hook line and sinker , within the first ten minutes . The opening scenes were a class act in editing , presentation , with a mixture of humour , and wastes no time in introducing the ensemble characters of the movie - an ex-cop turned Chief Security Officer , his Toto-fanatical sidekick , the arrogant crony of an unscrupulous real estate developer , a skirt-chasing photographer , a trio of bumbling crooks , and a professional thief who just has no luck . Directed by China's Ning Hao , Crazy Stone is one heck of a heist movie with deft touches in presentation . Never too flashy with its special effects , or repeating its non-linear narrative technique too often , it just about presents itself almost perfectly , keeping the audience constantly engaged throughout the movie . I can't finger a dull moment in any scene actually , and the real reward is when you pay attention to the little details , as these will be used at some point to deliver that awaited punctuation to the story . There're plenty of irony infused , which somewhat brings about certain pleasure in recognizing them . The sets are beautifully urban , and at times just plain ugly - the toilets just have to be seen . The casts are a joy to watch , and although relative unknowns , they bring out just about the best in the story , which is something like a Spy Vs Spy , cat and mouse , cloak and dagger game between the protectors of a piece of valuable jade , and the crooks who want to steal it for the various motivations they have . The story's akin to the guessing game of correctly selecting which cup amongst three , is a coin hidden under , once the cups are shuffled randomly with sleigh of hand , and to the characters , presents itself like a huge maze , set to an eclectic soundtrack . I don't get the opportunity to watch that many Chinese films ( and here I mean those made in China ) , and I'd say that if this is how a heist movie can beat , in my opinion , some of the fare that Hollywood churns out in the same genre ( not that they were fantastic , but I enjoyed them nonetheless ) , then I would be eagerly waiting for another Chinese movie from another genre proving itself to be amongst the best . This movie doesn't look expensive , and it's an apt reminder that it almost always boils down to the quality of the story , to make it a hit with a viewer . As with the other First Cut movies , a touch of Andy Lau is included , and though he did not star in a cameo here , his song " Wang Qing Shui " was featured in part ( I believe twice ) in the movie , though only in passing , but enough to ID it . Looks like his venture with these 6 films has uncovered a gem , and I'm secretly hoping the remaining films in this series - Malaysia's Rain Dogs ( Yasmin Ahmad in a role you know ? ) and Hong Kong's Parental Guidance , will also prove to be as entertaining , and refreshing . Crazy Stone will go into my list as a contender for one of my favourite movies of this year . It's a pity it's only screening at ONE theatre in Singapore , so make every effort to watch it , soon !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Sepet ( 2004 )	I've always been unable to answer confidently when someone asks me what my favourite movie is . You're learning it here first , I've found it . It is Sepet . I love this movie to bits . And I find it so unforgivable to have missed it when it was released on the big screen locally . But the question would be , why Sepet ? You'd know by now I'm a sucker for a good old fashioned romance . Sepet is one of those classic romances , with a contemporary touch , and a realistic take on love , life , relationships at all levels . It is honest , sincere storytelling , and having it ring so close to home , with a multi-religious , multi-cultural , multi-lingual take , just makes it endearing . It's not a Malay film , or Chinese film , but it's a Malaysian film , one in which a person like me , from across the Causeway , can and will definitely enjoy . Director Yasmin Ahmad has crafted two charismatic leads , in Jason ( Ng Choo Seong ) , the pirated VCD peddler with a penchant for poetry , and Orked ( Sharifah Amani ) the student . One's Chinese , the other's Malay , and Yasmin has weaved a loving story between the two , sans all misconstrued prejudices . We're drawn into their love at the start of their budding relationship from their chance encounter when Orked patronizes Jason's stall in a busy market street , and witness them grow in their affection for each other . The diverse family backgrounds are highlighted from the beginning . We see Jason reciting poetry so lovingly to his Peranakan mother ( played by Tan Mei Ling ) . He seemed closer to her than his father , and we learn that all is not too well between the squabbling parents . In a dinner scene with his family , we learn that his brother ( later played by Alan Yun in Gubra ) had married a Singaporean , and the relationship with the in-laws are not that cordial too . Contrasted with Orked's family , the loving parents portrayed by Ida Nerina and Harith Iskander , who share many a scene expressing their love ( which had irked Malaysian censors ) , and with a housemaid Yam ( played by Adibah Noor ) adding to the comical close knit ties within their family . But , cliché as I may sound , love knows no bounds . Sans race , sans religion , sans family backgrounds , love will find a way . We follow their courtship , and it isn't that these obvious differences are swept beneath the carpet . No , they were brought out , and we realize the challenges that lie ahead if our couple were to be together , and to challenge these misconceptions . But in typical boy-meets-girl , boy-loves-girl , boy-loses-girl fashion , we see how their relationship loses ground when Jason confesses to Orked to have impregnated another girl . To be " fair " , he did the deed before he became committed to Orked , but felt that sense of responsibility to take care of the other . It's somewhat depressing , knowing that he and Orked are a match made , but events that transpired before meeting your soul mate , came back to haunt . I thought deeply about this , and was wondering if there was any possibility about reconciliation and forgiveness . Sometimes there will be , sometimes there will be not , but sometimes they may come too little too late . And from what Yasmin told us , I understood the ending , why it ended the way it ended , drawn from her personal experience , and the emotions I felt . But therein lies a higher objective , which I thought was a respectable Wow moment . With the way it ended , I felt that yes , I believe that Yasmin has achieved with most audiences ( unless you're on the road to no redemption ) throwing away any deep sense of prejudice , to want the two leads to be together , after the fact that is akin to riding on a ferris wheel to the top , enjoying the sights , and then being thrown over . It dawned upon me the power of her story , simply told . The movie's also peppered with plenty of movie references and subtle jokes , besides the obvious ones which you laugh out loud . There are digs at society , and some events will make you ponder , like how Orked managed to get a scholarship with 5As , when Jason actually scored 7 , and got none ( hey , VCD peddler also got the smarts , OK ! ) The chemistry between the leads is so believable , that you cannot help but fall in love with both . Jason is the atypical sam-seng boy with dyed hair , dances a quirky dance , filial son , with a heart of gold . You might presume that Orked is the demure pint-sized girl next door , but inside , she packs quite an opinionated punch , which works in her favour when battling against prejudices . And the two of them put together , genuinely make a cute couple . The musical selection is beautiful , and I was initially surprised that Sam Hui songs were used throughout the movie . They were the evergreens in Hong Kong Pop , and contributed effectively to the mood of the movie . The cinematography too emulates picturesque moments when the leads are together , be it sharing a meal or conversation in a fast food restaurant , or sitting at a pier or a bus stop to wait out the rain . Things and situations associated with budding love . There are tonnes of films out there which are loud , brash , and easily forgotten once the lights come on . I've come to appreciate smaller films which are intricately crafted , a simple story with layered complexity , and something which can endure the test of time . A story that comes straight from the heart . I believe Sepet is one of them . I like . Code 3 DVD contains behind the scenes footage ( though I had hoped it could have more ) , and the trailer . How I'd wish there would be a director and casts commentary . : - )
A Nutshell Review : Conversations with Other Women	Conversations with Other Women is a talkie movie , along the same vein as Richard Linklater's Before Sunrise and Before Sunset , as it takes place in one single night of a wedding of a Man's ( Aaron Eckhart ) sister . He chances upon Woman ( Helena Bonham Carter ) , one of his sister's bridesmaid , and proceeds to flirt with her , in the hopes of getting lucky for a one night stand . And yes , they do talk a lot , but instead of the free ranging topics as in the Linklater movies , their conversation is focused mainly on relationships , and the games people play , in trying to be coy and hard to get . No doubt the many lines in the movie might be familiar , but they're full of wit and delivered through excellent performances by the two leads , this is definitely the surprise movie of the lot I've sat through this week . If Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy gave us the teenage and early thirties version about two strangers connecting with each other , then Aaron Eckhart and Helena Bonham Carter provides us the late thirties version in this movie , and more . The obvious thing that hits you when the movie starts , is the split screen . It is used throughout the movie , so it's as if you're watching two movies at the same time , but not quite . Technically , Conversations is very strong , as it takes balls for filmmaker Hans Canosa to pull this off , not to mention the editing which would drive anyone nuts ( for the record , he did the editing himself after his editor gave up , and he used only Final Cut Pro to do what you see on screen - the product gets a credit too with the Apple logo ! ) . The split allowed for parallel narratives to play out simultaneously , for flashbacks and for emphasis , and more importantly , brought out the best in the leads . Why ? Simply because they have to act the whole time through , no shots over the shoulder where you can idle when the camera's not on you , or editing used to cover bad takes or flubbed dialogues , or something that perturbs me - lines said by the person who's back is to the camera , when obviously the movement of their chin gives everything away . Gone too are boring talking heads , as here , you get to see the lines delivered and the reaction from the other party , at the same time , without the camera flinching . In order words , the leads gotta be consistent throughout given the camera is on their every expression . Indeed a challenge which Eckhart and Bonham Carter There's a separate reason why I would want to watch this movie in the first place , and that's to observe Aaron Eckhart's performance , as he's pulled off many superb character actors in movies like Thank You for Smoking and Black Dahlia , and I'm confident that he'll be able to pull off Harvey Dent in The Dark Knight with aplomb . As Man who's succumbing to the weakness of the flesh , his desperation comes with a reason , only to be revealed in due course . Helena Bonham Carter was last heard in Wallace and Gromit , and Corpse Bride , and it's indeed high time we see her back on the big screens again . Come to think of it , the last time I saw her in a movie with a substantial role was way back in Fight Club . Here , her Woman is intriguing as to her intent and purpose , and no doubt you will inevitably cast that questioning eye on her . A word of caution , if you want to be surprised in the movie , don't go to IMDb and look at their plot keywords , as it'll give everything away . What makes this movie work is to go in fresh , listen intently , get blown away by the excellent technicals employed , and in fact , it makes you think all the way through the end , as little details get dropped along , and provides you ample time to piece everything together . It's not a boring movie , contrary to those who think that talkie movies are . This movie has an excellent witty script , and delivers emotional punches where it should . And the ending is something that will be in your head for a long period of time after the lights come on . Recommended stuff !
A Nutshell Review : Dr Strangelove or : How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb ( 1964 )	The first thing that strikes you from this 1964 classic , is the extremely long title ! Directed by Stanley Kubrick ( 2001 Space Odessey , Eyes Wide Shut ) and starring the talented Peter Sellers ( the Pink Panther franchise ) , this film touches upon the use of nuclear weapons , or the lack of controls thereof . In this nuclear age ( and during its infancy at the time of the film's release ) , this question is always in the backburner : Who is given the authority to launch these weapons of mass destruction , and what controls are there to prevent the authority from being abused ? The film begins with one crazed US general being able to order the B52s in the air ( Cold War time , these bombers are always in the air to strike targets within 2 hours ) to attack the Soviet Union with its nuclear bombs . The US President ( Sellers ) questions how this is so , and the very plausible reason being , if a sneak attack happens on US Soil and on the US Government , then there must exist a system for the lower echelons to launch retaliatory strikes . Which was what happened , except that the US was not under attack . Sellers is excellent in his multiple roles as a British officer attached to the crazed US general , the US President himself , and Dr Strangelove , a Nazi scientist turned US Presidential adviser . Now that the US is seen as the aggressor , Sellers turns in a fine serious performance as the President , who has a lot of answering to do to his Soviet counterpart . However , tables are turned when the Soviets confirm the existence of their doomsday device , which on one hand sounds absurd , and on the other , raises the stakes for the world's survival . What appeals in this movie is that , given its various serious theme , Kubrick manages to inject wicked humour into it effortlessly , like the sexual innuendos galore ( the riding of the phallic shaped nuclear bomb , the talk of bodily fluids ) , yet keeping the audience fully aware of the gravity of the situation . This is definitely one of my favourite movies of all time . And Seller's performance , need I rave more ? The Code 1 DVD contains loads of features , but of most excellent value are the documentaries , one on Kubrick's claim to fame and his movies , and the other , close to an hour's worth of Dr Stangelove's making of details .
A Nutshell Review : Be With Me	This is the third feature length film of internationally renowned local director Eric Khoo , and given the hype of this film's response in Cannes , I'm sure many in Singapore are eager to watch it , given that Eric Khoo's last movie , 12 Storeys , was a long 8 years ago . Meant To Be An old shopkeeper longs for his loved one to continue to be with him . He opens the movie by closing his shop , drawing us instead into his private life , where we see him alone , aloof , and in pain to see his loved one suffering in sickness . Try as he might , there is nothing he can or will do , or is it ? When you're with someone you love for so long , what does it mean to lose him or her ? Will you also lose the will to continue leading a meaningful life ? Or will it away in a mundane fashion ? Tying in with Theresa Chan's autobiographical tale , this segment is touted by most as the strongest and most touching . Finding Love A timid security guard Fatty Koh is a secret admirer of a high flying executive , and longs for her to be with him , somehow . An infatuation , a crush , how do you bring yourself to declare your feelings for someone , when you're shy , and knowingly aware of the huge social divide ? With a letter . Where you are given time and composure to write your thoughts down , hoping to bring the right message across , and harbouring the hopes of acceptance . We see Fatty fighting his inner shy demons as he carefully pens a letter of admiration for his dream lover . Fate seems to be against him , as he cannot seem to concentrate with the ruckus from the neighbours , and from his own family where he's looked down upon . At times it's like a look back into the life and times of the timid fat lady in 12 Storeys , who incidentally , appears ( as a different cameo character of course ) in this segment briefly . He steals glances at his love when at work , and hangs around the perimeter of her home after work , worshipping her from afar . He's like a gentle giant , never meaning any harm , but probably coming across as a desperate stalker . Love conquers all some say , but will it ? So In Love Ezann Lee plays Jackie ( note the androgynous name ) , a lesbian who longs for her new lover , Sam ( played by Samantha Tan , note the androgynous name too ) , to be with her . Most teenage / young adults in the audience will definitely be pretty familiar with this stage of puppy and experimental young love , which was given a modern retelling showcasing relationships in the era of pervasive computing devices - Internet Messaging and Short Message Service . And of course having two pretty young leads in non-conventional roles do help too , They first meet online , and we follow their new shared lives as they finally meet in person , doing things couples do like watching movies , go clubbing , hanging out , shopping , the works . Everything seems lovey-dovey , happy-go-lucky , doesn't it ? However , the motive of Sam getting involved with Jackie is examined , and the universal theme of unrequited love comes to the forefront . What happens when a lover is suddenly spurned by the other , when all along you thought that everything was going wonderfully well , and you see a future with the other half ? You'll be terribly hurt , but what will you do , especially when lied to ? Was everything just one big illusion ? For folks with weak hearts , being lied to is like having a tonne of bricks collapsing onto you . Like a cautionary tale of being responsible with feelings and not toying with those of another , it is a reminder that as fast as these perceived love begin , it is never as easy to erase it from one's life like deleting an incoming SMS message . The narrative introduces us to the various characters from the 3 segments , intertwining their lives with one another in brief moments . The style used in the movie is different , where we begin with the introductions of the segments until forlorn conflicts in each sets in , hanging us in the balance where we ponder and reflect the futility of each character's actions thus far . Until we're introduced , in more detail , to Theresa Chan's inspiration life . One of difficulties and immense challenges , but one who exudes courage to face up and tackle life by the bull's horns . Losing both sight and hearing , Theresa is a double handicap . To many , we take our senses from granted , until we lament the loss of one . But what about two , without warning ? Will we be able to find the same courage within us to smile and carry on living ? Theresa's life story is told , not by narration , but by subtitling . We read in silence her struggles and life filled with chance encounters which made her stronger . As mentioned , her life story is read by the old shopkeeper , integrating her tale into Meant To Be , taking center stage in the middle of the film , and leading all the segments of the movie into its closure . This is mainly a silent film , not that it doesn't have any dialogue , but rather the characters have more silent time than speaking lines . Kudos to the cast for having to really express their thoughts through body language and facial expressions - this film really does plenty of close ups . I highly recommend this brilliant yet unconventional film . It has something for everyone , be it touching on your personal experiences in love and life , or simply reminding you of the good things you have in life , or inspiring you to do a lot more . Life's full of ups and downs , but it is the perspective in which you view it from , which matters . The choice is yours .
A Nutshell Review :	In some strange twist of Fate , the local release of recent Pixar movies always had us here twiddling our thumbs wondering when it'll finally make its way to the screens , while we hear the accolades ring from the rest of the world in marvelling at the quality that Pixar continually churns out . It's likely that the distributors want to coincide the release with the local school holidays , but frankly , the money also comes from the adult crowd , as testament to this full house in one of the largest screens downtown during a late night screening with nary a noisy kid in tow . And I may sound like a broken record , but Pixar has done it again . Quality stories with quality animation , and it kept the run time to a manageable under 100 minutes , compared to the previous offering Ratatouille , which clocked near 120 minutes ( or actually felt that long ) . I never expected WALL·E to pack in such a strong emotional punch , not that Pixar has never animated non-living objects before ( such as Cars ) , but there's a certain child like innocence appeal that WALL·E possesses , that makes him very charming , and very endearing to the audience . As a Waste Allocation Load Lifter-Earth-Class , Isaac Asimov's Robot directives has him firmly and dutifully carrying out his duties of compacting Earth's rubbish , as the last of its class on Earth to clean up the mess . Humans have now polluted the world so much that they took to Space in Star Trek inspired ship designs , to live out there while WALL·Es take over to do some massive spring cleaning . Until of course , our WALL·E becomes like The Last Man , erm , Robot on Earth with a cockroach companion , acting and emoting superbly that puts Will Smith to shame . The fantastic thing about WALL·E is that it can tell so much by so little . The first few minutes establish everything we need to know about the current world , and paints a very humanistic , soulful value to the dusty , dirty and rickety robot . He ( see what I mean ? ) has a lot of eccentricities , and in performing his duties , develops quirks and becomes a collector ( of junk ) of sorts , which allows the creators to pump in plenty of sight gags and inside jokes ranging from sound effects ( I swear my Apple is now a WALL·E pre-cursor ) to paying homage to movies such as 2001 : A Space Odessey . In essence , WALL·E is a love story in human terms , where the boy tries hard to get the girl , only to have her spurn his advances . EVE ( which stands for Extraterrestial Vegetation Evaluator ) is WALL·E's object of affection , who got sent to Earth as a probe for life . And my , she's a difficult one to handle , being state of the art , as well as packing a mean self-defense mechanism that makes breaking the ice really difficult . Not to mention as well , a fiery temper to boot . Which means our guy has to really try , and try hard , to break that wall down . Poor thing really , because all he wanted to do , was to hold her hand . The Beatles would have been proud . But of course you'll have to throw in tougher adversary and events to make it all the more worthwhile in WALL·E's pursuit of EVE , which spans lightyears and a plant that becomes the catalyst for their romance . A lot of the movie takes place on board The Axiom , the human ship where a vision of the future is presented , which metaphorically holds a mirror up to ourselves in our over reliance in technology that we're beginning to grow sideways , and not noticing the things that nature has in store for us , human to human communication , and the things that matter . It also has an soft environmental message and stance thrown in , but done so subtly that you wouldn't feel that it's being preachy and a turn off . I hate to admit it too that the movie turned me into a big softie , especially its clichéd finale , where you know what will happen , but yet want to second guess if the filmmakers could be so heartless with an ending that I thought would really make me shed a tear . However , it's Disney after all , and when you think of merchandise opportunities , then business sense prevails . WALL·E deserves every acclaim that it's got , and let me contribute mine too . If you have time to only watch one animated movie this year , or want to bring your kids to one , then make no mistake , WALL·E is the perfect choice , without a doubt , hands down . It makes it to my books as contender for the top 10 movies of the year . Highly recommended stuff , and the leads don't even speak much save to call out to each other ! Oh , do put your bum on the seat early too , as with all Pixar features , there's always a short that preluded it , and Presto is nothing short of hilarious , and a crowd pleaser to rouse the audience into a frenzy before the main act takes over . I guess it's high time I purchase the collection of Pixar shorts available on DVD as well .
A Nutshell Review : Firaaq	If I were given a chance to give out an award during this festival , then Firaaq by Nandita Das would be my choice for the best film I've seen during the festival . And it's quite amazing in itself being a first film of the accomplished Indian actress , that it's laced with sensitivity while at the same time tackling some hard issues head on that deals with the deep rooted negative human condition of hate and violence . Set against the backdrop of the aftermath of the 2002 Gujarat riots between the Hindu and Muslim communities in Gujarat , India , it's an ensemble film with a myriad of characters in multiple story threads which involves a Muslim family who returns to their home only to find it burnt by rioters , of a mixed marriage couple who has to deal with their fears and decision to leave Gujarat for Delhi , of a woman who gets haunted by the ghosts of the incident , and punishes herself for her inaction , of a group of Muslim men all flustered and planning for revenge , of a young orphan wandering the streets , and the list goes on . In each of the threads , which for the most parts are independent of one another , Nandita Das weaves very moving stories and crafts very interesting characters to function within each story , either serving as a mouthpiece for keen observations , or highlighting very deep rooted fears . The film doesn't flinch from making harsh criticisms or statements through dialogues and interactions between characters , and Das manages to paint characters on both sides of the equation , some exhibiting bad behaviour even when confronting their prejudices or when confronted by their fears . If I could draw a parallel to an established film that Firaaq gets close to , then it will be Paul Haggis ' Oscar winner Crash . One can imagine the human rights violations committed during the tense period , and it's quite natural to see how the outcome of such violations through the mob mentality , affect the common man even after the tumultuous period had passed over , because deep inside , we all know that some prejudice are hard to eradicate . I thought the story of Sameer and Anu was one of the most striking of the lot , and most enduring as well , though with each protection dished out by the wife , the husband feels more insecure about his manhood . Some of the most direct and pointed conversations happen when they are on screen , especially how one's inherent self-preservation mechanism kicks in and would go through anything as extreme as a name change to avoid another extreme such as being stripped to verify identities . The final act was actually quite chilling , and I felt it could cut either way , depending on your outlook . One , that it is of hope , that with the next generation lies opportunity to bury the past and forge a new future ahead filled with better understanding , and the appreciation that such violence should never occur again . On the other hand , it reminds of how impressionable a young mind is , and through the wandering within a camp , taking in the sights of the aftermath of atrocities committed , that the seeds of revenge could have been innately planted , and being ready for improper indoctrination for further atrocities to be committed , some time in the future . It's extremely difficult , but not impossible , to break the stranglehold that violence begets more violence . For a rookie director , I feel that Nandita Das has demonstrated that she has what it takes to join the illustrious ranks of female Indian directors in telling very mature stories through assured technique . Firaaq is a shining example , and I hope to see more of her directorial work again soon . Definitely a highly recommended movie in these troubled times of ours , to hold a mirror up against oneself , for some serious self-examination within .
A Nutshell Review : Evening	Based on a novel by Susan Minot , Evening is a story about complex relationships , love , and family . It's drizzled with deep regret , about letting the one walk away , of not having the courage to live out the life you want , constantly allowing societal notions and norms , or how you want others to perceive you , take the unfortunate precedence over what really matters . It zooms in early on the deathbed of Ann Lord ( Vanessa Redgrave ) , where her two children Nina ( Toni Collette ) and Constance ( Natasha Richardson , real life daughter of Redgrave ) take turns to stay by her side , and in doing so , make ample room for their different viewpoints on each other's lives to come into clashing distance . At the same time , through their mother's subconscious murmurings , they discover a hidden life that their mother never discussed about , and wonder just what the juicy details are . In this respect , Evening has two separate narratives in two different timelines , and constantly flips from one to the other , but deftly doing so without making the audience lost or confused . In the earlier timeline , we begin with Ann ( now played by Claire Danes ) and good friend Buddy Wittenborn ( Hugh Dancty ) en route to attend the wedding of his sister Lila ( Mamie Gummer , and if you think she resembles Meryl Streep , then yes , because she's her real life daughter ) , who through body language confesses to them both that she's having second thoughts about her impending marriage , because of her still nursing an old flame affection for hunky doctor Harris Arden ( Patrick Wilson ) , the son of their family's caretaker . And as the story develops , we see how relationships turn , some for the better , though it may be fleeting , while others turn for the worse . It's always a bitter pill to swallow when you discover your affections are only on a one way street , and how uncertainty play a big role in making your life miserable . As the adage goes , you sometimes can't marry the one you love , but you surely can try to love the one you marry . The depth of a woman's heart knows no bounds , and truly , the many characters here have numerous compartments in their hearts for deep dark secrets and hidden desires , coupled with some regrets . I enjoyed how the story unfolded when one is on the deathbed . Seriously , the way I look at it , I too would start to reminisce before I kick the bucket , about the life I've led , whether it was fulfilling and meaningful , and any regrets that I would have that still bugs me before I go meet my maker . If I were to have one gripe on this sad movie tinged with so many regrets , is how the story in between the timelines seem to be non-existent . The one that got away somehow wasn't fully materialized - it was suggested in part , and played on one rather disparate scene , but other than that , there was very little linkage , and you start to wonder if it's because of the guilt both parties felt , of choosing not to be around when tragedy strikes , that led to their coming together being an improbability . Evening turns out to be a very tragic love story , as warm shades of orange turn slowly into cold hard gray . Like movies with predominantly female characters such as White Oleander and Little Women , Evening boasts a stellar cast with numerous award winning actresses in their own right , coming together as an ensemble for one picture , but pity they don't get to interact all together at once , given the split in timelines . Even powerhouses Meryl Streep ( who plays the older Lila ) and Glenn Close ( as Mrs Wittenborn ) were featured separately , which is a slight pity . But their sheer presence , even if they only have supporting roles , more than lifts and add gravitas to the overall picture , where everyone fed off the collective energy of one another , providing excellent performances . It's not a date movie per se , but one that will surely initiate some long hard look at the state of your relationship , and ponder aloud with each other your take on the various issues presented , and provoke discussion into how the characters handle their situation .
A Nutshell Review : The Home Song Stories	The Home Song Stories made its debut at the Berlin Film Festival earlier this year , and I've waited a long time for it to come to our shores . A joint Singapore-Australian production , it's an autobiographical story of writer-director Tony Ayres ' childhood , of what he remembers about his mother , a songstress who uprooted her children and migrated from Hong Kong to Australia , and their struggles to etch a living surviving in a strange land . When watching the film , I can't help but to remember Alfonso Cuaron's Great Expectations , where Ethan Hawke's Finn narrated a line early in the movie , stating quite clearly he's not going to tell the story the way it happened , but rather he's telling it the way he remembered it . And this rings very true in Ayres ' Home Song Stories . Stories from within are always heartfelt and sincere , and that's what this movie brings across - the feeling that it's from deep down , and that of honesty . Like how the movie started with the Chinese oldie " Bu Liao Qing " , mirroring the style the story was told and the narrative being measured , powerful , and very meaningful . What made it work was the excellent acting all round . Of late I've enjoyed Joan Chen's movies these days , compared to her earlier works ( like Judge Dredd or On Deadly Ground ) . Aging like fine wine , her maturity brings about certain gravitas and also likability as she takes on more adult roles , and it's no doubt my favourites were her motherly roles in Saving Grace , Jasmine Women , and now , Home Song Stories . Here , she plays Rose , one who lives on the fast lane in Hong Kong , with some untold secrets from the past . In order to give her two children the best life she could , she milks her looks for what it's worth because of her lack of ability and skill , and for some reason , succumbs to her weakness for men quite easily , falling fast and falling hard , flitting from man to man , being unlucky in love , and providing some headache and embarrassment for her children , who do not know what to make out of the " Uncles " that come through the door . And Qi Yuwu , no doubt bolstered by his cinematic appearance in 881 , gets a meatier role with dialogue . He stars as Joe the illegal immigrant , the young man whom Rose falls for , and becomes surrogate father to her children , and yet , having this threatening air that he has some ulterior motives set on Rose's daughter May ( Irene Chan ) . You might think he's a cad , what with his 70s look and that glint in the eye , but overall , he's someone whom you'll compare with Bill ( Steven Vidler ) , the Australian sailor whom Rose comes to Australia for . Putting both Bill and Joe side by side and the choice is obvious for Rose , but alas , the ditzy indecisiveness of womanhood causes great despair amongst her loved ones . More so for her son Tom , played by Joel Lok . The narrative stems from his point of view , and Lok is the absolute winner here , in fleshing out Tom , the kid who lives in his fantasies , a form of escapism to a very confused childhood . You might think that he's able to take the blows in his stride , but I guess everyone , including a kid , has his own patience . You feel his pain , his confusion , his tears as he struggles to understand his mother's actions . He loves her , yet hates her , and Lok displays a masterful performance here that you might think he's a veteran . This kid's charming , pure and simple . There are many plus points in this movie which makes it exquisite , and the wonderful songs used accentuates the era of that time perfectly . What made it work too was that the characters aren't forced to speak only one language , highlighting their multi-lingual nature quite naturally as they converse in Cantonese , Mandarin and English , which makes it seem more realistic rather than staged . It showcases growing pains really well , of relationships amongst siblings and with a single parent , and what I thought was one of the most powerful run up to an unforgettable scene , was a reminder that when dealing with people , to always be mindful of the hateful words we use . They might be said in the fit of a moment , but they always hurt bad , because everyone has feelings . Like the Chinese saying goes , once it's uttered , it's extremely difficult to retract , and the consequence of it could be damaging or devastating . At its core , The Home Song Stories evokes painful memories , but also brings about the notion of forgiveness , remembering and honouring those memories . A mother's love knows no bounds , even if she behaves in a manner you cannot quite grasp at the moment . Stay tuned when the end credits roll , as you get to see a little more of Ayres ' life and times , and of course , his real mother , put together in a photo montage . This is one movie which you definitely must watch this week . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Gone Baby Gone	While Ben Affleck has gotten a number of flak for his acting ability or lack thereof , there is no denying that his directorial debut with Gone Baby Gone deserves the accolades bestowed upon his work , as he directs younger brother Casey in a tale about the seedier side of private investigation , but stripped of noir elements and immersed totally in the wheeling and dealings with plenty of grey . Casey Affleck and Michelle Monaghan play the couple Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro who owns a private investigations agency dealing with missing people . Theirs is a small outfit , but they're the go-to persons when you need a second opinion aside from the official investigations by the authorities , the ones who can speak to those in the underbelly of society , whose denizens for obvious reasons refuse to speak to cops . They get called upon one day when the relatives of missing child Amanda McCready ( Madeline O'Brien ) sought their help to augment police investigations , and as far as statistics go , entering the investigations at this point in time is like entering a fight with one hand tied behind your back , and reluctantly , they decide to first explore their options and study the background , before taking the case on . It's a fantastic interplay between Patrick and Angie starting off with the latter's fears that results may come in the form of finding the body violated , or in some dumpster . You can't deny that try as you might to emotionally distance yourself from the crime , the fact that it involves innocent children will still somehow grow on you . Worse , the single mom Helene McCready ( Amy Ryan ) is a drug junkie , which of course presented an additional angle with regards to parental responsibility , and more often than not , you'll find yourself disgusted with her white trash antics . While the movie coasts along quite ordinarily in presenting both case facts and narrative development as the investigations wore on , what cemented Gone Baby Gone into greatness , is its final 20 minutes . Adapted for the screen by Ben Affleck and Aaron Stockard based on the Dennis Lehane novel , it's filled with incredible melancholy , and ends on a somewhat emotionally sad note with great personal sacrifice . I can't recall a crime thriller of late that gripped you with the finale , especially when many pretenders tried hard , but failed miserably . There's an excellent debate between doing what's right , and what's necessary by the book , although the yardstick of measure definitely differs from person to person . Sometimes , you're stuck in similar catch-22 situations , that it be damned if you do or don't . Depending on your values and principles , you might be called upon to undergo deep questioning of oneself about turning the blind eye and walking away , but unfairly given the constraint of time working against you . I haven't seen much of casey Affleck's work except for his short appearances sharing the screen with the bigger names in the Ocean's 11 franchise . I thought that Gone Baby Gone allowed him to shine through and convince that he can be a leading man , though not necessary single name marquee yet . Michelle Monaghan however continues with her supporting female roles playing love interests and such , and I guess it might take a while before she's able to break out of the stereotype . Morgan Freeman and Ed Harris lend gravitas to Affleck's movie , and show that they can still chew scenes despite their limited screen time . Gone Baby Gone has surpassed expectations , and comes highly recommended from me . You might be surprised at the developments at the halfway mark , and might think there's an error in the runtime , but trust me , that's just where the fun begins and the movie picking up from strength to strength .
A Nutshell Review : The Girl Who Leapt Through Time	The poster of this animated movie looks a little suggestive , but nope , it's actually a wholesome time travel movie which explores a little on the vestment of such powers to a klutzy individual , as well as relationships , and the perennial question of what would anyone do if you have the ability to go back into time , and make changes presumably for the better . The Girl Who Leapt Through Time tells a wonderful story centered on 3 friends , the tomboyish and clumsy Makoto Konono ( voiced by Riisa Naka ) , and two hunks Chiaki Mamiya ( Takuya Ishida ) and Kousuke Tsuda ( Mitsutaka Itakura ) . Theirs is a friendship formed after school at the baseball court where they spend quality time talking about typical teenage stuff . Things start to change however , when Makoto by accident gets the power to time travel , and in her own ditzy way , uses her new found abilities for " good " - directly for herself , or in some Emma like moments , to influence the outcome of relationships for her friends and play matchmaker . And that's just scratching the tip of the iceberg . While it's animation style is kept simple and fairly straightforward , it doesn't compromise on the complexity of its storyline . Not that it serves to confuse , rather you'll be amazed by the amount of pathos the story contains , with its various subplots especially when the time travelling stuff kicks in . It has adult sensibilities in the treatment of the plot , and knows exactly when to hit the right emotional chords when warranted . Although based on a book , the story here serves as a quasi-sequel of sorts which takes place some 20 years later , what I can say is that the love stories intertwined has its major one being able to touch like that in Be With You . I loved that movie , and watching how this bore some similarities , you can't help but feel the same emotions coming across in the same way , nevermind that the characters here are animated , as you can feel the pain , the love , and their despair . And that is something that I should say is difficult for the genre - they're not real persons on screen - but yet being able to evoke emotions and for one to react and empathize , definitely makes it powerful , and a cut above others . Something that our local animated films had failed to do in giving us cold characters and bastardized stories from folklore . But it's not always all the time serious in tone or mood . The movie has light hearted moments , sometimes bordering on the slapstick , no thanks to the bumbling Makoto character . In a sequence , it was reminiscent of Chinese Odyssey starring Stephen Chow , where each time travel moment gets played ad nausem with different comedic effect . Undoing blunders as we see is not exactly Makoto's forte , and while she may be using her powers in a carefree way , with great powers come great responsibilities ( sorry , can't resist that one ! ) As usual , anyone can find fault with the time travel paradox which rears its ugly head in any time travel movie , but I would suggest that you park those thoughts aside , and enjoy the story that the Girl Who Leapt Through Time is telling . There are slight attempts at addressing it with its creation of totally new and different realities with each jump , but even then a major paradoxical flaw still exists . At its lowest denominator , the film reminds to seize the day like it's your last , do what's right , and don't be shy in telling someone how you feel about them . The Best Animated Film of the recent Awards of the Japanese Academy , this film gets my vote of support too with its superbly emotional and touching tale , and with its similarities to that aspect of the film which I like to Be With You , it will be no surprise if this movie finds its way to my Top Ten of the year . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Mukhsin	Mukhsin is a beautiful movie about a first love story . Everyone probably has one , and this is writer-director Yasmin Ahmad's story of hers , with a boy called Mukhsin . We know that her movies have been semi-autobiographical of sorts , having scenes drawn upon her personal experiences , and it is indeed this sharing and translating of these emotions to the big screen , that has her films always exude a warm sincerity and honesty . Mukhsin is no different , and probably the most polished ad confident work to date ( though I must add , as a personal bias , that Sepet still has a special place in my heart ) . Our favourite family is back - Pak Atan , Mak Inom , Orked and Kak Yam , though this time , we go back to when Orked is age 10 . The characters are all younger from the movies we've journeyed with them , from Rabun to Gubra , and here , Sharifah Amani's sisters Sharifah Aryana and Sharifah Aleya take on the roles of Orked and Mak Inom respectively , which perhaps accounted for their excellent chemistry together on screen , nevermind that their not playing sibling roles . The only constant it seems is Kak Yam , played by Adibah Noor , and even Pak Atan has hair on his head ! Through Mukshin the movie , we come full circle with the characters , and the world that Yasmin has introduced us to . We come to learn of and understand the family a little bit more , set in the days when they're still living in their kampung ( revisited back in Rabun ) , where Orked attends a Chinese school , and packs some serious combination of punches ( and you wonder about that burst of energy in Gubra , well , she had it in her since young ! ) . The perennial tomboy and doted child of the family , she prefers playing with the boys in games , rather than mindless " masak-masak " with the girls , and favourite outings include going with the family to football matches . The arrival of a boy called Mukhsin ( Mohd Syafie Naswip ) to the village provides a cool peer for Orked to hang out and do stuff with - cycling through the villages , climbing trees , flying kites . And as what is desired to be explored , the crossing of that line between friendship and romance , both beautiful emotions . Mukhsin does have its cheeky moments which liven up the story , and bring about laughter , because some of the incidents , we would have experienced it ourselves , and sometimes serve as a throwback to our own recollection of childhood . In short , those scenes screamed " fun " ! We observe the life in a typical kampung , where some neighbours are very nice , while others , the nosy parkers and rumour mongers , spreading ill gossip stemming from envy . There are 2 additional family dynamics seen , one from an immediate neighbour , and the other from Mukhsin's own , both of which serve as adequate subplots , and contrast to Orked's own . As always , Yasmin's movies are filled with excellent music , and for Mukhsin , it has something special , the song " Hujan " as penned by her father , as well as " Ne Me Quitte Pas " , aptly used in the movie Given that the Yasmin's movies to date have been centred around the same characters , the beauty of it is that you can watch them as stand alone , or when watched and pieced together , makes a compelling family drama dealing with separate themes and universal issues like interracial romance , love , and forgiveness . Fans will definitely see the many links in Mukhsin back to the earlier movies , while new audiences will surely be curious to find out certain whys and significance of recurring characters or events , like that pudgy boy who steals glances at Orked . And speaking of whys , parts of Mukhsin too is curiously open , which probably is distinctive of Yasmin's style , or deliberately left as such . I thought that as a story about childhood , recollected from memory , then there are details which will be left out for sure . And subtly , I felt that Mukhsin exhibited this perfectly , with not so detailed details , and the focus on what can be remembered in significant episodes between the two . Another highly recommended movie , and a rare one that I feel is suitable for all ages - bring along your kid brother or sister !
A Nutshell Review : Children of Glory	Nobody likes to be cheated against in sports , especially so when participating in national level events , and worse , having a supposedly neutral referee awarding dubious decisions that work against your favour , even if it's clear cut they're either receiving some kickbacks , or are genuinely blind . To the Hungarian water-polo team playing against their occupiers the Soviet Union in the 1950s , it meant bowing to rough tactics and having no respite at all . Perhaps what took me by surprise , is how rich the production values are for this movie . Like films set against an historical backdrop , such as Black Book , Lust , Caution and the likes , Children of Glory never scrimped at fleshing out the masses who got themselves involved in the 1956 Hungarian Revolution , where a simple protest in a university spiralled into armed resistance involving thousands marching through the streets , showing their dissatisfaction of mistreatment by the Russians , and the usual chants of " Russians Go Home ! " . While on a macro level it introduced us to the era of Soviet occupation in most of the eastern Europe bloc , this is essentially also a love story , between a national hero of a water polo player Karcsi Szabo ( Ivan Fenyo ) and student activist Viki Falk ( Kata Dobo ) . Naturally their relationship doesn't start off smoothly , with a clash of ideals given that Karcsi is in a privileged position for his value to the country in sports , and having more to lose if the status quo is changed . For Viki , it's change that she , and her fellow student leaders , want to initiate , no matter how small their actions are , but soon enough , it became a hydra that went out of control , giving them a little victory , before the big sledgehammer of a retaliation when any typical authoritarian regime respond with their military might . I guess with those in power , and having those who privilege themselves under such conditions , change will always seem threatening , be it to current lifestyles , or fear for their lives . It might appear selfish as demonstrated by Karcsi's mother in self preservation , constantly reminding Karcsi of his duty to win medals for his country , and not to mix with negative influences such as Viki , associated with trouble for her bearing of arms , and being part of the inner circle of the change movement . But we know love can't keep these two apart , right ? What made Children of Glory a delight , was besides the scenes of historical value , and its recreation of street battles , it had possibly the first water-polo sports game in a movie I had watched , and filmed it with plenty of excitement that you can't help but to cheer the Hungarian team on as they battle for pride , and for their countrymen's struggles back home , as they meet arch nemesis Russia during the 1956 Melbourne Olympic games , resulting in what was a bloody match in the pool . I thought this segment was very well shot , though you had to really sit through the film to be rewarded for a segment toward the finale . Wonderful acting , rich costumes and sets , together with a blend of history to lend some narrative gravitas , make Children of Glory an excellent movie on many fronts . I like it enough for it to make it to my highly recommended list , and contender for the top 10 movies of the year list .
A Nutshell Review : Transformers	Growing up in the 80s , you can't help but take notice of the Transformers toys which can change from various vehicles to robots , or the cartoon series which had a pretty good run , with its fair share of spin offs having different character variations ( Headmasters anyone ? ) , settings in outer space , 3D animation ( Optimus Prime as a mean looking gorilla ) , all great symbiotic marketing strategies between the toys and the cartoons . But one thing about the animated series though , both the Autobots and the Decepticons had lousy aim , which the Movie ( 1986 ) sought to correct , and " traumatized " ( well , at least me when I was a kid watching this ) kids with mortality for the beloved bots . When Michael Bay was announced to have taken over an updated movie version of Transformers , I was a bit apprehensive , especially when character designs started to leek , and I admit , they were not really pleasing to the eye , and most , if not all , had vehicle model updates . So if anyone's a stickler that the characters must look like their animated originals or the toys , then it is likely you'll probably not enjoy the movie since you can't stand the sight of blasphemous character designs . There are some liberties that the cartoons take , which the movie tries hard to address , especially with the transformation bits , designing which part goes where instead of hiding unwanted bits ( especially wheels ) magically , though broad strokes for certain characters were maintained . But I'm glad to say , this IS a Transformers movie , albeit a little updated in Michael Bay style for the big screen , a worthy summer popcorn blockbuster which delivers and satisfies . It bears Bay's signature style , and truly , it was one heck of an adrenaline ride from start to finish , pausing only to allow you to breathe a little ( with some comedy which might not be everyone's cup of tea , like that call-center bit ) , before ripping everything up again . It's loud , it's noisy , with the usual camera work you'd come to expect from Bay's brand of total mayhem when he unleashes the action . There are times when the intricate character designs work against the movie in the action sequences though , with too many details on screen , and the robots seem to be collapsing in a heap of metal when they clash head on . But these scenes of robots clashing in an urban landscape were mighty realistic , as are the slick transformation sequences , and will leave the fan boy inside you whooping for joy . Fans should be pleased with the effort that went into the live action movie . I was grinning from ear to ear with the little sly bits of references incorporated , like the classic transformation sound effects inherited from the cartoons , and if you keep your ears peeled , you might pick out lines here and there which were reminiscent of the cartoon series and the animated movie back in 1986 . The scene in the autoshop with Bernie Mac was fun , especially with the jab at having an actual Volkswagon Beetle parked beside the new look Bumblebee ( which I thought behaved like Herbie the Love Bug for the most parts of its introduction , despite the update in look ) . There were some inevitable Bay movie references like the flare bit for signalling which was a tad too obvious , and some 360 degree cameraThe story's not as bad as I would expect it to be , but it's nothing to shout about as well , being but just a vehicle ( pardon the pun ) to move the story from action sequence to action sequence . It managed to cram quite a bit in its 143 minute run time , especially in its many human fronts on dealing with a perceived invasion - you have an updated " Spike " ( Shia LaBeouf ) and his new girl Mikaela ( Megan Fox ) being caught in the thick of things with their direct friendship with the Autobots , a group of soldiers led by Captain Lennox ( Josh Duhamel ) dealing with Decepticon attacks in the Middle East , and Secretary of Defense Keller ( Jon Voight ) trying to understand the situation by enlisting a group of hackers , which includes Maggie ( Rachael Taylor ) . As you can tell , the humans have quite a bit going on , and Transformers allowed them to get in on the action as well , making it man versus machine too . Plenty of things went right in my opinion . The casting of Peter Cullen to voice Optimus Prime was a major coup in lending this movie some credibility , as is the replacement voice of Megatron with Hugo Weaving's . The filmmakers too addressed the issue of Megatron pretty nicely - the handgun will just not work in a live action film , and would especially be stretching it a bit should the handgun turn into a gigantic robot . The selection of the Autobots was probably ideal in having Ironhide , Jazz , Ratchet supporting Bumblebee and Prime , leaving the rest for possible future movies . Prime's sympathy for humans again gets exploited by Megatron ( though most times verbally , which got repetitive ) , and what was quite lacking , were the weapons . Prime's black cannon , if I'm right , only managed a very brief appearance , as does Megatron's , as the battles are more fist fights rather than laser gun battles ( which they might miss ! ) And was that Prime's Autobot Leadership Matrix peeking out of his chest ? Watching the Autobots roll out on a highway brought out the goosebumps , and with the door being left open for follow up movies , should this do well in the box office , then we can expect more rolling , and the advent of more characters ! And if rumours of the coming of Unicron are correct , then we all know what to expect of Megatron .
A Nutshell Review : Kingdom of Heaven	Kingdom of Heaven in 2005 will be what Gladiator was in 2000 . Ridley Scott has delivered a worthy follow up to his Oscar winner , which is also based on medieval times , with a central heroic character , and supporting casts of characters based on history . The sets are as spectacular , instead of just Rome and the Collesuem , we have the Middle East and Jerusalem . The costumes are beautiful , from intricately remade Knights armour , to the desert garb of the Muslim warriors . The soundtrack is a mixture of sounds with middle eastern influences , but somehow pales in comparison with Gladiator and lacks a central theme . Much is said about how the film portrays religion , given the sensitive subject of the Crusades , but I feel that Ridley has achieved a wonderful balance between how Christianity and Islam are portrayed . Both are given fair airtime on their ideologies , and the film tries to preach ( pardon the pun ) about tolerance , yet highlights the dangers of fanatical followers of both religions , of misguidance from men in search of worldly power . Which Christianity took a beating - where senseless battles are waged in the name of Christ , where insensitivity breed contempt . Preists are cast in negative light and given lines like " convert to Islam , repent later " when all around seems lost . It is emphasized in the show that what matters is in your head and in your heart - that noble actions speak louder than mere empty and repetitive " praise the Lord " chants , as if that will protect you during Judgement Day . Orlando Bloom plays Balian , a blacksmith who became a fugitive , but inherited land and army from his father , Godfrey , played by Liam Neeson . The film can be broadly categorized into 3 acts - the first in which Balian searches for his identity and new life in Jerusalem , the second in which the focus is on religion and politics of the time , and the last , the spectacular siege and war . Bloom puts up a commendable performance , so to his detractors out there , you're in for a big surprise . Edward Norton had the difficult task of acting through a mask as leper King Baldwin , and I applaud Ridley's decision of casting real Muslim actors to learn from them . Fans of Eva Green might be disappointed that the relationship between Balian and Queen Sibylla was played down to focus on the battles , but I feel it's a fair trade off . Firstly , some of you might not like the quick-cut-MTV style editing in Gladiator's fight scenes , especially the close ups . This is repeated here though , in a blood splattering manner . The pan-out and general landscape sweeps are mindblowing , and will leave you wanting more . Think about the battles that you see Lord of The Rings Two Towers and Return of the King - the siege on Helm's Deep and Minas Tirith - Kingdom of Heaven delivers the equivalent , probably even better ( without the fantasy elements ) . This is one medieval war movie whose battles will stick in your mind for some time . The audience were the only disappointing experience for me - they were laughing at a dialogue near the end , where a " knight " asked who Balian was , and he answered " I'm the blacksmith " , in which the " knight " answered " I'm the King " . Laughter was abound in the theatre . I was like , HELL-O people ! See that lion motif on his armour ? That's Richard the Lionheart ! D'uh ! The Crusades didn't end there , it waged on . . . What is Jerusalem worth ? Nothing , everything . Watch this , and in my opinion , it has Oscar written all over it . Now to hit the library and research more on the subject !
A Nutshell Review : Kung Fu Panda	It seems like this is a movie made for all the fanboys out there , regardless of what their obsessions are about . You know , being one who idolizes certain somebodies or some things , and given a day that Fate decides to throw you a curveball and give you that one opportunity to come up close and personal to meet and greet your idol in the flesh , or be thrown into the exact situation that you've always been dreaming about . What would you do , and would you go weak in the knees or be overcome with disbelief that you're actually , finally , realizing your dream ? Panda Po ( voiced by comedian Jack Black ) epitomizes exactly that in Kung Fu Panda , and that struck a chord in me and with many in the audience as well . And for that , no matter how clich� the story would become , it had already done its deal and made the connection . It is no wonder it is rated G here , and I expect that the holiday season would allow cash registers to ring , for animation fans with the different styles utilized to tell the story ( you must be on time and not miss the opening sequence ) , for kung fu fans to get a kick out of classic kung fu moves personified in their animal forms - Tigress ( Angelina Jolie ) , Crane ( David Cross ) , Mantis ( Seth Rogen ) , Viper ( Lucy Liu ) and Monkey ( Jackie Chan ) - collectively known as the Fearsome / Fab Five , and for the kids , given the obvious reason that hey , the protagonist is a cuddly bear . The marketing department , if not already done , should stock up on the plush toys , not only of the hero , but the supporting casts as well . And make their younger forms available too , for they will sell . Story-wise , I can't help but to note its tip of its hat towards the Jackie Chan martial arts movie of the past like Snake in Eagle's Shadow , Eagle Shadow Fist , etc . The formula which follows a misfit with weak or zero martial arts background having to undergo harsh training under a kung fu master , finally realizing his true calling in time to defeat the villain everybody fears . With the Jackie Chan movies , the demise of loved one always trigger off a chain reaction , but since this is G-rated , you won't have the pleasure of having blood spilled , but with so many splatter-type movies in recent times , I have to admit this was refreshing , and even having animated animals that talked , didn't irk me as they are just so lovable here , in their own right . It's an excellent and very even mix of comedy and drama , even though they are quite clich� at times if you grew up with the formula , but I thought that was the point . While the trailers might have given away some stuff , there are still lots more available which are hidden up the sleeves , and some minor word replacement such as " suck " to " stink " , though you would likely be able to stay a step ahead throughout and even guess whatever secrets the movie have , actually are . For its stylistic training sequences , they became a throwback and a link to the fore-mentioned Jackie Chan movies . The fight choreography isn't done shoddily too with its designing of fights true to the characters ' forms , and integrating them all in a manner rarely seen before . Since it's an animated flick , it was able to , and probably ramped up whatever's possible in the kung fu fantasy realm , to give us everything from rooftop flights to an incredible prison break . It didn't waste any effort in tapping from the wealth of kung fu material , what with the various names of deadly moves , secret manuals , teacher-student feuds , and the best part of it all ? Humour being quite unexpectedly well placed , with more hits than misses to break out into a hearty laugh by the panda antics . For all its A-list voice actors in the movie , with the likes of Michael Clarke Duncan , Dan Fogler , Ian McShane and those who provide voices to the 5 key animals , Kung Fu Panda is clearly a Jack Black and Dustin Hoffman vehicle . The bantering between the two is priceless as the latter plays Sifu ( duh ) the master teacher , a highly-strung and serious character who has a past they are shameful about ( don't they all ) . And as his own teacher Oogway ( read : Wu Gui , aka tortoise , voiced by Randall Duk Kim ) advises , herein lies an opportunity for Sifu to rediscover himself when training possibly the next-big-thing ( pardon the pun ) Po , whom he foretold as the mythical Dragon Warrior . So begins the forging of friendship , long lasting bonds and trust between the two , even though they got off the wrong footing . And you can probably feel for Po , because for a fanboy type , having your idols scoff at you at first opportunity , is actually quite painful . As a kids movie , there's almost always a message to take away . Here , it's a reminder to believe in oneself , which I guess is a universal theme to instill some confidence in the young ones . You might not look the best , nor are the best amongst your peers , but so long as you have that attitude to want to learn , that should put you in good steed . As a summer blockbuster movie , it's fun , thoroughly entertaining , and doesn't try to be too smart . It's likely to be a crowd pleaser across all age demographics , and an ultimate popcorn fare , so long as you manage to keep the popcorn away from the thieving hands of the panda . And with this release beating local film Kung Fu Gecko to the screens , I wonder what's the status currently on the Nickson Fong project .
A Nutshell Review : Constantine	I haven't read the Hellblazer comic books by DC / Vertigo , so I do not know much about the John Constantine character , or how the show deviates from the comic books . However , without background knowledge , this is one excellent movie , with great characterization of biblical characters like Archangel Gabriel , Balthazar and even Lucifer himself , plot and subplots , special effects and music . The movie starts literally with a bang , and it never lets up after that with its even pacing . Keanu Reeves has proved that once again he is master . To his detractors , I'd say hold your horses , watch this show , and chances are you'll be a fan convert . Rachel Weisz , wow . Hell has never looked as good ( ! ) as what's shown in this movie . The effects are world class , and brings forth to glory and life , the demons and damned creatures from hell . The Constantine Theme provides the noir , a dash of suave and attitude to the movie and when it's on , you just know something awesome's about to happen . Stay till the end of the movie , it'll show you the aftermath of one of the characters .
A Nutshell Review : The Aviator	This almost 3 hour bio-epic of Howard Hughes , the second collaborative film between Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio ( the first being Gangs of New York ) , may seem as mammoth as the sproose goose , but with excellent casting , acting , sets and pacing , you'd be clammering for it to continue as it barely scratches the surface of Hughes eventful life , as director , aviator and visionary . Squeezed into the film are so many themes and subplots , it makes you eager to want to learn more about this fascinating icon , in addition to the Early Hollywood to post-WWII era covered . Hollywood - this is at its earliest , with classic screen legends brought to life again . The first 15 minutes of the film lets you into the production of Hughes ' Hell's Angels , and other classics of his like Scarface and The Outlaw were covered , with the latter's friction with the censorship board on mammaries bringing huge doses of humour . Also , look out for Jude Law's Errol Flynn ! Romance - between Katharine Hepburn , played so perfectly by Cate Blanchett , and Kate Beckinsale's Ava Gardner , who teases and asks Hughes of nothing more than buying her dinner . Minor love relations are briefly mentioned , or given the " Tabloid Treatment " . The Aviator - Hughes designs , builds and then test flies his own planes . We get to see him being the fastest man on earth , circling the globe , critically crashing his Air Force's spy plane prototype , and piloting his crowning glory , C-130's granddaddy Hercules . Corporate Business - Business is war , between Hughes ' WTA and Alec Baldwin's PanAm . Watch how they scheme against each other for the battle of the skies ! Corruption - Politics and money don't mix . . . or do they ? We get a sneak peek into the corruption and bribery of the early days . Oops , or should I say , generous donations ? Excessive Compulsive Disorder - Hughes suffers from ECD , and is obsessive with cleanliness . He uses his own bar soap in public loos , doesn't stand anything raw , or the tiniest speck of dirt on anyone else's shirt . We see the disorder zapping his of his sanity , and he declines into living in filth ( the irony of it ) and stark naked in his projection room , suffering from the disorder at its worst , before Ava plucks him out of his rut . I have to admit I ain't much of a Martin Scorsese fan , till now . I haven't watched Goodfellas , and my recent memory of Scorsese is Gangs of NY , and the lending of his voice for the blowfish in Shark's Tale . Here , he masterfully mixes and weaves the themes together into one long compelling narrative . I have always been a fan of Leo DiCaprio's acting abilities , from What's Eating Gilbert Gabe , to spouting Shakespeare in Bahz Luhman's R+J . This is yet another occasion where he plays someone real and does one heck of a job . This show has something for everybody , is Oscar worthy , so don't miss it . Now I gotta hit the stores to get one of his biographies . . .
A Nutshell Review : Ultraman Mebius & Ultraman Brothers	I grew up watching Ultraman on television , so much so that back then I can sing the theme song , in Japanese ( of course not knowing exactly what it meant ) ! With so many variations on the Ultra heroes , it's actually quite easy for a kid to follow , with each episode having a different ugly monster wreck havoc on Earth ( ok , make that Japan ) , and each time Ultra - whoever will transform himself , do battle through his kung-fu moves , until that red light on his chest blinks as an indication to stop monkeying around , and then he finishes the monster with his signature moves . Ah , nostalgia ! But what I did like about Ultraman , was indeed the intricate modelling done on the landscapes of Japan , and how they get so painfully destroyed by the monster imitating Gojira , or when our hero is on the receiving end of a smackdown to the ground . And the special effects , though so dated today , were really captivating to a kid those days . I have many fond memories of my collection of Ultraman figurines , which somehow mysteriously disappeared after cousins came visiting one afternoon many years back . Over the years , especially after television stopped airing updated episodes , Ultraman faded , but always had a special place inside my heart . There were the new versions of late , what with Ultraman Tiga , Dyna and what have yous . I found their design to be un-Ultraman like , especially with their shades of blue . Watching some episodes didn't trigger my interest , so I did not pick up from where I left off . However , in celebration of 40 years since the creation of the very first Ultraman , a new movie ( only released in disc format here ) was spotted on the shelves , that of a certain Ultraman Mebius . While I thought his colour scheme was right , and the new kid on the block very nicely designed and pleasing to the eye , what caught my interest was the words " Ultraman Brothers " , and in the same cover , you see the heroes of old , including Ultraman , Ultraman Jack , Ultraseven , and Ultraman Ace , together with Ultraman Taro and Ultraman Zoffy . Wow ! But the barebones DVD coupled with its unattractive price put me off for a bit , until I saw a preview of it being shown on the television of an electronics shop . And I was sold ! I bought the DVD , and rarely do I pop it into the player immediately ( I still have stacks of DVDs unwatched ) , but I did for this one . And I loved it tremendously , nevermind the kiddish plot and central theme of " the power of confidence can give you courage " kinda fortune cookie sayings . For the uninitiated ( as if I was an expert ) , Yi Lai is in the GUYS formation , one of those world wide policemen with snazzy equipment and vehicles to combat monsters that invade earth , but almost without a doubt never using such firepower given the presence of Ultraman . Yi Lai is Ultraman Mebius , and when called upon , he has this transformation device attached to his wrist to being him up to size . Mebius is quite athletic , and has a range of powers which this movie will introduce you to , coupled with a streak of green in his level of experience . After all , Mebius had selected to come to earth because he wanted to find out whatever happened to his brothers Ultraman , Jack , Ace and Seven . The quartet had been living a life of seclusion of sorts in their human form , sacrificing their ability to transform in order to imprison a vicious monster . And you know what the best part is ? The filmmakers got the ORIGINAL human actors to portray their aged counterparts , and fused some montage shots from their resp ective series of yesteryears ! You just cannot get any more cooler or more authentic than that ! Pure nostalgia flowing I tell you ! And this lends some weight when the quartet had to counsel Yi Lai and dispense some tips and tricks to our new rookie protector of earth - we've been there , and done that ! Not to spoil the story ( which isn't much anyway ) , the action sequences are to die for . Fans will recognize our respective heroes ' signature killer moves , and after 40 years , CGI has crept into the movie in the depiction of our heroes ' battles against the monsters , but that is not to say it's forgetting its man-in-a-rubber-suit heritage . You get the best of both worlds combined , with close-ups and more physical stunts done by stuntmen , and the more fantastical , in flight action rendered through computer graphics . It's pure eye-candy , and one which you're definite to watch on repeat ! This is a recommended must watch for all Ultraman fans out there , and I'm already eyeing the original series boxset which is currently still priced beyond my reach . Tears will flow when I watch those episodes I tell you ! And Mebius does seem interesting enough for me to want to follow his exploits . So if anyone out there wanna get my a gift for whatever occasion , you probably know what to get me now , don't you ? : P
A Nutshell Review : Perhaps Love	I fell in love with the introductory analogy . Life is like the movies , in which you are the director , producer and the star . In your life , there are other co-stars , and of course , that significant other . But what if you happen not to be sharing the limelight in your other's life ? Editing is always a pain , and in the final product , you will then learn if you are sharing the same billing , get relegated to a cameo , or in the worst case , get cut out entirely and lie on the floor of the editing room . Similarly to my 2004 movie of the year , Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , this film too takes a look at the trying to forget someone in your life entirely . Except in this one , there is no faux-pas scientific methods , but done by sheer human will and pretense . This is a musical within a musical , and a beautifully choreographed one at that . First thoughts will be , hey , it looks like Moulin Rouge , with big colourful sets , dancers , singers , stunts , and songs with meaningful lyrics . Yes , and given similar themes like Love and Hate , but Perhaps Love tells its own story . The soundtrack befits the musical , and I won't be surprised if anyone adapts this for the stage too . Japanese heartthrob Takeshi Kaneshiro plays Lin Jian Dong , a struggling film student when he met his love in Beijing . When the film begins , he's already an accomplished actor , and chances upon that same love in his latest movie collaboration . He's not the least surprised at being given the cold shoulder , and goes all out to try and win her back . But exactly what his motivations are - love , revenge , closure , that one pleasure filled fling , remained to be seen . Much is said about his ability to sing ( or lack thereof ) , but I felt that he sang convincingly in this movie , and fleshed out his role as the pained lover realistically . When his final intentions are revealed , you can't help but to emphatise - yes , that perhaps what he did was justified . Contrasting Kaneshiro's character is Jackie Cheung's Nie Wen , the auteur director with his mood swings . His current lover and muse is Jian Dong's love in Beijing , and he comes to discover this fact after filming begins . He feels cheated upon , hurt , and channels his raw emotions onto the film . There should be no doubt as to Cheung's singing prowess - powerful is the one word summed up , though I thought it's always the same song ? Between the two male leads , his is surprisingly magnanimous , and shows true courage as compared to Jian Dong . Chinese actress Zhao Xun plays Sun Na , the woman caught between the two men . One is her lover in a past she wants to forget , while the other is her lover who brought her stardom in the present world . It's a highly complicated-in-emotions role , one which explores , and for those in love , might have felt in one way , or at some points in time . When you feel your love is holding you back , would you give it all up to pursue your dreams ? Sun Na is one such woman , who will stop at absolutely no cost , and jump on every available opportunity presented , to seek fame and fortune . And it is she who walked out of Jian Dong's life at least twice , to be with an American director , and later , with Jian Dong's assistant director friend , before we currently see her in the present . Ignoring Jian Dong when they meet in their new film , she can't help but feel her icy walls being broken down by his persistence , though Jian Dong had assistance from Korean Jin Ji-hee's role as Montage , a spirit who interacts with all characters and weaves in and out of the plot , bringing about a feel that there's always that higher being involved in events that unfold in life . And the way the characters interact is probably fused so seamlessly into the musical , within the musical . Unable to express themselves freely , they do so through the musical's story , premise , and lines . It doesn't feel contrived , but the entire narrative seemed flawless . Even the flashbacks doesn't mar the pacing of the film , but brings about a natural progression and revelation of character development and events . Perhaps Love is a truly wonderful experience , especially for those who have been in the same ship before . Its ending isn't typical , but one which perhaps is the most realistic an ending can be for the characters involved . Peter Chan has crafted a beautiful masterpiece of a musical for the Hong Kong film industry . Catch this on the big screen before its run is over !
A Nutshell Review : Le Grand Chef	A romantic comedy about food should evoke some hunger pangs , as well as some mouthwatering oohs and aahs for the sheer visuals of food that you'll probably swear you can smell and taste , if done right . However , the first reactions from Le Grand Chef is " eeeeeeeeeeeee " followed by plenty of reeling from the graphic nature of fresh sashimi preparation . The opening scene is the preparation of fresh golden blowfish , where you'll see the fish still gasping in its last stages of life , snuffed through a deft decapitation of its head , followed by the fins , before skinning it in one fall swoop , disembowelment and the slicing of its meat so thinly that it's translucent . Based on a popular comic book series , Le Grand Chef perched on the # 1 spot in Korea for three weeks , touching very familiar territory in the likes of films shown a few months back such as No Reservations and Ratatouille . We're soon introduced to two rival chefs , Sung-chan ( Kim Kang-woo ) and Bong-joo ( Lim Won-hie ) , where they are to present to a judging panel to wrestle control over a famed restaurant . Needless to say , Sung-chan fails miserably through obvious foul play , and quits the scene . Becoming a well known produce farmer with fans made from middle aged housewives , Sung - chan is soon persuaded to return to the scene by VJ Jin-su ( Lee Ha-na ) through a cooking competition , where the prize is a rusty blade belonging to the Royal Chef , an artifact with so much rich history , it just had to tie into the lives of Sung-chan and Bong-joo and their ancestors . So it's game on everybody ! With good food photographed so beautifully , there's nothing not to like about the movie , despite its very familiar storyline , The plot may be recycled from various cookery / food movies , even like Stephen Chow's God of Cookery , but here , it goes to show that the delivery plays a huge part . While it is very obvious to rattle on and on about the competition proceedings , director Jeon Yun-su mixes things up and borrows loads from Japanese movies where food is concerned ( Udon , anyone ? ) and added ingredients from melodrama to bloat the plot . Fortunately , they don't dilute the movie , but provided a good variety of subplots on the side , ranging from supporting side characters such as a famed charcoal maker , to comedy involving the quest to cook the perfect Ramen . Running through the narrative is plenty of flashbacks into the ancestry of the rival chefs , which had a simple mystery on the sins of their ancestors , adding some form of depth into the hatred these men have toward each other . For once , I thought the flashbacks were as effective as they were entertaining . While the subplots serve to entertain , the cookery competition serves up a feast for the eyes , albeit it took a backseat in the second half of the story after a flurry of first half activity , so much so that split screens in comic book style had to be employed to squeeze as much as possible on screen at the same time . And the presentation was kept fresh with different styles employed so that it's not the same after each round of competition , keeping in line with the necessity of having things fresh , akin to food . Le Grand Chef is a delightful film to sit through , and probably fired the first salvo for 2008 as a contender to be amongst the top of my list this year . It's not just or always about food , but the philosophy , ingredients and plenty of heart , nevermind the cliché that come along with it , especially with the some similarities to Pixar's last offering , from plot to characters . One thing's for sure , food critics aren't really a likable bunch from the way they are portrayed in movies , ha !
A Nutshell Review : The Mist	With a title like The Mist , you probably won't be faulted if the first thing in your mind is that it's one of those run of the mill horror movies , like The Fog and The Haze ( ok , so I made the last one up , it's actually a recently made short film competing in Berlin ) . And the trailers do suggest strange shenanigans happening inside a mist shrouded town , so in the hands of any mediocre storyteller , it's so easy to make them go Boo . Based on the novella by Stephen King , The Mist turned out to be unexpectedly excellent , with audiences whooping for joy both at the right and wrong places . Granted , sometimes Stephen King's materials do make uninteresting movies when adapted incorrectly and helmed dubiously , but Frank Darabont has proved himself with his previous King works like The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile , both good movies in their own right , with excellent casting . Here , a cast of mostly unknowns carry the movie , and the direction doesn't rely on gimmicky tricks to frighten you , but in its measured , calm and at times standard by-the-book style , it brings heightened tension every step of the way . Thomas Jane , whose last movie I saw was The Punisher , stars as David Drayton , a comic artist whose house was smashed in one night by a tree during a bad storm . The next morning , he leaves his wife , and bringing his child and neighbour , they journey to the local supermarket to get supplies for home repairs , but not before realizing the army whizzing away at top speed . The pace picks up and within 10 minutes , the shoppers in the supermarket find themselves locked in as a mist descends upon them , with a frantic man running back to warn everyone that there's something within the mist . If we're talking about a cliché story , you'll probably get wave after wave of attacks on the shoppers inside the supermarket , as they barricade themselves in for a fight for survival . However , all that turn out to be secondary , as the story becomes clear that it's not about it being a horror movie , but a social mouthpiece about a couple of topics , all of which centres upon fear , and holding a mirror unto ourselves . We are afraid of the unknown , and chances are it will lead us to make irrational decisions , sometimes firing from the hip . The movie will constantly probe you into questioning how you would respond to the given situation , whether you'll break under pressure , or be able to maintain a sane mind in formulating survival plans . And in the unknown , there would bound to be a Bible-thumper . Truth be told , I thought that the character Mrs Carmody ( sounds like " comedy " , played by Marcia Gay Harden ) will be one that the censors here might be touchy with , given how she was portrayed in extremely negative light . In times like these where there's a huge question mark hanging over you , there will be those who turn to religion for answers , and sometimes they may drift into the fanatical zone on the words of false prophets . Then I realize that this of course could be left as a warning against extremism , that it doesn't , most of the time , solve problems , but create them , and in the false name of god , makes it easier to do so too , in persuading others to join in the lost cause . Naturally , the preservation of self also takes centerstage , and does so very early , almost from the start - how we think of others having ulterior motives against ourselves , and just how much would we contribute for the greater good , or toward fellow friends and acquaintances . And this rams itself in with a key ironic scene , that sometimes , on positive karma , you may be rewarded for the good things you've done for others . There was a tinge of sadness , pity and sense of woe in the ending , and I enjoyed every minute of it , even though you may have guessed how it would turn out to be . As a friend put it , neither of us expected Frank Darabont / Stephen King to have the brass balls they had to pull it off , but it just had to be to evoke those emotions , making it all the more powerful , and wretched , at the same time . Despite it being devoid of a soundtrack until the final moments , I thought it was highly effective in not having one , letting ambient noise play a primary role . It allowed all our senses to be focused on how things were developing during the movie , without having music to emotionally manipulate our thought process and opinions . There are moments that you had to judge , without being biased by any particular soundtrack playing over the background . But fret not , interspersed nicely between scenes of questioning , are the scenes of the usual action-adventure that you'll come to enjoy , often times squealing together with the characters ( and depending on the audience , them too ) as the unfortunate faceless / characterless few start to succumb to the out of the world creatures . We've waited for a long time for The Mist to descend upon our shores , and now that it finally did ( almost , at a GV Surprise Screening ) , it didn't disappoint a bit , but surpassed all expectations . Highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : Hotel Rwanda	This is a powerful drama . In 1993 , there was ethnic war between the Tutsis and the Hutus in Rwanda . The film highlights the horrors of war , and also brings forth that a man must do , in all his ability , to always protect his family first in times of crisis . It's sad , but true , that there is always a limit to the number of people you can help . Don Cheadle plays Paul Rusesabagina , a hotel manager whose hotel was used by the UN and world media as a base for covering the supposed peace treaty between the 2 ethnic groups , and later used as a place of safe refuge when Hutus start to ethnic cleanse the " cockroaches " Tutsis - it's amazing how easily hatred is bred through endless radio broadcasts . Being a Hutu himself , and married to a Tutsi , this brings forth danger to Paul himself . However , with his street smarts , and network connections , he manages to stay one step ahead of the situation , and brings hope to his family , employees , and refugees , when all seems bleak . While the West has abandoned Paul and Rwanda , Paul has shown courage and hope in turning things around , during times of violence and rampant corruption . You're as good as what you can offer to those in power - once you have nothing , you're as good as a goner . This doesn't only apply to Paul and the generals , but also , on a bigger picture , between the West and Rwanda as well . I haven't watched a lot of movies starring Don Cheadle , except for the Ocean movies . Given these shows tend to root for strong leading man types , probably Denzel Washington , Cheadle does an excellent job here . No doubt the lack of A-stars , the supporting cast gave commendable performances , see if you can spot Joaquin Phoenix underneath his bearded face ! I shan't preach here , but I must state that genocide is evil , and the world cannot turn a blind eye when it happens , no matter where . Watch this film , and understand .
A Nutshell Review : My Mother is a Belly Dancer	My Mother is a Belly Dancer is the last in the series of the FOCUS : First Cuts project , and to my surprise , it's my favourite of the lot , beating Crazy Stone , one of my movies of the year 2006 ! It's no secret that I dig dance movies , but this one is not the usual flick filled with teen angst and such . It has a lot more gravitas to it , and contains characters that you actually care for , with universal themes which makes it easier to reach out to audiences . Belly dancing is getting popular amongst the dance crowd in Singapore . It's sensual , with those shoulder shimmies and belly twists , and contains moves that will probably give those abs a fabulous workout . It's a traditional dance , and no doubt with its sensuousness , it takes a little getting used to , especially for local Asian women who are generally shy to expose that midriff and shake that booty . ( Clarification : I think younger women have no qualms , but the movie's focus is on the " auntie crowd " ) Set in a residential estate , the film looks into the lives of 4 women , and how dance , in particular the belly dance , helped to develop them into stronger women , from the traditional demure roles into independent womanhood . We actually look at mums of different ages and backgrounds , such as a housewife who gains no respect from her husband nor her kid son , a single , young mother , a fruit seller whose husband she suspects is having an affair , and finally , a rubbish collector whose facing problems with feeding her large family of kids given her husband's inability to hold down a well paying job . Before you scream in disgust that this is typical women-power stuff , I'd like to assure that it actually has a lot of heart , and that's what made this movie so enjoyable . It's about finding strength and the acceptance of reality . It's about assertion and moving on . Each woman face their own unique problems in their lives , and by coming together in the dance class , they form a strong bond with one another , especially when the dance class itself face discrimination from the more traditional , uptight older womenfolk who view it as immoral and slutty . Their problems and challenges in their personal lives run viz-a-viz the issues of keeping their class alive , and by saving their class and keeping their spirits alive , they too subconsciously experience a change in their character . The lead actresses , though not frequently seen in movies these days , all put up commendable performances , even though some of their characters start off in a one - dimensional manner . They added believability with their earnest portrayals of women facing problems , and who turn out for the better when they discover new strength during their dance sessions , and through the forging of new bonds . Andy Lau returns to lend some star power in the movie , as with most of the other FOCUS : First Cuts project films . Here , he cameos as the owner of a middle eastern bar , where women congregate and share their love for belly dancing . So just what exactly is happiness ? That's what the movie seeks to explore , and presents at the same time , the common viewpoints of family live as seen through different eyes , in different forms , under different circumstances .
A Nutshell Review : 300	The trailers which have whetted the appetites of fanboys everywhere have now given way to the premiere of the movie . Fanboys , the wait is over ! 300 hits our shores this week , and to action buffs , this is the moment that we're waiting for ! Pure , unadulterated , violent action , true to the visuals of Frank Miller's graphic novel of the same name , based on an imaginative retelling of the ancient Battle of Thermopylae , where King Leonidas ( Gerard Butler ) and 300 of his Spartan warriors defended their land against the invading Persian army , led by the self proclaimed god-king Xerxes ( Rodrigo Santoro ) . One of the appealing factors of this classic tale is that size does not matter , so long as you've got the right techniques . It's a classic David versus Goliath , only that David is better trained , and has more grit , honour , courage to stand up for what he believes in , and to defend all that he loves . It's akin to telling the bullies not to go too far , or face the wrath and fury of those pushed to a corner . The Spartans embody the positive traits of men who are proud warriors , led by someone whom you'll always prefer to go to war with , a leader who leads , rather than a leader like Xerxes who directs . In recent times , ever since Peter Jackson unleashed his epic battles from the Lord of the Rings trilogy , we've a number of movies that hopped on the bandwagon , from Troy to Alexander , all wanting to revisit the clashing of the swords amongst gladiators . But instead of something that rings familiar ( just how many fights can you sit through before they look all the same ? ) , director Zack Snyder managed to craft very distinct looking fights , and the action choreography is something to behold , exclaiming the point that when the Spartans fight as one keen unit , they are a force to be reckoned with . You can't wait for the Spartans to use their shield-spear-sword combo , and you're rewarded soon enough . Kudos of course to the stunt team and fight choreographers in designing different battle set pieces for each incoming wave of the Persian army , and I like the bit with the oriental looking Invincibles . It's not all pure action , dismembered body parts and CGI splattering of blood . The action does take a breather once in a while to content with the usual rotting of Greek politics with Lena Headey's Queen Gorgo trying to drum up support for more Spartan warriors to join her husband in the defence of the land . As usual , the expected back stabbing , dirty politicking strokes rear its ugly head , and there are scenes that probably will get you seething . Somehow , the wise councillors always get portrayed as old buffoons , and this one is no different , especially in a scene where they act like dumb sheep . However , given that this is a well known tale , the inevitable is just waiting to happen , and somehow , I felt that it tapered off towards the end , in a rather anti-climatic manner , after raising your adrenaline each time with successive battles that seem to top the previous . I thought at certain points you could draw upon references from other contemporary movies . Certain plot points and shots somehow reminded me of Zhang Yimou's Hero , with its rousing army war cries and the liberal use of arrows . Not only that , Lord of the Rings was tapped upon again , in giving us a Gollum-looking like " creature " used in a similar mould . And Braveheart too comes to mind . But those aside , I would say this has all the ingredients for box office success . Sex and violence sells , and I'm pleased that this movie survived the censors unscathed , with an M18 rating . If the Oracle brings to mind the jolly matronly like lady in the Matrix movies , this movie will attempt to shake off that memory with a writhing nymph like seer . I do not know how anyone can boo at this movie , unless of course you're not an action movie lover . Sit back , relax and watch the spectacle unfold up close as if you're battling side by side with the Spartans . It doesn't get any better than that .
A Nutshell Review : Saving Face	The first thing that hits you in this movie , is the realization of how accurate its portrayal of traditional Chinese values are , and the spot on capture of the various stereotypes amongst the Chinese people . Hence the title about Face ( literally translated from the Chinese language for respectability ) . Face is something that can be lost if you've done something shameful and not the norm , and to the traditionalist , Face must be preserved at all cost . But lo and behold , the two main protagonists , Wil ( Michelle Krusiec ) and her mother ( played by Joan Chen ) , are anything but traditionalists . While on the surface , the mother might seem like your typical neighbourhood auntie , she became the family outcast when she's pregnant with a child whose father's identity she refused to reveal , and is driven out of the home by Grandpa , Chinese values personified . She starts to intrude into the life of her daughter Wil , a doctor , who's more westernized . And Wil too develops a lesbian relationship with her boss ' daughter Vivian , a dancer . Wil has her hands full as she struggles with the demands and expectations of her new found relationship , trying hard to keep her relationship under wraps as she doesn't know how her loved ones would react , and taking care of her mom . For the conservative folks out there , don't mind the lesbian love ; it's the themes behind this movie that are universal , and appealing . Little nuances were very much welcomed in the movie , like filial piety ( yes you may not like what your mom is doing to your life , but you respect her anyhow ) , the congregation of Chinese people in western lands for their weekly dinner-and-dance matchmaking sessions , the malicious gossips and the spreading of rumours like wildfire amongst a close-knit community . Many of these led to natural humour at seeing cultural values , misconceptions ( like the Soy Sauce joke ) and prejudices played out on screen . It's also a story about coming out of the dark with controversial relationships ( single parenthood , lesbian love ) , having the courage to stand up for who you are and love , and the acceptance of the only constant in life - change . We see the dominating fatherly figure in the movie come to realize this fact as he resigns to the fate about his lost of face . I have two favourite scenes in this movie ( no , it's not the lesbian sex in case you're wondering , and even that has been edited too , despite its R21 rating ) . The first scene is something that plays like a small homage to The Graduate , with the interrupting of a wedding scene and running away only to end up in a bus . They sit in silence , before wondering what the next step should be . Just as the Graduate dealt with an unconventional relationship , so does this movie , and I found it somehow apt to have adopted it in this film . The other is the statement it made about relationships . It's personal , between two persons , and it doesn't matter what others think . Conditioning and culture might have made us conservative in the declaration of our true feelings , but the message in the movie is to let these inhibitions go . Some might not like the movie's use of both Mandarin and English in the same conversation , especially when trying to figure out why Wil speaks English to her mom , while she replies in Mandarin ( yes , she knows a little English , but doesn't seem to suffice her understanding of Wil's more complete sentences ) . But hey , put that aside , and you'll enjoy other conversational pieces where the characters break into , and uses the other language's words as substitutes , kinda like how we bilinguals speak sometimes . It's a clash of western's open and Asian's conservative cultural values in an earnest tale of traditional and modern relationships and love , packaged with an excellent soundtrack selection . This is going into my books as one of the contenders for my movie of this year . Oh yeah , did I forget to mention that the female leads are attractive eye candy too ? Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Il Mare ( 2000 )	One of the earlier Korean hits in Singapore was Il Mare , starring Jun Ji-hyun and Lee Jung-jae , and last year it became the excuse of a remake by Hollywood to reunite Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock on the big screen . If anything good comes out these remakes , it is the acknowledgement that Asian stories are finding some legs to travel . There was no hesitation to obtain my copy of this movie when I saw the DVD , given that almost all the versions of the movie here was the VCD oneJust so you know where I'm coming from , I haven't seen the original , and had seen the Hollywood remake first . But if you were to ask me to decide right now which version is superior , I would say without hesitation , the original Korean one triumphs over the remake , simply because , as a romance , it sure knew how to present it the way it's supposed to be . The way the movies were made , is akin to the lake house featured in both movies - the Hollywood one is very grand , with plenty of bells and whistles , but the Korean one is simpler though by no means less effective , in its minimalist look and feel , puts the focus of the story squarely on our lovebirds separated by time . The first thing that strikes you is how quiet this movie can be . There is less dialogue , and it allows the images do the talking . As the cliché goes , a picture is worth a thousand words . Containing plenty of beautiful , idyllic soft focus shots which contribute to the overall romanticized feel , Il Mare is slowly and intricately paced , and less complicated with its relationships , and its supporting cast is few and not given anything substantial to steal thunder and limelight . This , compared to the very Hollywood style of development every minor subplot into a major one , and having to explain everything to the audience - this I thought was sledge-hammered through in the remake very early on into the film , which after watching how it was dealt in the original , you'll agree at which version is more superior . There were many instances of " homage " shots , like the red coat , the paw prints , and the shots of the mailbox , as well as adapting plot elements like the train incident , and liberties were taken to bring to life some of its supporting casts , which were only mentioned in passing in Il Mare . If not for the inflation of run time because of the lack of skill in making a beautiful picture , then I don't know what is . Il Mare allows the audience room to piece together clues and events , without stifling , and this enables a greater appreciation , as well as time to be absorbed totally into the lives of our protagonists , 2 lonely hearts finding each other through a temporal time warp via a mailbox at Il Mare , the name of the Lake House . One's an architect , and the other's a voice artistes , and both connect heart to heart during the winter season , leaving the question of , if we can click , why not meet up and get together ? Jun Ji-hyun and Lee Jung-jae play off each other really well , even though they share limited screen-time together . Coupled with the way each had their individual scenes shot , framed , and presented , I'd say again , you can't help but to feel for these 2 , and root for them to transcend hell and high waters to come together . Watch this movie to find out if they do ! ! Certainly one of the better romantic tales out there , done totally right . Forget about The Lake House , make it Il Mare instead !
A Nutshell Review : An Inconvenient Truth	" You can't make somebody understand something if their salary depends upon them not understanding it . " - Upton SinclairNow if there's a story that's terrifying , An Inconvenient Truth is more horrifying that the recent slew of horror and disaster films out there , because , if you buy the message , this is true , and what's happening right here right now . We can't escape the consequences if we continue doing what we do to harm Nature , but yet we still have the power and ability to make a difference . Sounds simplistic ? Well , maybe . Then again , cynicism will not help any bit . An Inconvenient Truth is a documentary , touching on the very issues of our survival and existence on this only planet we call Earth , the only one we can call home . Al Gore , used to be the next president of the United States , or could be if going by popular vote , brings to us , on the big screen with the assistance of director Davis Guggenheim , an issue he holds dearly , as seen in his relentless crusade around the world , to spread the message that the Earth is sending out SOSes , and we need to respond . The issue of global warming , and the cranky weather and natural disasters we are facing of late , is nothing new . But perhaps , in about 100 minutes , here is something , a presentation that hits home , that summarizes succinctly all the cause and effects , the whys and the how tos . Filled with charts , facts and figures , and lively animation , these are but some of the techniques Gore uses in his slideshow presentation to ring home the message . In fact , I would say it's an excellent package put together for presentation , and anyone could take away a tip or two , on effective public speaking . To some , the documentary is a no-brainer to put together , as most of it focuses on Gore delivering his message , as if you were there listening to him from the stage floor . True , the setup might not be impressive , but the message is too engaging for you to realize that it might be a little bit lazy in the film-making aspects . Having said that , it's precisely jazzier styles were not adopted to keep the attention on the message instead . And keep to the message it does , with just little time on the outside of what Gore does on his travels , some little glimpses into his family life , life before , during and after the close-call year 2000 presidential elections . You do wonder though , about the what-ifs , should he had won the elections , and what difference he would have made on these issues when in the White House . It is clear that modern civilization has an increasing negative impact on the environment , and with the mega developing countries seeking its path to economic equity , one would only shudder at how much more damage could be done , and the devastating after effects . Politics usually steer clear of issues like these , and instead , picks and chooses battles with a higher confidence of success . It's sad , but true . The funniest part about this , and I'd bet during any screening , is whether anyone will buy into what was being delivered . There are tips handed out during the end credits , on how individuals like you and me could help do our part to save the environment . They aren't huge projects , but very simple ones . And no prizes for guessing there are many uninterested , heading straight for the door when the credits start to roll . " It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble . It's what you know for sure that just ain't so . " - Mark Twain
A Nutshell Review : Crash	Crash explores racial bigotry and racial stereotypes , and is the equivalent of what Traffic did on the exploration of drugs . Given the strong ensemble cast and character actors like Don Cheadle , Brendan Fraser , Matt Dillon , Thandie Newton , Ryan Phillippe and Sandra Bullock et al , this movie contains many subplots skillfully juxtaposed into one narrative by director / writer Paul Haggis . We start off with an apparent random murder in a deserted part of Los Angeles , and from the start , racial disharmony rears its ugly head , and does so throughout . Whether be it White-Black , Black-Asian , White-Asian , White-Hispanic , Black-Hispanic , Hispanic-Arab , its off the cuff comments made by characters are starkly honest and probably expresses deeply rooted , prejudiced human emotions , and our preconceived notions of others , like if you're tattooed , you belong to a gang , if you're white and rich , you'll get mobbed by the black folks . We're brought back 24 hours prior to the discovery of the body , and this is where the tight narrative takes control in managing different subplots , yet keeping the audience thoroughly engaged with each . You have a white couple experiencing a carjack , 2 black boys in the hood ( one of them played by Ludicrous ) and their adventures , 2 LAPD detectives who have more than a working relationship , the story of 2 beat officers on opposite sides of a situation , a couple and their misadventure with the beat officers , a locksmith and his daughter amidst a gritty , harsh environment , and an Arab family . Relationships between characters are also key , as they provide a probable insight into the motivations of each character . Told in 2 acts , the first sets up the premise and explores a little of the current situation each character encounters , and touches a bit on their backstory . In the second act , this is where the amalgam and intersection of their lives come into play . And this really brings to light what six degrees of separation really mean . I'll stick my neck out and state that the narrative has NO flaws ! Awesome ! The twists come so fast , you're still in awe when you're exposed to the next revelation , and the next , until we come full circle . None of the characters are who they really are , as the narrative goes on , you start to wonder , if Mr Good Guy is really that Good , and if Mr Bad Guy is really that Bad . All characters have closet skeletons , even the minor ones , be it whether exposing their true characters through conversations , or actions , or leaving it to the audience to judge for themselves . It's amazing how the depth of each character , and for so many of them , are touched upon in the same movie . At some point , you hate someone for their prejudiced views or actions , and yet at another point , you pity the same person based upon the situation they're in . Or you might think that perhaps someone has demonstrated moderate thinking , but you'll be surprised still at the same person's subconscious harbouring of stereotypes . Most characters are shady , and this shadiness of character is present , be it if your social status or skin colour . All the actors did a commendable job in fleshing the multi-faceted roles they each play . The soundtrack contains an excellent selection of songs , but my favourite has to be " Maybe Tomorrow " by Stereophonics , played during the ending . Arnold Schwarzeneggar also had an appearance , on a photograph as the Governor of California , which I felt was a nice contemporary touch . This is highly recommended , please do not miss this , as it goes into my records as a possible contender for Movie of the Year , with its excellent foray into exploring human emotions .
A Nutshell Review : Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea	Hayao Miyazaki's magic continues with this absolute crowd pleaser Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea , his latest animated film , which turns on the usual sweetness to charm your socks off . I thought that the trailer featured its song which was quietly hypnotic , and I didn't have to wait for an invite to make sure I got my ticket for the sneak preview of the movie , scheduled to open here next week . For fans of Studio Ghibli films , you'll probably know what you're in for , as Miyazaki has yet another winner in his filmography , that will win new fans over . I'm embarrassed to say the least that I've so far watched only My Neighbour Totoro ( eyes that pile of Ghibli DVDs ) and love it to bits , but I guess this would serve as a final push for me not to continue missing what would likely be animated films that I would enjoy . Ponyo ( voiced by Nara Yuria ) is a magic goldfish that yearns to know what is life beyond the sea , with her constant forays in a bubble to the surface of the water to sneak a peek . Nonetheless these ambitions do not bode well with her humanoid dad Fujimoto ( Tokoro Joji ) , who harbours some hatred toward the human race for pollution , and briefly touching a subplot on environmental protection / revenge by Mother Nature as well . An accident one day sees Ponyo being washed ashore , and picked up by five year old boy Sosuke ( Doi Hiroki ) who lives on a house on the said cliff with his mother Lisa ( Yamaguchi Tomoko ) , while dad Koichi ( Nagashima Kazushige ) is mostly out to sea since he's a sailor . And you can expect some moments of throwback to the likes of The Little Mermaid , or Splash made for kids . Saying anything more would be to spoil the fun . The artwork here is still simply astounding even though it's in 2D glory , knowing that each cell is painstakingly worked on . There are so many things going on at the same time within the same frame , that you'll probably be game for repeated viewings just to spot them all . This definitely beats any 3D or CG animated production any day given its beauty coming from its simplicity , and not only from the artwork department , but on its story too , despite complaints coming in that it took a leaf from the Hans Christian Andersen classic . While there are avenues to make this film extremely dark , it only suggested certain dark themes , but opted instead for a film with more positive emotions , suitable for both kids and adults alike . At its core , its about love , that between the family members of Koichi , Lisa and Sosuke , and especially between mother and son . More so , it's about the love between the boy and his new pet fish which he christened Ponyo , and I tell you Ponyo herself has enough cuteness in her to beat the likes of Bolt , WallE and Eve all hands down . Characterization here is top notch , and it's hard not to fall in love with Ponyo , in whichever form adopted , especially when she's such a playful being who doesn't hide her emotions - if she's upset with you , either she turns away or you could expect a jet stream come spewing from her mouth into your face ! Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea is a definite shoo-in to my top films of this year without hesitation . And the next time I go to Tokyo , I'm sure as hell going to make my way to the Ghibli Museum to bask under the magical world brought to us by Hayao Miyazaki . Highly recommended film , so don't you go missing this on the big screen !
A Nutshell Review : Departures	By now almost everyone would have heard of this Japanese film Okuribito ( Departures ) , given its win in the recent Academy Awards , clinching the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film , beating the likes of crowd favourite Waltzing With Bashir , and the Palme D'or winner The Class . And now after watching it , it's no surprise really , because if I were to go tongue in cheek , it's the novelty factor , given that the Academy would never have conceived upon the notion that a film coming from Asia and filled with death , corpses and coffins , would be anything but a horror film . Seriously though , Departures have Awards written all over it , with fine acting complementing a strong story to tell . I suppose the equivalent of a " casketer " in local context , would be the embalmer . And it's without a doubt a profession most misunderstood , and shunned because of our innate fear of death . We choose to avoid death where it had gone , and being an embalmer would unlikely be on any kid's wish list of professions . Despite the stereotypical negative connotations , it is a profession that is quite dignified , because the professional is entrusted with the responsibility of helping the loved ones of the deceased cope with the passing on , and to help ease the pain in bringing some colour before the final journey to either the burial ground , or crematorium . Departures demystifies this profession in the Japanese context . And like all things Japanese , the process comes with an elaborate ritual of preparation , cleansing and presentation , all done with great precision , skillful grace and utmost respect for both the deceased , and the family members . The profession depicted here in the film , is one of the highest order , where we see exactly how the casketers go about their job , and the separation of duties with the undertaker . Masahiro Motoki ( last seen in The Longest Night in Shanghai ) stars as the lead protagonist Daigo Kobayashi , a cellist in an orchestra who dreams of going places around the world with his wife Mika ( Ryoko Hirosue ) in tow . Unfortunately for him , his orchestra folds and he is forced to sell his expensive white elephant since he doubts he could make his passion into a successful career . Dejected , he convinces his wife to retreat back into the small town he came from , living in the house his late mother had left behind , in order to start a new life . Little did he know when responding to a job classifieds that a typo had given him the impression he would be in a career that involves travel . The boss of the shop Ikuei Sasaki ( Tsutomu Yamazaki ) hires him on instinct , and as the saying goes , the rest is history . For the curious , the film is an excellent medium to showcase the profession and to do so in good light . We come to learn the craft behind the job , and the necessity of it all , be it dealing with grieving family members , or taking care of bodies that are bound for autopsies . Departures paints through Daigo's experience , the varying spectrum of emotions that one as a service provider would have to face , as we journey with him from novice level . All's not doom and gloom of course , as director Yujiro Takita paced the film with well meaning humour ? again never slapstick or disrespectful ? throughout the narrative . The story by Kundo Koyama also excellently portrayed Daigo's relationships with his wife and with his mentor , where the former was like a rubber band waiting to snap because of Daigo's deliberate attempts to not tell his lovely wife what he's up to for a career in order to shield her from the taboo . With the latter from whom he picks up the tools of the trade from , there's a surrogate father figure which he never had while growing up , resulting in some pent up hatred toward his dad who walked out on the family when he was young . It's an extremely moving piece of drama that doesn't get bogged down by melodrama , and I thoroughly enjoyed its themes of reconciliation , forgiveness and best of all , being a professional and serving with pride . It's a fantastically crafted film with an excellent cast all round , and shatters all taboos that come with the profession of a " casketer " . I know it's cliché to say this , but Departures will be a strong contender when I compile my list of top films for the year . It's been some time already where I'm equally entertained and moved by a film , and without a doubt , do not let this depart from our local cinemas before you get a chance to watch it on the big screen . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Star Trek	My adventures with the original William Shatner-led Enterprise crew had been confined to the cinematic movies of Star Trek , plus sporadic episodes from the original television series . I grew up more with Patrick Stewart's Captain Jean-Luc Picard commanding the Next Generation on board the USS Enterprise NCC-1701-D in exploring strange new worlds and civilizations , as well as every movie made following that crew . It's quite unfortunate that Nemesis didn't fare too well at the box office , and hence it took this long ( some 7 years ! ) before another Star Trek movie got made . In between we had other spin off series like Deep Space Nine , Voyager , and Enterprise , all which somehow didn't appeal to me , and their ability to cross over to the cinematic screen was , I guess , questionable . Then the question of how and where does one even begin in making another mass appeal movie , which by now has a whole wealth of content , and canonical ones at that . Imagine an established franchise with fans worldwide , some practically religious followers , and convince them that what you're making , and a reboot at that ( horrors ! ) would be the right way forward ? But I got to take my hands off to J . J . Abrams , and especially to the scribes of Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman for really having the balls , and the smarts , to do what they did . It's a reboot all right , but a really clever way to jump-start a legacy without making a mockery of its rich history , providing an acceptable ( though not never seen before ) method relying on stuff that science fiction is made up of . Of course I won't tell you what it is , you'll have to find out yourself , suffice to say that it made everything fall in place , with the involvement of Leonard Nimoy , and the background of the Romulan villain played to stereotypical perfection by Eric Bana . At its core , with this reboot , it allowed for the film to establish the paralleled and troubled background of the ship's Captain and First Officer , James Tiberius Kirk ( Chris Pine ) and Vulcan Mr . Spock ( Zachary Quinto ) , and with all solid partnerships and friendships , they too don't begin seeing eye to eye . It's a little bit curious though that this version of Star Trek has forgone its television roots for the cinematic debut first , and even though both Pine and Quinto came from TV , I don't expect to see this particular film spin off a television franchise of its own ( though I'm secretly hoping so ! ) . If anything , there should be an ongoing series ( if box office receipts permit ) for the cinema instead of the gogglebox . It takes a while to showcase these individual characters at the top of the Enterprise command , before we get to see the rest of the familiar crew , now replaced with fresh faces , like John Cho as Sulu , Karl Urban as Dr . Leonard " Bones " McCoy , Anton Yelchin as Mr Chekov , Zoe Saldana as Uhura , and Simon Pegg as Scotty , whom fans will have to wait until the mid way point to see his very limited , though memorable appearance on the deck of the ship . Since it's an " origin " film of sorts , we get more acquainted to Spock , who now demonstrates more emotions rather than cold logic from the Nimoy era , and Kirk still rolling with the punches as the action-hero man , still defiant and often unorthodox in his approach to the mission at hand . Fans itching to see what James T . Kirk is famous for , you'll finally get to see that in his Starfleet Academy days here . The pacing of the film was as energetic as that of its younger cast , and what is a 126 minute movie did feel as if it's under 90 minutes , where it begins with a bang from the get go , and never decelerates from its warp speed . Abrams kept the pace very fluid , balancing emotional scenes with the more action-packed ones , though I feel there would be some passing pre - mature judgement that Star Trek is never about the action . That's true here as well ( except probably when you're faced with Kirk hanging on a ledge of some sorts no less than 3 times ) , in case you're wondering about the trailer's bells and whistles . The sound design was excellent as well , as you really get to experience that silence of space each time the vast void comes to fill up the entire screen . Non-fans might find some reason to scoff at Star Trek being a bit stiff , but this version makes it all sexy again . There's a wonderful story that doesn't pander to the audience nor disrespect its rich history , perfectly fused moments of humour , adequate action , and that core story of how the Enterprise crew got together for its maiden mission , and primed for more when the end credits roll . And it's just nostalgic to see the good ' ol USS Enterprise NCC-1701 given a facelift by Industrial Light and Magic , and taking flight again ! Definitely highly recommended , for fans who will be smiling from ear to ear when spotting little gizmos and easter eggs from knowledge of hindsight , and non-fans alike , who would likely be converted and inspired to go dig through the video archives for the original missions .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Before Sunset ( 2004 )	Thanks goodness I'm watching this on DVD ( though missing out on the chance of experiencing this on the big screen ) and can almost watch it immediately after watching the original . Well I could have , but I'd like to let Before Sunrise sink it a bit , before finding out how my favourite lovebirds continue with their next encounter in this sequel , filmed some nine years later , which is a very , very long time to wait for a sequel to be made . I guess the length of time in between the making of the movies helped to bring about certain gravitas to the characters played by Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy , in that they truly age physically , no two ways about that , and along with the physical age , come the emotional baggage and history they have built over the years . You can see it in their eyes , no longer the optimistic young adults , full of enthusiasm and hope , and all those replaced by a weary sense of worldliness , with chiseled looks and skinnier frames . I think Celine was more beautiful nine years ago , and am ruing the loss of baby fat , haha ! Anyway I digress . For those who are left at the cliffhanger from Before Sunrise , you'll be pleased that what happened after , and what specifically happened that night , will be revealed in this movie , though the story teases you in not having it revealed in its entirety , toying with you with coy and playfulness , just as how the characters interact then and now . In Before Sunset , we are nine years from the last meeting of Jesse Wallace ( Ethan Hawke , with a last name to his character ) and Celine ( Julie Delpy ) , and he's now a published writer making his whirlwind book promotion in Europe . They meet in a bookstore in Paris , which takes over Vienna , and now have to spend , in almost real time , a very limited late afternoon evening together reminiscing and catching up , before Jesse's scheduled flight home to the USofA . The narrative style has also matured together with the ease with which the actors play their respective characters . You''ll notice the increase in the number of long , uninterrupted takes and dialogues , and sometimes wonder , it'll be a pain to flub your lines . Perhaps it's also because having Hawke and Delpy co-write the screenplay , they were able to inject material drawn from personal experiences to breathe life into their roles . Therefore their lines come across so naturally , you can't help but to start casting this voyeuristic look upon Jesse and Celine as you eagerly await their sharing of their lives from that moment in time , until now - their careers , their families , and the perennial what ifs , and there are many . I don't have a particular moment which I loved , unlike the previous movie , but there are certain dialogue discussed , especially during the limo ride , which struck a chord in me . Perhaps even made me understand my past relationships a little more , though regretting certain things I sure have . It made me wonder , if that was exactly how another felt , and if so , how stupid I was to have not understood , Then again , if I had , then things would be different now , wouldn't it ? I'd say it again , that the movie was made enjoyable by the two main leads portrayal of lovers who can be exactly you or me , and of the fantastic conversational pieces that they have , be it flirting with each other , or discussion of serious issues . Wonderful , wonderful chemistry between them , and for fans of Delpy , you'll be glad to know that she composed and contributed 3 songs to the movie , one of which is worked into the plot , and performed on screen . I like . I liked the way it started , as if what happened in Before Sunrise was something from memory , from imagination , from the past retold in a novel . And depending on your mood , I'd like the way it ended - in a manner which could swing either way , depending on your personality , and the degree of romanticism which you have at that point . In the end , I too was made to reminisce about the one who got away , and regretting it big time . And it does make me wonder , what will happen if I chance upon her some years down the road too ( I think it has now been 5 ? ) , how exactly we would react , and how we would have a conversation , if ever , during that chance meeting . To truly appreciate this movie , watch Before Sunrise first . Better yet , watch both movies back to back , it'll clock in about 181 minutes , which should breeze by given the compelling dialogue and excellent chemistry . I know I will , sometime soon ! There's a slight improvement in the WB Code 3 DVD in that it contains a making-of feature called On The Set of Before Sunset . There are interviews with Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy , as well as director Richard Linklater . You can see how many crew were needed to film the seemingly simplest of scenes , and listen to how they collaborated across continents before finally getting together to shoot the movie . One gripe though , is that this segment lasts only 9 minutes and 40 secs long , and ends so abruptly , you'll not believe that it had finished . As usual , the audio and visual transfers are great , and you have a choice of languages in English Dolby Surround 5 . 1 , or Portugese Dolby Surround Stereo . Another extra is the theatrical trailer , and a host of subtitles available in many languages .
A Nutshell Review : Secret	While Jay Chou no doubt holds court in today's Mando-pop scene , he gets no love from the movie-goers who snigger at his expressionless performance in Zhang Yimou's Curse of the Golden Flower . It indeed is quite brave of him ( though it's arguable to strike while the iron is hot ) to diversify and have a hand in directing so early in his cinematic career , and coming up with quite an interesting , engaging story , though like any creative work , his story did make him seem quite intelligent , in spite of his usual laid-back demeanour . Jay stars as Jay ( yeah , bring back those lazy Hong Kong production days where characters share the actor's first names , because they were working on so many movies simultaneously , it's hard to keep track , so why not name the characters after yourself ! ) , a new student in Tamkang Secondary School . He follows a mysterious piano tune and meets with Rain ( Kwai Lun-Mei ) , a fellow student with whom he starts to spend many lovey-dovey moments with . It's essentially a romance story for dating couples to catch , and it will be a definite test of anyone's cloy-tolerance , given that the lovebirds share so much saccharine sweet dialogue and behaviour , those with lesser tolerance will have goosebumps all the way . And for the romantic movie fans , it's time to revisit some of the cliché plot elements like the bicycle ride - who can resist a bicycle ride ! - lovely scene setting landscape shots , idle banter , close contacts , dance , kisses , the " third party " Sky ( whom I think is more attractive than Kwai , thus providing that additional tension ) , the list just goes on . Jay has mentioned parts of the story was really based on his own experiences , it is indeed interesting to try and find out just which are . Being a piano student , the movie too was a showcase piece for his musical talents and prowess on the piano , coupled with computer generated graphics which enhanced certain scenes for dramatic effect with great aplomb . Those who think that Jay Chou can't act will want to rethink that again . Given Initial D was pop , and that Curse was action , Secret was a perfect dramatic platform for him to do a little more emoting , even though he can't seem to shake off his signature drawl . And of course some help to make him look good came from thespian Anthony Wong , who had also played his cinematic dad ( of similar interest / capability ) in Initial D , as he again does in Secret . Here , their father and son characters play off each other a little more in some endearing , comical moments , and naturally , Wong seemed a more believable father figure than Chow Yun-Fat for Jay Chou . The strength of the movie however laid in its story . I shall keep it a secret just exactly what it was , and all I can say is it is similar in nature to some of my favourite movies in the past , thus I had taken a natural liking for Secret as well . However , while you think you might have it all planned out how the story will unfold , Jay Chou actually had an added punch to keep it a little bit fresh , and in doing so , raises it to a slightly different level as well , with a fairly intense climax that will have you rooting for a desirable outcome , no less . What worked against it though , would be the verbatim nature in which the story was explained , making it a little draggy and at times , repetitive , instead of allowing the audience to put the pieces together . Jay Chou as story writer ( he had someone to script it for him ) , actor , director and composer , Secret turned out to be a surprisingly commendable , co mmendable effort . If this is any indication of what's to come from this talented dude , then I'll be more than happy to be a fan convert , for his cinematic efforts at least . Recommended date movie of the week , remember to bring out those tissues as well ! I won't be surprised if this movie will work its magic into my top ten list for the year .
A Nutshell Review : Hula Girls	This is a story about change . Hula Girls , based on true events , takes place in a small Japanese coal mining town in the late 60s , where its town folks find that with the shifting reliance on oil from coal , the survival of their town is at stake when a major company decides to retrench and cut its headcount . In attempts to makeover their economy ( ain't that familiar ) , the sleepy town has decided to come up with a " Hawaii Center " , a resort like facility where the warm atmosphere of Hawaii will be recreated in their cold / coal environment . It's a drastic change from blue collar to the service industry , and with the young girls being roped in to be dance performers , the traditionalists are up in arms , against the entire project . Skimpy outfits and gyrating moves don't make it easy , and neither does an outsider being roped in to teach the girls a new skill , turn out popular too . Hula Girls , winner of many awards in the 2006 Japanese equivalent of the Oscars , and also the Japanese submission to the 2007 Oscar's Best Foreign Language film , actually seemed a little too familiar in its narrative style , bringing to mind movies such as Waterboys , Swing Girls , Linda Linda Linda , and the more obvious reference and similarity , will be that of My Mother is a Belly Dancer , well , for most of the first half anyway . But perhaps with this familiarity , it took less time for the audience to identify with it , and it set on its focus to endear the key characters to the audience . As mentioned , it's about change , set against the backdrop of changing industries , attitudes , and skills . It's a heartwarming story no less , about the strength of sisterhood , where unity sees them battling challenges ahead , much against all odds , especially when adversity comes from within . It's not all serious as it sounds , as there are ample comedy infused , especially with its outcast characters such as the nerdy mom and the plus sized tomboy , and their initial attempts at performance during road trips advertising their new attraction . Like movies in the similar genre , it doesn't take long to identify the leader of the pack , in Kimiko ( Yu Aoi ) , as she becomes the protégé of the teacher Mrs Hirayama ( Yasuko Matsuyuki ) , given the thankless task of whipping the girls into shape . Yu Aoi is no doubt the star of the movie , with her good looks and time dedicated for her to show what it takes . And expect a number of sniffles as the filmmakers weaved in classical dramatic moments primarily aimed at activating those tear ducts . At its heart , it's a movie on the triumph of the human spirit against adversity , and of friendship . It's not without its flaws , like when certain transitions seemed to suffer from lack of time devoted to provide more depth , but when the formula comes to the end , with its rousing , highly anticipated finale showed in its entirety and in full regalia , you'll no doubt be giving full of applause for its showmanship . Definitely going into my books as a contender for the best movies of the year . Highly recommended , despite its slow start .
A Nutshell Review : The Bourne Ultimatum	Move aside Transformers . Retire John McClane . Matt Damon is back as the best of the best prototype secret agent-assassin Jason Bourne , and his Ultimatum wins the best action movie of the summer , hands down and without a single thread of doubt ! Loosely based on the Robert Ludlum novels of the same name , the movie version starring Damon in the titular role , have already established itself as serious , slick , and got almost everything right in the spy movie genre . It owned James Bond , and in my opinion , possibly one of the best franchises out there . Though the poster of the movie had Damon in a pose resembling Mark Wahlberg , the Bourne series is clearly the movies that boosted Damon's bankability as an A-list star , as we follow with much interest how Jason Bourne suffers from amnesia from Identity , to being hunted down and out for personal revenge in Supremacy , before coming back home to discover the background and truth of his identity in Ultimatum , which for some parts , had Wolverine styled flashbacks into a highly top secret project within the depths of the CIA . In this cat and mouse game , he becomes both the hunter and the hunted , interchanging between the roles as he tries to outwit the slew of assassins coming after him , since he's accused of committing treason and being the source of a leak . He's been on the run for three years , and there's no letting up , no thanks to Noah Vosen ( David Strathaim ) from the CIA , out for his blood , and who reports to someone who might hold the key to Bourne's own past . It's suspenseful action from the get go all the way to the end , and once it grips you , there's no letting go . The adrenaline you get from watching Ultimatum , is simply an indescribable feeling of joy for any action junkie out there . With tight links to the earlier movies , it pays if you have watched them prior to this , as Bourne maneuvers his way to find out who he is , and at the same time , build on the trust already established with his previous hunter Pamela Landy ( Joan Allen ) , who becomes his off the record source of help from the inside . Julia Stiles returns too as Nicky Parsons , and fans of Stiles will be glad with her slightly expanded role here providing that tinge of sexual tension between herself and Jason Bourne . The action scenes marked a slight departure from its predecessors , but for the better . The close quartered fisticuffs combat in the earlier movies have rather been quite a hallmark , as Bourne dispatches his opponents with hard hitting series of punches and kicks , and contained what is probably more realistic human to human fights which doesn't seem choreographed given its realism . But having too much of a good thing becomes a repetitive bore , and thankfully , such scenes are kept short and sharp , and few and far between . What is excellent here , is how Bourne utilizes more of his smarts to outwit , outplay and outlast his opponents , and those sequences in England and New York are testament to that - smart , adrenaline pumping , thrilling , and at the end of it , you can't help but to cheer ! Like any self-respecting spy movie , Ultimatum had its fair share of jetsetting locations in Europe clocking up frequent flyer miles . Nothing beats having to go to new location after new location where the story takes you , and being a man on the run , this is but part of standard protocol . And the movie can't be complete without the complimentary car chase sequence , and this Paul Greengrass directed installment could possibly have one of the best I've seen in re cent years , with the car as a battering ram , and everything going boom and bang right at your face , directly to the camera . I reckon if watch on the IMAX , you'll probably start to cower and shield yourself from the flying debris . The Bourne Ultimatum is a winner , and a fine wrap up of the franchise should it choose to end at this point . Besides the ending of Smokin Aces , the ending here will also be one of my personal favourites , as it cunningly showed everything coming to full circle , and with Moby's Extreme Ways , the theme song used in all the Damon-Bourne movies , comes blaring through the speakers , it's just plain sweetness . . .
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) Sleuth	Like 3 : 10 to Yuma , Sleuth has also been remade this year , and I'm watching the original as part of homework prior to the local release , hopefully , sometime soon . Based on a play by Anthony Shaffer , Sleuth is arguably one of the pioneers of the sleight of hand , and because it originally started off for the stage , the number of sets are limited , but that provides focus for the story , dialogue and characters , which most films of today tend to disregard and disguise their shortcomings with snazzy special effects . You'll be hard pressed to identify those which provide an equally intriguing story , and having pedigree thespians like Laurence Olivier and Michael Caine in its cast certainly is a bonus . In the remake , Michael Caine's Milo Tindle gets played by Jude Law , and I won't be surprised if along the way more of Caine's movies , if they do get remade , will get played by Law ( the first being Alfie ) , given Law's charmingly good looks and demeanour almost resembling Caine's on screen persona in his younger days as the quintessential Englishman . Sleuth tells the story of a wealthy renowned author of detective stories , Andrew Wyke ( Olivier ) inviting Milo to his ostentatious home , at first to partake in a few drinks , trivial chit chat , and plenty of game playing ( his home is rigged with so many tricks and toys ) , before something more sinister is revealed . Milo happens to be the secret lover of Andrew's wife Marguerite , and what transpires after that , is a psychological battle of wits to see who in actual fact , has the upper hand . What I liked about the story is its theme of humiliation . When you put someone down , and in the process strip him of all his humanity , fueling him with nothing but despair , making him beg for the right to live , what happens then ? Can everything be is all and end all with a simple apology , or to allow some getting back at , if so , where do you draw the line , and would you cross it ? And with a runtime of close to 2 . 5 hours , you can bet your last dollar that everything is more than meets the eye , and that's where Shaffer's story shines . It yanks the carpet under your feet again and again , without resorting to much trickery or too pretentious a premise that it becomes unbelievable . And despite it being made about 35 years ago , it has definitely withstood the test of time , which is a hallmark of all great stories . Having the acting chops of both Olivier and Caine also proved that you don't need ensemble casts , so long as you have great actors who deliver every time .
A Nutshell Review : Little Children	Welcome to suburbia ! It took director Todd Field 5 years to come up with another movie after In the Bedroom , which I watched back in 2001 . It's kinda strange that while at first glance I'd think his movies are a tad boring , in both occasions - for In the Bedroom and now Little Children , I ended up glued to the screen , and find myself sucked deeply into the proceedings . Somehow he managed to draw me into the story , feel for the characters , build up excellent tension all the way to the end , before releasing me from its grasp in the well thought finale . Things might not always be interesting , but Little Children offers a tight drama and excellent characterization . Based on a novel by Tom Perrotta who also co-wrote the screenplay with Todd Field , Little Children looked very much like Desperate Housewives in its introductory scenes , with the voice over narration , and well , housewives going about their daily routine of caring for their children , mindless idle chatter and gossips , and lusting over the " prom king " , their fantasy hunk who's actually a house-husband ( Patrick Wilson ) . That aside , it didn't take too long for the catalyst of a dare to spring things into motion , with Sarah ( Kate Winslet ) making bold contact with Brad ( Wilson ) , much to the dislike of her peers . It's interesting to note that neighbourhood politics also rears its ugly head , with ostracizing of fellow neighbours for trespassing against you even for the most minute , or inane reasons . This movie captured such moments succinctly , and no doubt you could probably identify a moment of two , whether you're on the side that dishes out such negativeness , or are actually on the receiving end . The relationship between Sarah and Brad , which becomes a highly sexually charged one , takes on a life of its own as it threatens their respective holy matrimony . But it's curious that you start to wonder if their dalliances could be justified in a warped sense of the way . Trapped in unhappy marriages with emotional zilch , it didn't seem that each of them will want to carry on making things work , instead opting for quick fixes with someone else , though it degenerates quickly to constant banging . It's a study into the lives of two families . Sarah and Richard Pierce ( Gregg Edelman ) , who experience a total meltdown in their ties when he exhibits his infidelity and probable deviant relationship with Slutty Kay . And Brad and Kathy Adamson ( Jennifer Connelly , totally hot , which states that there absolutely no logical reason why anyone would want to cheat on her ) , in their reversal of roles , financial issues and the former's lack of ambition , put a strain on their relationship , especially when Kathy isn't satisfying Brad's primal urges . Put two and two together , you see an immoral solution of revenge and an outlet for satisfaction , but two wrongs don't make a right . The respective spouses don't get much airtime ( a pity for fans of Connelly ) , though they serve as ample backdrop that yes , our adulterous couple are cheats in their own ways too . The movie makes you judge and question the intent and actions of the adulterers , and it doesn't make it easy with no clear answers , much like real life . Weaved into the main plot , is a separate short , though it may seem to be the more powerful one . Convicted pedophile Ronnie ( Jackie Earle Haley ) is released back to society , much to the resentment of the community he lives in . At first glance , he looks harmless , and you wonder if it could be another case of Boo Radley . But as we go along , again you're subconsciously drawing conclusions , while at the same time , made to understand the plights of a man who can't control his strange urges . You will probably feel sorry , then angry , and flip flopping between empathy and disgust . And in this story arc , it demonstrates that mother's love is almost always unconditional . Don't expect something like The Woods , but perhaps something a little more , from Jackie Earle Hayley's excellent acting , and the material he has to work upon . There are other sub plots put in , which spices the movie up , like the Guardians touch - football that boys will always be boys , the one man crusade against Jackie , and a scene which sums up the feelings of Sarah at a book club reading , which I thought their discussions accurately paralleled the emotions of what Sarah's going through at the moment . One thing to note is that the editing is seamless and smooth , which transitions between scenes almost flawlessly , though you can't help but to notice it . The movie might seem to go on and on , and somehow I almost wished that it wouldn't end ( seriously ) , but it built up to a tension filled conclusion and ended with what I think was a nice resolution to almost all the issues presented , though not all perfectly , or in the way it should be . But that's life , and life goes on . Little Children makes recommended watching this week .
A Nutshell Review : Sell Out !	My personal measure of an excellent comedy , is whether or not it reduces me to tears that roll uncontrollably coupled with some really deep-felt hearty laughter . While I'd like to pride myself with a good sense of humour , it does take some effort to really elicit that kind of a reaction from me , and Sell Out ! does that by the bucketloads , and through a variety of methods ranging from slapstick to the wry , from the staring-in-your-face obvious to the wink-wink-insider-jokes too . Yeo Joon Han dug deep into his plethora of talent , wearing the hats for producing , writing , editing , directing and , check this out - writing the songs ( lyrics and music composition ) as well ! And the songs are a definite highlight of the film , while not so much a musical per-se , but does have characters breaking into song to move the narrative forward . And in true , witty nature , look out for that moment that calls for YOUR participation ! Jack Neo may feel threatened that Joon Han's Money song easily rivals those he oft feature in his Money No Enough series , but my personal fan-favourite amongst the tunes would be " You're Not My Type " , with Jerrica Lai and Peter Davis delivering a duet that has to be experienced with proper sound on the big screen for its wonderful accompanying visuals that capture character emotions just perfectly . From the get go , Joon Han delivers every step of the way , all the way to the final frame , without condescending nor making the audience feel stupid . Rather , he turned the tables on himself first , in self-deprecating fashion to introduce himself as an arty-farty director and pokes fun at question-and-answer , art and commercial films , and you'll even be treated to a screening of his award winning short with some really inane dialogue . From that point on with your attention arrested , Joon Han throws every subject into the narrative almost effortlessly , with themes that are easily identifiable , but always keeping an eye out to ensure that the fun factor in every scene is never lost . Sell Out ! boasts some superb " mo-lei-tau " scenes coming in from the blind side to tickle that funny bone of yours , capturing little things that irritate in life and provide a fun spin to them , from pop culture to SMS reality shows , and who would know that Death could be so funny as well . There's a really brilliant scene in the film alongside a deathbed that encompassed plenty , and makes it all the more worthwhile for repeated viewings just to catch every possible punchline from that scene . Those paying close attention during the film will be richly rewarded with plenty of funny nuances that we would immediately guffaw at , and sly subtitles also have a life of their own , to hilarious effect . But it's not always all fun and games , and that's why this film is such the gem that it is . There's a clear commentary about doing work with heart , and wanting to be appreciated for a job well done , versus gritting your teeth and doing something that betrays your moral conscience . There's also a sharp underlying critique on modern society in general , and on corporate governance ( or the lack thereof ! ) since what more could you expect from a conglomerate that calls itself FONY and has a one-liner , though succinctly easy to understand mission statement , to " make money " , which is after all , the basic reasons for corporations to exist . The cast too are gutsy enough to trust the debut feature filmmaker , lending their vocals and performing the songs many themselves . I'd like to think that this could have also been a romance , with Eric Tan ( Peter Davis ) the honest and un-business savvy engineer with his 8-in-1 Super Soya Maker , being infatuated with Rafflesia Pong ( Jerrica Lai ) the ruthless , uncompromising go-getter who cannot wait to show her rival , the hot pan-Asian Hanna Edwards Leong ( Hannah Lo ) a thing or two about the ratings game . Then we have the scene stealers with Kee Thuan Chye and Lim Teik Leong as the Smoking and Forgetful CEOs respectfully , encompassing what we dread and probably hate most about corporate bosses who think they can get away with anything in the name of profits . There are some wonderful characterization amongst the leads , with an ensemble supporting cast to add colour , which reminded me of Citizen Dog when the man in the street joins in for a chorus about Money . Rarely has a film captured so much in under 120 minutes and making sense of it all through well-placed humour . As such , Sell Out ! has my firm vote as a personal favourite and the best of the Festival thus far , being the breath of fresh air amongst many stuffy entries that had misplaced artistic merits , alienating themselves from audiences who feel that in depressing times , we can't help but reject yet another self-indulgent movie . Sell OUt ! has nothing of that , and has set itself as a contender for my year end roundup of the best offerings in 2009 . If it was left up to me , I'd give this film both the Best Film and Best Director prizes at the Silver Screen Awards at the SIFF . The commercial release is due soon on May 7 on both sides of the Causeway , so whatever you do , please make Sell Out ! your must watch ( ! - I must exclaim this ) movie this year ! Join the Facebook group here ! And get the soundtrack from the shops while waiting for it to hit the screens ! Support good storytelling , and enjoy a great film !
A Nutshell Review : Under the Same Moon	It's been a while since I experienced in the movies , a mother's love for her young child , and vice versa , being the primary focus of the film , especially with one that dealt with distance and longing . The last one that truly moved me was the Japanese film Be With You , and no prizes for guessing that this Mexican number Under the Same Moon will join its ranks . The title is nothing new though , as with movies as far back like An American Tale , where its theme song played on that exact same premise , of having to gaze up at the moon knowing that the person in your heart is probably doing the same thing and thinking of you too . Yes , such saccharine sweet sentimentalism , but it worked wonders here . Directed by first time feature helmer Patricia Riggen , the movie follows both mother and son characters in separate threads , having been separated for many years , but keeping in touch through weekly Sunday telephone calls from public phone booths both sides . For Carlitos ( Adrian Alonso ) , despite the gifts that mom sends back home to him , he misses her much and prefers that she is back in Mexico rather than working in the US . For mom Rosario ( Kate del Castillo ) , she smuggled herself illegally to Los Angeles for work in order to raise their lot . But when his guardian grandmother passes away , Carlitos begins to plot his way to get himself to the LA within the week , to look for Rosario lest she calls home and worries that he's missing . So begins the adventures of Carlitos as he begins to learn that the world is indeed full of unseen bad folks who will not hesitate to traffic him to child smugglers . And many of the scenes for his character have him interact with a reluctant surrogate father figure in fellow illegal Enrique ( Eugenio Derbez ) . For Rosario , her character piece becomes like a showcase of the much generalized exploitation of illegal workers , as well as going through the usual aspirations of being a naturalized citizen so that she can finally bring her son over for reunification . Otherwise for the most parts she's often debating within herself whether it's high time to return to Mexico since her intention and goal seem to slip by every day , given being swindled as we are told , by her previous owner , and of course making sense of the love that a fellow Mexican has for her . Some might complain that they can probably see how the story would develop as it wore on , but you have to admit that Adrian Alonso's charismatic Carlitos will still have you engaged throughout with that cherubic face of his , brimming with faith and confidence . While he might have started off pondering a lot on why his mom did what she have to do , soon he will learn , and we accompany him on this journey , a thing or two about love and concern . Given that he doesn't share the same screen for the most parts with his mum , it sort of became key that he constructs and builds upon his initial dislike for Enrique much like a parallel contrast with that relationship with his mother , up until the final moments which was probably a bit deus ex machina , and felt a little rushed somehow . But on the whole , Under the Same Moon serves its purpose and delivered itself well thanks to its great casting . And it also makes for a perfect date movie too , with a reminder to bring along some Kleenex for the finale . Highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : The Fountain	After watching Darren Aronofsky's The Fountain , I realize why some booed and walked out during its screening last year in the Venice Film Festival . This is one movie which you'll either hate to the core , or simply love . No in-betweens because it doesn't allow you to , with its storyline totally , and I mean totally , open to an individual's interpretation , which makes it truly unique . I suspect if I were to watch it again , and multiple times even , each experience will be different , as you draw upon and focus inevitably on different aspects of the plot . Such is how diverse and layered The Fountain is . For those enticed into this movie by its trailers , let me say that this is one which the editing of the snippets make it look so accessible , you'd think you know the plot . The fact is , you'll probably be shell shocked within the first 15 minutes , akin to drowning and desperately gasping for any pocket of air that will help keep you alive , just for a little while more . And my advice is to stick to it , grit your teeth , bear with it , as slowly , bit by bit , with more details revealed , you'd start to see some semblance of the plot , though still stuck with the difficulty of assembling all the pieces into their rightful place . This is a story about love , loss , spirituality , myth , science fiction , fantasy , all rolled into one . It contains fantastical elements for the most parts , which you'll have to take them for what you will . And you have to salute Aronofsky's storytelling craft , for wielding together chunks of seemingly disparate plot elements and dialogue to tie in so intricately to one another , becoming a mirror to its talk about the circle of life . Almost every spoken line of dialogue becomes a visual element , every action measured and not wasted , and when seen as a whole with that helicopter hindsight , just masterfully done . The music by Clint Mansell is extremely seductive , probably one of the best I've heard in recent times , complimenting the visuals perfectly , eliciting every mood out of you on cue , becoming that directional signboard to follow even when the environment around you becomes confusing . If there is a gripe , then it should fall on the close-ups and fast cuts during night action pieces , like what Batman Begins had . The next paragraph contains extremely mild spoilers , so skip it if you don't want to know , in my opinion , how you should anchor yourself to gain some bearings . Hugh Jackman plays , amongst others , Dr Tom Creo , a man obsessed with seeking out a cure for his wife , Izzi Creo's ( Rachel Weisz ) cancer . He knows that time is running out , and you feel his pain of wanting to be by her side as she spends her last days , versus spending more time devoting himself to his research , for that breakthrough he needs that can heal Izzi . That basically sums up the central story from which to base whatever happens outside this narrative structure , where , depending on how you look at it , will give you totally different interpretations . The following is my take , which contains MAJOR spoilers , and you should read it only if you've watched the movie . Otherwise , skip the next two paragraphs . SPOILER STARTS What happened in medieval Spain , I would believe , is Izzi's written story , and it makes a heartfelt one . Like the Queen , she believes in her knight , sending him on an errand to the Mayan land , vis a vis Dr Tom's quest for a cure , to allow them to live together , forever . She stands firm in adversary , ever optimistic , and in total trust of her man . It ended the way it did , because it became Tom's story , entrusted by his wife to complete the book , to write the final chapter , because in truth , the outcome will depend on how his research / quest will turn out to be . And with that slightest of hope ( the little rubbing of the sap from the Tree of Life on his wound ) , it developed to a possible full fledged cure , but alas all is lost , too much too late , and he lost his will to live - what use is the solution , when the problem no longer exist ? But he has the other side of the equation to choose from - instead of giving up on himself , to continue with his efforts so that others might live . This follows the futuristic tale ( of what could happen in future ) , of travelling into the nebula together , of the Mayan belief of rebirth and new life , of the sacrifices one makes , so that others will benefit from the fruits of your labour . The end is presented in an amalgam , of the choices presented in itself , and the difficulties in making that sole decision , and the exploration , and probable existential feeling , that perhaps both can co-exist together . That Dr Tom Creo chose both to grieve his personal pain and loss , but yet to seek strength from that grieve , to continue , symbolized by his planting of the seed atop his wife's grave , as in the Mayan story of a new life . SPOILER ENDSAll I can say is , go to The Fountain with a very open mind . Like a sponge , absorb the proceedings , groove to the soundtrack , listen intently to every whisper , gaze intensely at the visuals . Feel , people , don't analyze during , do it after . It's gonna be extremely rewarding , and a very memorable , trippy ride .
A Nutshell Review : Zodiac	Serial killers make good villainous subjects for movies , especially notorious ones who never get caught , like Jack the Ripper , spinning off countless of movie adaptations , each with its own theories on who might be the real perpetrator , and responsible for the creation of a subculture devoted to their study and conspiracy theories as natural by products . While England had her own uncaught cult slasher , America's San Francisco Bay Area had its own serial killer to contend with , someone who calls himself the Zodiac , responsible for taking the lives of plenty in the late 60s . The hallmark of this killer is his terrorist tactics of fear and threats , and the constant taunts and demands made to both the press and the police , belittling and challenging them to come out one step ahead . His killings seem almost random , and employed various weapons from guns to knives , and those cryptic coded messages sent to the press that could have its root keys from anywhere . With a runtime of 158 minutes , you hardly notice the time whittle by as you become transfixed throughout the entire movie . David Fincher helmed this as a tight ship , firmly knowing its destination , while riding out the complexity of it all , spanning almost a timeline of a decade . Based on the books by Robert Graysmith , a cartoonist for the San Francisco Chronicles portrayed by Jake Gyllenhaal , this film doesn't end with a cop out , as it firmly hypothesizes , and supports its theories with whatever evidence it can get its hands on , circumstantial or otherwise . It doesn't flinch from pointing that accusatory finger . I thought it combined many of the best elements found in Fincher's earlier works , from the obvious stylistic feel of Se7en , also itself a serial killer movie , the effects of Fight Club and the mindgames that its characters play , and of course , the general feel of doom and gloom of Panic Room . Light and Shadows become so integral that we take their contribution to heighten senses of tension for granted , and the rain brought back the memories of that classic confrontational scene from Se7en , though here , it cleanses and erases plausible leads , as if to start all over again to untangle from the messy investigations that trailed off over time . Those expecting a lot of action in the recreation of the Zodiac killings might be disappointed , and I thought Fincher had steered clear of the obvious , where lesser directors might have played up on those gruesome murders , or photographs from the actual crime scene . Here , it's more of a presentation on what could have happened based on eyewitness and police reports , and it doesn't glorify . With the real life folks who were involved in the cases onboard as consultants , you know that this is as authentic as it can get . What makes Zodiac engaging is that the movie engages you right from the start , as you take on this investigative journey with the main leads in Robert Graysmith ( Gyllenhaal ) , Paul Avery the Chronicle's senior crime report , played by Robert Downey Jr , and Inspector Dave Toshi of the San Francisco Police Department , portrayed by Mark Ruffalo . We see how the case develops into an obsession for each of these men , as we encounter countless of confusion , red tape , turf protection , dedication to due process , and hindrance . The various departments involved can't work together , and attempts at cooperation are mountains to climb . So it's no wonder that cases like these that span different boundaries , often come up to naught , or take ages to get cracked on . Zodiac is told in two seamless halves , with the first devoted to the killings and methodology of the killer , and the second giving Graysmith more screen time as he goes for a second helping at trying to piece the puzzles together right from the very beginning . After all , that's one way to do it when stuff turn out all over the place , and the trail gets cold . It's classic investigative journalism , and builds to a resounding crescendo , while you too get frustrated at what can , and cannot be done , what can be presented as evidence , and how circumstantial evidence , strong as they may seem , will always remain circumstantial despite it being possibly damning . There are genuine creepy moments that will get to you , even though there's nothing horrific , or ghoulish about those scenes . That's classic Fincher for you , making your hair stand with achieved subtlety . Despite its huge cast list and extras , the key leads all delivered strong performances , bringing the movie onto another level , more so with the film's excellent music from the era , and its art direction and sets recreating the 70s SF . And for film buffs , well , Dirty Harry was after all based on the killings and taunting tactics of Zodiac too . Possibly the best movie to hit our screens this week , surpassing those lacklustre trilogy blockbusters . A definite must watch , so it's well worth that effort to journey to those few screens with warped timings .
A Nutshell Review : Gubra	The richness is in the relationships between the characters . Is love and forgiveness , intertwined ? Probably . We contrast adultery experienced by a modern couple , and that between traditional folks of an older generation . On one hand , we have the blissful , model couple in Orked's parents and the muezzin and his wife , but on the other , it seemed that the Lees , in spite of their constant squabbling , actually do love each other , in a rather subdued manner . Spouses who stick together despite abuse , is it because there's no choice , or does it demonstrate to a certain extent , true love , and constant forgiveness towards the hateful things one says to another ? It's interesting to see that there were certain dialogue which mentioned the potential " goodness " of marrying to someone of a different race , but we know , at the end of the day , idealistic as it may sound , it all boils down to the basic conduct of how a person lives out his humanity . On a rather lighthearted note , we also see a budding infatuation between a hospital attendant and Orked's maid , contributing to the initial stage of budding love , and jealousy which the driver experienced . It's a totally different ballgame in the muezzin storyline . We do see the very close knit family unit of a religious man , which is contrasted with that of the single parent prostitute who has to bring up her young son . She does what she does out of pure basic survival , and is seeking forgiveness from God for the lifestyle she decided upon . The introduction of a gambler used to portray domestic violence was painful to watch , though it is through these episodes and down-trodden characters , we see the compassion extended by the muezzin and hi wife . They live simply , but are happy with their lot . Something that we can emulate with being contented with what we have . The usual social observations that we noticed in Sepet also found its footing in Gubra . You wonder and are amazed at how the director managed to skillfully weave them in together with the narrative . It doesn't prod disrespectfully , but in subtleness lies its effectiveness . The multi-lingual , racial , religious society of Malaysia is again highlighted through the same narrative style , be it in dialogue or action . Liked that moment of conversation Orked shared with Alan when in his pickup truck en route to some grub . Indeed being in a multi-ethnic country ourselves , we can identify easily with almost everything discussed on screen . Gubra , like Sepet , started off simple , as simple as butter spread on bread , breakfast lovingly made by a wife for her husband in the early morning . But just like Sepet , if I could paraphrase what Yasmin mentioned , we are taken on a joyride before thrown on the tracks . Gubra had a simple intro to the muezzin storyline , and a comedic intro to Orked's story . But things aren't meant to last as we see . Like Sepet , we are drawn into their world through its light hearted moments , yet we witness events that spiral emotionally downwards from then on . Being cheated upon and having promises broken is never easy to handle . It makes it worse when matrimonial vows are broken so easily , as we witness with Arif's infidelity , and his constant lies . It's painful to watch Orked undergo this betrayal , although she managed to keep herself composed ( I wonder if it's a conscious effort on hairstyling , during the funny periods in the beginning , it was like a lion's mane , and when she left the husband , it's all coiffed up nicely ) . We know she's capable of having stand up for herself given her strong will , and leaving her husband , given her leaving Jason when he confessed to having impregnated someone else . But we're led into another theme of forgiveness , if she'll forgive Arif just as she forgave Jason . One might say that it is easier to forgive the latter because there was no sacred vows taken between man and wife . That of forgiveness and compassion also featured in the other storyline . Compassion through inaction can serve as a double edged sword . While you hope that through compassion , you would touch another person to change their ill ways , but if it's a deep rooted rot , we'll never know how we could have helped to avoid tragedy , if we had not exhibited that emotion in the first place . There are plenty of scenes which highlights Yasmin's wry humour , sometimes to elevate the seriousness and tragedy , without much dialogue , but told through images . Like the scene in the clinic where the erectile dysfunction poster teases you , yet you're anticipating the discovery of the seriousness of an illness not mentioned explicitly , but suggested through another common poster . Or the savage attack near the end , which we do not get to see , but we know from an earlier scene how wrong and dangerous it can get . It's simple , yet complicated . Beautiful , yet tragic . I heart this movie !
A Nutshell Review : Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix	Finally , Harry Potter's gotten a decent clean cut hairstyle , compared to that ghastly shaggy dog manes that he spotted in the previous installment Goblet of Fire . The much touted scene here is The Kiss ( about 1 hour into the movie ) , but seriously , that's much ado about nothing compared to what the rest of the movie has in store for audiences around the world . Just so you know , I've still not read any of the books by JK Rowling thus far , preferring to rely on cinematic magic to condense the ever increasing thickness of the novels into 2hrs and 10-20mins of full sensory invasion . As a movie franchise installment , it doesn't waste time introducing characters or what's been done - either you know it , or you don't . So for those who have not watched Goblet of Fire , then please do , as Order of the Phoenix starts off pretty much from where the previous left off , with Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) left haunted with his experience of battle with the dark Lord Voldermot ( Ralph Fiennes , who also gained recent notoriety with his mile high exploits ) . Soon he finds himself devoid of friends , save for those loyal 2 - Hermione Granger ( Emma Watson ) and Ron Weasley ( Rupert Grint ) , and plenty of pent up teenage angst of being unable to figure things out and make things right . Yes , Harry's all grown up now , and instead of the usual teenage dalliances , he gets troubled with the ways of the world , of school politics , ministry politics , an evil Lord after his blood , and many more just to make him break . Even the staunch fatherly figures of godfather Sirius Black ( Gary Oldman ) and Headmaster Dumbledore ( Michael Gambon ) seem so distant when he needed to reach out . Our boy wizard surely has his plate full . Without spoiling the plot , I thought the movies have already developed a formula in presentation , and its predictability comes in the form of starting with the Muggles , then a little scuffle , before proceeding to Hogwarts for the semester , uncover a certain mystery , get tangled into that mystery , where solving it leads to a major fight sequence , followed finally with some resolution , yet having a reminder loom around that while the micro stuff have been attended to , the macro issue of his parentage , his scar , his affiliation with Voldermot , are still not addressed in its entirety , and satisfactorily . Despite the structure , I've come to enjoy the franchised installments so far , as they play out like X-Files episodes - with mysteries that can be solved within the episode itself , yet having that long drawn conspiracy theories that continue to make you come back , just to learn whatever you can on new developments . As our characters grow ( and actors grow in real world time ) , the story also develops and becomes more mature - gone are the cutesy antics in the earlier movies , and these get replaced by the darker themes , and in both mood and tone . Certain subplots do seem to get introduced quite haphazardly , but I suppose they're there as unmovable plot devices in order to stay true to the novel's actual plot development . The supporting cast continue to grow , and the introduction of Imelda Staunton's Folores Umbridge will indeed incense anyone - the quintessential teacher from Hell . Fans of Hermione and Ron will perhaps rue that their idols somehow get lesser screen time , and spend most times in the background . But I thought that each time when they get together and the scene is just on our 3 buddies , you just can't help but feel for the camaraderie so strongly forged , given that they've spent years and 5 movies together already . There's a scene where they smiled ( yes it's that simple ) , but somehow , it rung through as being so genuine , so heartwarming in spite of the story's contextual doom and gloom , it's like a beacon of hope that no worries , everything will be alright . That simple scene alone won me , that this is indeed a movie with important themes on love and friendship , that in the face of adversary , you just know who to count on . Some may complain that the movie doesn't really feature much or new magic spells , but that I believe stays true to the storyline with many of Umbridge's unwarranted rules and regulations imposed on the student population . But when it's time to duke it out , I'd say the special effects were second to none , with the battles between the magic practitioners nothing less than spectacular , and since it's done by Industrial Light and Magic , then I'll state that they have been designed to be more intense that the Star Wars lightsabre fights - given of course we're dabbling in the realm of magic , where anything and everything goes , and to perfection as rendered in the movie - truly an awesome sight to behold when the masters settle it mano a mano . I think this is the best Harry Potter movie so far ( I've made mention that Goblet of Fire was , back in late 2005 ) , even though it's still a cock tease . Guess we've got 10 days to find out what will really happen to the boy wizard , and thereafter , stay interested enough to want to watch the remaining two movies . I'd like to say that I can't wait ( to read about the ending in Deathly Hallows , and for the last 2 movies to be made ) .
A Nutshell Review : Black Book	I guess the most obvious comparison this movie will go up against , is Lee Ang's Lust , Caution . Both are set during WWII in lands under Axis power occupation , and both involve using the adage of Generals having to stumble over the lure of beauties . This strategy is quite basic in fact and execution , and both movies involve having an ingenue infiltrate their enemy's territory by getting up close and very personal with the respective officers in command , taking a little more than the spreading of limbs to pander to the lusts of men . Even though I had enjoyed Lust , Caution , I would have to say that Black Book notches a rung above it , simply because of it more superior production values , and a storyline a tad more complex and intriguing , that makes the Ang Lee movie look like a walk in the park . Granted that Lust , Caution involves a story on a more intimate level between two lovers , coupled with the more explicit and widely talked about sexual gymnastics between the leads , Black Book has a more end-to-end feel about wartime espionage in general , with various elements like intelligence gathering , gung-ho raids , assassination and capture , tactics associated these days with terrorist elements and the much used association with freedom fighters all rolled into one coherent story , and keeps you guessing almost all the way with its spy vs spy plotting and counter-plotting , double , triple timing and the poisoning of minds . For its ability to do just that , this is one WWII espionage movie I'll be recommending for quite a while . Set in 1944 Netherlands near the end of WWII , we see how Rachel Stein ( Carice van Houten ) , a Jew , had to take refuge on the move to avoid capture by the Nazis . Being reunited with her family in their flight from Holland , their escape boat got ambushed by enemy soldiers , and needless to say who had survived the ordeal . Using a new look and new identity as Ellis de Vries , she joins the resistance led by Gerben Kuipers ( Derek de Lint ) and Hans Akkermans ( Thom Hoffman ) , before being given an opportunity to perform missions more dangerous than being a flower vase in their operations , having demonstrated that she has the intelligence to pull off something more than just sit and smile . And soon she's sent packing to the regional Gestapo HQ where she has to seduce her mark Ludwig Muntze ( Sebastian Koch ) . Yes , Lust , Caution style all over again , minus the gymnastics , but in Paul Verhoeven style , if you don't get gratuitous violence , you'll get gratuitous nudity . But this movie is not just about how satisfying the sex was for the enemy in order to let slip information that can be used by the resistance . Hell no , it goes more into the questionable motives of all , and I mean all , characters involved . As she was advised early in the story , these are dangerous times to be trusting anyone , and with that ringing in our minds , we too begin to mistrust just about everyone else in the movie , except for of course our heroine . What I particularly enjoyed , is just how all this lack of trust permeates amongst everyone , even amongst the Resistance , and more so amongst fellow German officers who make side deals and go for personal material gains to satisfy their greed . It's spy vs spy not only amongst the rival groups , but amongst their factions as well , that makes your head go in a dizzy trying to figure things out and ponder about everyone's loyalties . That mental exercise of drawing you into the story rather than to sit idly and watching things as they transpire on screen , makes Black Book a certain winner . And with these flip-flopping loyalties come the demand from the actors to pull them off . Carice van Houten can give Tang Wei a run for her money , especially when Carice seems more like the tough-as-nails cookie who isn't the demure damsel in distress . She has a lot more spunk in her and does a whole lot more , and if I had to choose between who's the better spy amongst the two , I'd give Carice's Ellis my vote hands down . Sebastian Koch who plays her mark Muntze however , doesn't come across as menacing or dangerous enough though , while Thom Hoffman shone through as the roguish looking resistance fighter who's always first to volunteer for any firefight . Black Book was released in 2006 , which left me wondering why it took so long to arrive on our shores . I had the opportunity to watch it during last year's Hong Kong International Film Festival , but due to scheduling conflicts , had to give the ticket up . So don't waste anymore time in getting to watch this on the big screen at The Picturehouse , which is already into its second week run . Well paced , excellent story and highly engaging , if you don't care much for the Panda , then please open the Black Book and give it a go . Highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : The Curious Case of Benjamin Button	When I was born my mom said I looked like an old man . Like everyone else , I turned out to be pretty normal , unlike The Curious Case of Benjamin Button where he's physically developing in the opposite , suffering from common aged ailments like cataracts , hearing , and arthritis first , but mentally developing in proper chronology . One can imagine the challenges of everyone thinking you'll die soon enough , before a miracle actually happens and you're like having drunk some elixir of life , probably a little too much too . Some would compare David Fincher's movie to Robert Zemeckis ' Forrest Gump . Both have charismatic characters living out a dream of a life despite the challenges that life had unfairly laid out for them , one being mentally slow , the other being physically not quite right . Like Gump , Button ( Brad Pitt in various astounding make up and effects ) lives an extremely fulfilling life , having their tale peppered with significant ground breaking events , some of which they get involved in , others just serving as bookends in a narrative that span lifetimes . These become wonderful stories to tell , like Tim Burton's Big Fish , and actually , quite inspiring too to live a life seizing any opportunities that come your way . Similarly , Ben Button has a strong mother character to take care of him , and here's where Taraji P . Henson's Queenie gets her supporting Oscar nod . Working in the home for the aged , Ben's father Thomas ( Jason Flemyng ) abandons the odd looking infant at the footsteps of the home , only for Queenie to show extreme compassion , and to bring up the infant like her own , full of love , blind to the fact that he is physically very different from everyone else . And Love is something Ben isn't falling short of , having to meet and love the very captivating Daisy ( Cate Blanchett ) , where their initial encounter being very much frowned upon , like a dirty old man trying to take advantage of a sweet young thing . It is this love that anchors the bulk of the second act , which makes it touching yet sad as you know of the collision course where this love is heading toward . I recall a scene in another movie , and you may have heard variations of this tale , where a woman asks her husband whom he preferred to meet their Maker first . The man says for his wife to kick the bucket before he does , only so because he wouldn't want her to suffer from a broken heart before her time , and to let him be punished that way instead . It is this nagging feeling that the characters experience , and both Blanchett and Pitt's performances allow the audience to empathize . David Fincher is best known for his darker movies like Panic Room , Fight Glub , Se7en , and Zodiac , and I thought The Curious Case of Benjamin Button continues this trend , in that it's draped in melancholy through and through . There's always a sad tinge to the events in Ben's life , because growing up with older people around you would mean that you experience death a lot more than growing up with peers . But that's not to say it's always doom and gloom . There are certain lighthearted moments thrown in to break the heaviness , and those lightning stories will certainly be fondly remembered way after the end credits roll . Fincher too displays some deft storytelling techniques here in keeping the narrative from turning stale , and one extremely well executed scene involved plenty of What-Ifs that lays out what Fate would have decided for anyone . To some , Benjamin Button may seem boring , but they are totally missing the point . The 166 minutes here were paced fabulously , never wasting any time , and yet providing enough breathing space to pause and appreciate the story , the characters , the art direction , and to soak in the wonderful cinematography . And not forgetting an ensemble supporting cast to prop and pad the central relationship between Ben and Daisy , from parents to friends , to everyone else that pops in and out offering life's lessons through fated encounters . The people that one meets define your life in a certain sense I believe . Through Fate we know each other , and little episodes spice your life up in ways that you cannot imagine , until you look back and wonder just how much had gone by , and how much one had experienced . The latest Facebook meme on 25 Random Things had made me recall some wonderful moments shared with people who have entered my life at various points , and to those who think their lives are not rich , I encourage them to dig deep , and find certain joy in recalling those moments . Here , we journey with Jula Ormond's Caroline as she reads through a diary and co-narrates the story of Benjamin Button , in little episodes that grab your attention throughout . The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a delightfully fine film , with an engaging story about life in itself , and deserves every single one of its 13 nominations in this year's Academy Awards . It's up against some stiff competition , but I'm fairly confident it will hold its own and not return empty handed . Definitely highly recommended , and easily an early contender as best film of the year thus far .
A Nutshell Review : Changeling	J . Michael Straczynski of Babylon 5 fame wrote Changeling , which is based on the true story of one woman's fight against corruption , incompetence , accusations and intimidation , all the while in searching for the truth of what happened to her beloved 9 year old son , who vanished without a trace , only for the LAPD to try and convince her that the boy they found , was indeed her son . But that's just the gist of the first hour with plenty more in store , keeping you gripped to the screen as the story develops . I continue to admire the very human stories under the direction of Clint Eastwood . His films over the last few years have been nothing less than excellent , and Changeling adds to this stellar repertoire of his . There's a certain quiet confidence in the way his films get presented , like a veteran hand masterminding all elements to fall in place perfectly . What more , it's always a treat to have the film's score composed by Eastwood himself , and the main theme is already buzzing in my head already , way after the end credits have rolled . But of course the star of the show here is Angelina Jolie . While we had not the opportunity to watch her dramatic turn in A Mighty Heart on the big screen where she plays a woman searching for her husband and for the truth , we do get to see her here playing a mother searching for her child and for answers . I particularly liked the line where she said she's not here to pick fights , but she sure would finish one , and that practically sums her her fiercely combative character in a film where she doesn't get to literally kick arse . I guess local distributors prefer to play it safe and continue to feed us with the alpha-female roles that Jolie plays , from Lara Croft to Wanted , that it's a rare opportunity to see her in a dramatic role , reminding us that she has won awards before for such roles . This is certainly a chance not to miss , because there are numerous moments where she demonstrated her acting chops . I still cannot forget that one brilliant scene , which was almost the equivalent of Ralph Fiennes ' in The Constant Gardener , where she didn't have to say her word , but just her expression alone had painted the phrase " prepared for the worst , but hoping for the best " . That alone is worth the price of an admission ticket . I suppose being a real life mother , she would have no problems with translating what would possibly be any mother's fear of losing their child suddenly and without explanation . She provides a very solid performance that hinged on everyone in the audience being able to connect with her plight and exasperation , of sympathizing with her , and rooting for her as she faces obstacle after obstacle as she goes about doing sensible things that the authorities frown upon . You'll seethe with rage when others give that can't-be-bothered attitude to a helpless mom , and feel pity that while more could be done , no finger was lifted . You'll share that tinge of hope that things will turn out for the better , and feel sad at the disappointments faced along the way , each time hoping that the outcome would be better than the last . And here's where Straczynski's story excels . There are a number of threads running that converge nicely together , and while the movie clocks in over 140 minutes , you'll never feel time plod , as you get engaged into the story , feel for the characters , and at the same time , enjoy the excellent recreation of the 1920s . There's a little bit of everything that managed to cram itself here , from mystery to courtroom drama , showcasing a variety of story settings , dealing with themes such as justice and integrity . It also contains a very strong critique of authority which is given too much power without proper checks and balances , that such power could be corrupted and abused for personal gain , before it takes those who are resolute in doing the right thing , to push for change . John Malkovich has a supporting role here as Reverend Gustav Briegleb , who has a congregation behind him as he tells it as it is in his weekly radio shows , and provides much needed intervention to assist Jolie's Christine Collins along the way . Changeling becomes the first movie this new year that I would highly recommended without hesitation . Go watch it when it opens on the 15th !
A Nutshell Review : 3 : 10 to Yuma	It's been a long wait for the remake of 3 : 10 to Yuma to finally reach our cinemas . In fact , the Code 1 DVD is already out , and I thought it was probably missed opportunity if there are interested folks out there who decide to get the DVD instead of catching it on the big screen . I do not understand why the need for the delay , contrary to the belief that it is a Western movie which might be an unpopular genre to go into , and of course , I can only recall a handful which made it to cinemas here in recent times - Dances with Wolves , Unforgiven , Tombstone and Wyatt Earp - the last 2 being movies about the legendary lawman and the shootout at OK Corral . Some 50 years ago , audiences were introduced to the duo of impoverished rancher Dan Evans ( then played by Van Heflin ) and the number one outlaw of the land , Ben Wade ( Glenn Ford ) . As the story goes , Evans has to feed a family and the poor harvest and weather aren't doing him any favours . As Wade gets captured , volunteers are immediately called for to escort him to the town of Contention , to put him onboard the 3 : 10 train to Yuma jail , hence the title . Two powerful actors have now taken over the mantle of the 2 rivals , namely Russell Crowe ( who's having a comeback of sorts to our screens with the recently released American Gangster ) , and Christian Bale in respective roles . And unlike American Gangster which had again 2 high profile actors sharing top billing , Bale and Crowe share a lot of screen time together , thus boosting the appeal of the remake . Even for those who have seen the original , I am glad to say that on the whole , this version ranks far superior than the original version . The earlier version , being made half century ago , will definitely need a decent update for modern audiences , and that aspect did not disappoint , with more in-depth character development , and exciting shootouts . However , in my opinion , the ending of the original packed far more a punch that this one , given that the ending in the 2007 version is likely to be more in line with stories these days - the cynical , non-saccharine sweet ending . If it followed the original closely , then most audiences would have found it trying as most of the movie took place in a hotel room where the duo are waiting for the awaited time to make a run for the train station . Here , director James Mangold and scribes Halsted Welles , Michael Brandt and Derek Haas decided to boost the middle section with a detour to Apache land and encountering railroad builders ( check out Luke Wilson ! ) , presenting again more threats to the group escorting Ben Wade . Also , Ben Wade is presented in a more menacing manner , constantly probing the group and looking for opportunities to make his escape , rather than the rather subdued original which didn't exhibit any notion of danger . What I also found to be a leg up , was the swapping of importance between Evan's wife Alice ( Gretchen Mol ) and his son William ( Logan Lerman ) , which eliminated a rather awkward moment in the original where Alice paid Dan a visit whilst holed up in the hotel room . The structure and development otherwise remained about the same , and even some lines from the classic were reused in this remake , in particular in the first half of the movie . Character wise , you can't get any more better than having Crowe and Bale flesh out their characters and giving both a sense of angst , who on a better day , could probably have been good friends . You follow them as the duo gain newfound respect for each other , and the longer running time provided ample chances for the audience to find reason to connect , and understand the characters at a deeper level . Ben Wade was given time to show that he isn't all bad , despite what he tells others and from what he had done to gain his notorious reputation , and in Dan Evans , he finds the kind of life that he yearns for - beautiful wife and family , with sons who look up to the dad - but will probably never get , unless you count the mercenary hoodlums as family ( Ben Foster in a truly badass role ) . And from Evans , learning his true motivations for this suicidal job , could have made any grownup feel sorry , while he exhibits his admirable work ethics in the face of temptation , to just get the job done , to put food on the table for his family , and teaching his sons as well that it's not the size , calibre or speed of the gun that matters , but principles . 3 : 10 to Yuma deserves to be watched on the big screen , and given limited screenings and the crowding of movies this month , do make time for it . It's a perfect balance for those looking for mean gunfights , and powerful drama , and this remake delivers it all where it should matter - adopting the best bits in the original , and plugging the gaps when those portions falter . Highly recommended , even if you're not a fan of the Western genre !
A Nutshell Review : In Good Company	It is a challenge to thoroughly explore this drama . It's an excellent film , which deals with many contemporary themes , with great character development brought out by a superb cast with chemistry . Whilst some might view this film through romantic lenses , I'd prefer to view this film differently , from another angle , probably because I'm a salaried man myself , and at times , see myself in one of the characters now ( no prizes for guessing who ) . This film's premise is steeped in the realities of today's business world of mergers and acquisitions , layoffs associated , of office politics and relationships , and of corporate jungle survival . Dennis Quaid plays a Dan , a senior sales manager in his 50s , juggling life with adolescent teenage daughters ( the emphasis being Scarlett Johansson's Alex ) and his wife , who's expecting their newborn baby , and with his job , when his company has just been bought over and merged into a conglomerate . Suddenly his career is filled with uncertainty , as everyone in the company is worried over whether they'd still have their jobs once the dust settles , with new management being put in place - and this means Dan is no longer the main man , but the " wingman " . As with businesses these days , the emphasis is always on revenue , sales numbers , and the bottom line . We are shown , through the cast members , the pain of being laid off . It never is easy being a manager , and the dread when you'd have to ask members of your team , the team you picked and groomed , to leave . Some see it coming , some take it in their stride , others just can't . And that's the job of Dan's new manager Carter Duryea ( played by fresh faced Topher Grace ) , who's half Dan's age , tasked with increasing sales revenue , and trimming the bottom line . The film is also about relationships , and relationships here are multi-fold . Dan and Carter do not hit it off on the right note , basically because Carter just waltzes right into Dan's job , even though he lacks the experience in the industry , but he's young , energetic , and a proved go-getter . Dan feels threatened - it's understandable , especially when you have to put food on the table , put your kids to University , and going to have a new addition to the family . You have mortgage to pay for , and I think many salaried men will identify immediately with the situation at hand . Carter knows he's a threat to Dan , but initially for his own selfish reasons , he keeps Dan by his side ( he needed someone with experience to teach him the ropes ) , defying upper management preference to lay Dan off because of his fat salary , thus he lays off Dan's team members . One of the more poignant moment in the film , the most realistic I think , is when faced with the reality of survival , of You or the Other Man , what choice would you make ? But slowly and steadily , a mentor-mentee relationship forms between the two , until Carter falls for Dan's daughter Alex . Although their romance takes a backseat to the relationship between Dan and Carter , whatever romance is shown on screen is sweet - their first dates , their long walks , their worry of letting Dan discover their secret . But there is also doubt if it'll work out - Alex wants to concentrate on school , and is worried that Carter is on a rebound after his divorce . Carter , on the other hand , we question his intentions , whether he just wants someone to fill his loneliness , or if he's really in love with Alex . This film is also about the importance of family , and the lack thereof . We see Dan with his very normal functional family - strong relationships and love amongst everyone . Which Carter envies . We see Carter's broken marriage , his unsupportive and adulterous wife whom he divorces , a mention of his parents who separated , and of his loneliness , which resulted in burning weekends at the office , and inviting himself over to Dan's home for dinner , just to beat being alone . He's a modern day poor little rich kid , and I identify with him on the loneliness bit . Sometimes . the film pokes fun at corporate values , mission statements , themes of synergy , and showcases the office balls-carrier . A good reminder is brought out in - in today's world , the only constant is change , so break down your arrogance , as you'll never know what the next merger or acquisition will bring . One day you're at the top , the next you might be out . Peppered throughout are contemporary folk songs , which just seem to evoke the right emotions in you , at the right time it's played . Making contributions are Peter Gabriel's Solsbury Hill and singer of the moment Damien Rice's Cannonball . Dennis Quaid is one of my favourite character actors , though I must add that this is the first movie I've seen him in since " Frequency " . His Dan brings about the everyday man whom I can probably identify with , when I'm 50 . Topher Grace shines with his role of Carter , the inexperience of youth being thrusted into the limelight and given heavy responsibilities . He tries to impress his new team with his can-do attitude , his enthusiasm for his job , but scores zero on his personal life ( hmm . . kinda like me , now ) . Heck he even crashes his new Porsche when he leaves the showroom ! And Scarlett Johansson is an angel - showing vulnerability as a coming of age teenager who has to decide whether to pursue her love for Carter , or to realize the sacrifices her dad made to put her in varsity , and to pursue her studies . This show has a little something for everyone , and I'm sure you'll find that the contemporary themes do ring a familiar bell in your life . My review above might seem a little heavy , but hey , I'm over-analysing , so no worries , go catch this one !
A Nutshell Review : Michael Clayton	I can't recall the last time I watched a satisfying lawyer related movie , and it brings me back to the time in the 90s where the John Grisham novels were being rushed to be made into films , starting with The Firm , and somehow stopping abruptly after the release of The Runaway Jury . While the Grisham novels always have a top lawyer with just morals , this one has almost everyone being a shady lawyer battling against one another's wits and wills . Michael Clayton is a lawyer movie , of the different kind . There's no courtroom debate with your objections , your sustains and a triggerhappy-with-a-hammer judge , but here we see more of the workings behind the scenes , set in a fictional top law firm Kenner , Bach & Ledeen , which has lawyers for hire to take on cases for clients who are willing to dish out top money for top brains . George Clooney plays the titular character , whom many bill as the Miracle Worker . That's the fanciful title for the job , which like others whom one will describe as picking up the pieces , in short , the janitor role in doing some of the dirty work to give the clients a leg up in litigation . And that in itself is the draw of the movie . It doesn't shy away from making all lawyers look like greedy money grabbing scoundrels , though it does have a sense of honour amongst thieves as exuded by the Michael Clayton character . In fact , here's possibly one of the most interesting anti-heroes ( if I may call him that ) who uses his connections and through the pulling of the right strings , get things done , at whatever the cost , with whatever the measures and options available . You mess up , he comes in to clean it up , and being the enigma he is in the circle , a client can't help but to feel confident that his troubles are well taken care of , and well worth the dollars paid for . What makes the entire plot compelling , are the extremely well crafted characters . It's a good welcome to see Tilda Swinton back on the big screen after her outing some 2 years ago with The Lion The Witch and The Wardrobe , and here she plays the legal counsel of a corporation U-North , who just got promoted into the hottest seat , and is desperate in using all means necessary to hold onto her position of power , which means settling a million dollar class action suit that impacts her bonus and standing . As with large firms , her U-North outsources the dirty work , for the guarantee of a scapegoat should something go wrong , to their vendor Kenner , Bach & Ledeen , and the long drawn case being led by the law firm's top gun Arthur Edens , played by the wonderful Tom Wilkinson , who goes berserk one day . Tom Wilkinson has now gone into my books as one of my favourite character actors . His voice resonates , and his appearance lends certain gravitas to the picture . Here , he plays a scumbag lawyer ( ok , so I associate every lawyer here as a scumbag ) who has woken up to his senses ( or succumbed to madness ? ) , and now is holding onto dangerously incriminating smoking gun type evidence . I always thought how one could survive in a profession that requires you to constantly lie , to turn black into white and vice versa , basically to demean , probably character assassinate opponents and destroy their moral credibility . Takes a lot , doesn't it ? And I wonder too how they sleep at night , knowing that they have perverted justice through their cunningness . Guess it's just a job . shrugBut an interesting " character " here , is the Corporation , represented by the law firm . As with all corporate entities , it's transfixed on its bottomline , market share , revenue and profits , so naturally it becomes beholden to its rich clients . If the client wants black to be called white , sure , that's what they'll do to maintain the big fish account , afraid that the client might take their business elsewhere . So morally bankrupt lawyers , do they exist ? Michael Clayton is excellent , for the gripping plot that leaves you guessing what next , for its pace , and best of all , the awesome rapid fire dialogue . It's a talkie movie through and through , without subtitles too , and that probably explained why some audience walked out of the movie midway , as they might have thought that Clooney was either wearing a costume , or performing quick wardrobe changes ala his Danny Ocean , but here , it's sombre shirt , tie and overcoat almost all the way . And it's not just a one-track movie , with minor subplots involving Clayton's personal life of a broken family , debt and a business that went the wrong way , that get tied in perfectly into the main track . That said , this movie remains highly recommended , for those patience enough to experience all the curve balls being thrown at you every step of the way , through the narrative's four days leading to a satisfying wrap . Heavy reliance on Clooney's charisma to carry the movie through , and peppered with excellent supporting acts all around . Don't miss this !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) My Neighbor Totoro ( 1988 )	I have never sat through a complete Hayao Miyazaki animated movie despite all the good vibes , reviews , recommendations I got from friends . Actually I have Spirited Away on DVD just waiting to be watched , but for some reason it still sits on my desk amongst others . Well , a good friend from up north passed me THREE Miyazaki DVDs , and given I'm going to where he is tomorrow visiting someone who mentioned during a visit to the previous movie set , how the scene was reminiscent of My Neighbor Totoro , I thought I'll pop that DVD and give it a watch . I was blown away . This IS animation , with a story suitable for kids to understand , and for adults to get a kick out of given its fantastical pieces . I shan't spoil the movie by spelling out the storyline , but suffice to say it centers very simply on a family , the father a professor who has recently uprooted his family of two girls , Satsuki and Mai , to the countryside , to provide a healthier environment for their ailing mom , currently in the hospital , to recuperate in . Thus begins the children's adventures in the country , with its lush greenery , and of course , with their new found friend , a giant ghibil known as Totoro , with seemingly magical powers of flight and fantasy . And it is in its simplicity where its beauty shines through . It is always said that children can see things that adults don't , and hence , there's a constant question as to whether Totoro is real , or not , and if so , how its interactions with the kids are possible . It's not just Totoro itself which is out of this world , but I totally like that grinning cat-bus . This is the kind of animated movie that our local animation production houses should be looking at . First and foremost , the story . While it doesn't contain huge battle sequences , complex or multiple characters for the sake of stuffing the movie , it goes to show that the story matters , in its ability to touch and resonate with audiences young and old ( while the young ones go to the cinemas , don't forget the adults have to bring them too , and somehow you have to entertain them as well without being too complex for the little ones to understand ) . The character designs are also kept simple , but nonetheless effective . The animation here is top notch despite it being 2D , as are the cast who voiced the characters . The acid test here is whether the movie can stand the test of time , and watching it close to 20 years after it was made , the answer is a resounding yes , it passed with flying colours . There are plenty of moments where you go " so cute ! " without it being saccharine , or trying too hard , and that is indeed remarkable . Characterization is superb , especially Mai , whom I think everyone who has a kid sister , would be able to relate to . That's how realistic I thought she was ! Everything in this movie works well together , like a fine orchestra performing its pieces with precision yet with lots of heart . I do feel compelled to pop in and watch all the other Hayao Miyazaki DVDs I have in my collection , but I have to travel tomorrow and be away the next few days . You can be sure however , I will be back and complete watching them all real soon ! I like Tonari no Totoro , certainly one of the best movies I've seen !
A Nutshell Review : Claustrophobia	Written and directed by Ivy Ho , best known for her sensitive story in Comrades , Almost a Love Story , I felt that Claustrophobia showed similar expertise in its treatment of the mundane and often rote life of office workers caught up in the day to day drudgery of deadlines and uncertainties in this era of mergers and acquisitions . Lensed by cinematographer Mark Lee , this is beautifully filmed and brings out the often cramped spaces that the characters find themselves in , figuratively as well . The film opens with a long 20 minute scene in a car as it goes around Hong Kong , where the department manager Tom ( Ekin Cheng ) sends his team of 4 home after a late night in the office . And it is here in this tiny space of a car cabin that you can read plenty of office colleague dynamics that any working adult would immediately identify with . Veteran Felix Lok as Karl has some of the best lines as the individual who is a " know it all " given his seniority amongst the team , and Karena Lam's Pearl often has something troubling that maintains hidden beneath her calm exterior . John and Jewel round up the group as the youngest , most passionate and of course , most impetuous amongst the group , being fuel for and to propagate stories from the grapevine . Unravelling itself backwards , the narrative teases with short succinct scenes from gossips to suspicion of hanky panky , but never to show its hand fully . Rationale for such scenes , and character behaviour at current point in time do get touched upon in later parts , which is chronologically earlier . Much is still left unsaid though as the continuity in reverse order do not get embroiled in the nitty gritties , but provides the canvas and the frame on which you can draw your own conclusions from . There are no big sequences per say , as this is a powerful conversational movie . Attention is to be paid to the candid and genuinely impactive dialogue , especially when you discover hidden meanings and sarcasms when lines are read in-between . There is much identifiable dialogue for anyone who has worked a desk job before , as well as with the scenes of quirks from working in close proximity cubicles in the office . You'll probably be left in awe as if you're seeing a snapshot of an office worker's life through a two-way mirror , with knowledge of hindsight , as the movie captures the concerns of the working class in such a deceptively simple manner . If you're led to believe that Ekin Cheng's Tom and Karena Lam's Pearl would amount to something , then you might just have to leave it to your imagination to wander a bit , since it's never explicit shown or addressed on screen . Rather , the notion of office romance with workers dating co-workers just serves as a fleeting background with both sides of the equation provided , such as how it affects workers productivity , or how it actually helps to increase morale of the person ( s ) involved . Minor characters do pepper the landscape as well , in the form of Eric Tsang as Dr Chiu , whom I thought had some of the more interesting lines with Karena Lam as they share a wonderfully poignant scene with regards to love lost , and Andy Hui who guests stars as a cab driver . Well acted despite having the characters restraining themselves to knowing glances and something that is more than meets the eye , Claustrophobia would easily be amongst my favourites from the festival , and is highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Millennium Actress ( DVD )	Having watched Satoshi Kon's Paprika and Tokyo Godfathers , it's a no brainer that I would jump at the chance to watch Millennium Actress . And I wasn't disappointed , though if I would rate this movie amongst the others I've seen , then my preference will be in reverse chronological order , not that Millennium Actress is no good , but you do see the scaling of new heights in the newer works . I'm quite amazed at how a single theme ( at least to me ) managed to weave itself into a compelling story , and one which paid homage to the history of Japan , and to Japanese films . The actress in the title refers to Chiyoko Fujiwara ( voiced by three different actresses - Miyoko Shoji , Mami Koyama and Fumiko Orikasa ) , and chronicles the story of her career . As such , we get to see her in various characters and costumes , in different genres set in different eras , like the Samurai films , science fiction , romance dramas , and even monster movies . Now a senior citizen who has since retired from the limelight , she's being tracked down for an interview by Genya Tachibana ( Shozo Izuka ) and his cameraman Ida Kyoji ( Masaya Onosaka ) , as she's the icon for a movie studio which is being torn down . But there's more to Genya's intentions of just speaking to her , and that secret in which he has will form the basic crux of the story . To some , it might be groundhog day narrative style as events get repeated , although in different reel eras . It's about chasing after a loved one , one who has disappeared , and about your relentless pursuit , never to give up for that glimmer of hope , for that pot of gold at the end of the rainbow . In many aspects , there's a lot of reel life imitating real , and the presentation style is definitely a notch in the direction of class , having interpolate Genya and Ida into the memories of Chiyoko as they learn first hand the events that she encounters , and relive those memories in the form of the movies she had starred in . In this manner of skillfully manipulating images and colour , the movie becomes layered in multiple fashion , and is quite innovative , rather than telling the story in a flat out chronological style . The story nevertheless remains immensely touching , and bittersweet as well , particularly when a key secret is revealed , and you find yourself having to hold back that tear from coming out of your eye , especially when you have experienced a similar , relentless chase for something that you do not know what the outcome is . As always , the movie is richly animated with deep background details that you do not keep your eyes off the screen , and definitely deserves multiple re-watchings . Definitely highly recommended .
A Nutshell Review : Memoirs of a Geisha	It's been a long wait for the movie to come to our shores , and I'd tell you it's all well worth it . Having touted many directors ' involvement with this project ( like Steven Spielberg , who's now producer ) , Rob Marshall finally got chosen to helm Arthur Golden's bestseller . And having an all recognizable Asian cast to shoulder this Hollywood production , is an achievement in itself in my opinion . To the detractors who were up in arms over the casting of non-Japanese actresses as the leads , what's up with you ? Sure they're not natives from the land of the rising sun , but bear in mind this is a Hollywood production , and it's all about the business too . Having actresses that the West are not familiar with , is like taking too huge a gamble . So we have Zhang Ziyi as the protagonist , whom a number would be familiar after her turn out in the caper Rush Hour 2 , as with Michelle Yeoh with her stint as a Bond girl in Tomorrow Never Dies . Gong Li would be familiar to those in the art house circuit with Wong Kar Wai's 2046 making its rounds . We do have Japanese in the movie , though mainly the male leads like Ken Watanabe ( after a dismal appearance in summer blockbuster Batman Begins ) and Cary-Hiroyuki " Mortal Kombat " Tagawa . And it's indeed commendable effort from the actresses fronting the movie , having to learn and be convincing in the age old culture of the Geishas . There's another camp who're lobbying that the film is not accurate . Hello , this is a movie , based on a fictional novel . You want accuracy , go watch a documentary or something . Perhaps the only thing I found peculiar was the addition of the English subtitles , as if the Asians cannot speak properly and audiences need help to decipher their accented English ? Zhang Ziyi plays Chiyo / Sayuri , the daughter of a fisherman who got sold away as a young girl to a Geisha house . It's the usual rags-to-fame storyline , where rookie gets bullied , endures hardship , and one day , with a bit of luck , gets the opportunity to become one of the most famous in their profession of choice . And indeed the strength lay in Ziyi Zhang's competence in pulling off this coup , acting opposite 2 other accomplished actresses . Gong Li plays Hatsumomo , a famous Geisha in her time , by with a wild , arrogant streak in her . She feels threatened by the arrival of the young girl Chiyo , and goes all out to frame and make life difficult for her . From the start , you know that these two characters have hatred running through their veins . It's interesting to see Ziyi and Li pair up - 2046 doesn't count as they didn't share scenes together . Both were once director's Zhang Yimou's muses , with Ziyi touted as the new Gong Li when she emerged from the scene . They do share some similar facial features , and it's somewhat strangely satisfying watching their cat-fights on screen , as if it's a wicked tale of Celebrity Deathmatch . Michelle Yeoh plays Mameha , another famous Geisha in her time , and here , she takes on a more mature role , developing a mentor-protégé relationship with Chiyo / Sayuri . Mameha teaches and refines Chiyo , and orchestrates her , if I may use the word , career of Sayuri . From the onset , Mameha has big plans for Sayuri , and we see the politicking side of the world of the Geisha , of becoming famous , of crafting a reputation , and the deft plotting that one must adept to in order to survive in the dog-eat-dog business world . Michelle and Ziyi paired off in Lee Ang's Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon as adversaries , and probably had memorable scenes together when fighting off each other in the rooftop and teahouse battles . Here , they go to the other side of the spectrum in becoming " sisters " as they coordinate to outwit , outplay and outlast Hatsumomo . The most interesting would probably be the second act where we witness the meteoric rise of Sayuri . We are introduced proper into the complex Geisha life of rules and protocols , accompanied by the brilliant score of John Williams ' and with Yo-Yo Ma on the cellos . The beautiful costumes and rich sets also become testament that the filmmakers spare no effort in bringing Kyoto , and the world of the Geisha , to life . Perhaps the third act of the film , set after World War II , was the weakest of the three , as it seemed rushed to achieve closure for the romance between Sayuri and the Chairman ( Ken Watanabe ) . It's a love that cannot be expressed freely , although one which had started from an infatuation , from respect , and became an obsessive fuel to become the best . With face and reputation at stake , it's truthfully sad that this is no period Pretty Woman . Perhaps the only uplifting moment in the third act , is the unexpected twist of betrayal , that you'll never see that patient stab in the back until it is too late . It's a beautifully complex movie , and I'm amazed by how much can be weaved into what is seemingly a straightforward plot . This movie might give non-readers an excuse to pick up the book to learn more and dwell deeper into the psyche of the characters . But first , be enthralled by the movie , a must-watch this January .
A Nutshell Review : Cairo Station	I believe Cairo Station marks my very first experience in watching an Egyptian movie ( those television soap operas over the RTM channels when I was younger , don't exactly count ) . And having the opportunity to watch one made by an acclaimed Egyptian filmmaker , was nothing less than a bonus . What provided the icing on the cake , was that it was shown in 35mm print , and that is precisely the attraction of the World Cinema Series . I was under the uninformed impression that older , black and white movies , will likely to be paced too slow for my liking , or have stories that are quite bland by today's standards . I was so wrong , and Cairo Station absolutely threw those notions out of my mental window the minute I experienced the first few minutes of it . It has an extremely strong story , sophisticated in that it managed to span multiple threads and had ensemble characters , having so much paced so nicely within its 74 minute runtime , and having them all come together neatly for the finale . Having the events take place within a single day , it centers around 3 lead characters - Kenawi the newpaper boy ( played by the director himself ) , who walks with a limp and gets discriminate against by the working folks at the train station ( hence the English title ) , Hanuma the sultry , sexy soft drink seller ( played by Hind Rostrom ) and her beau Abu Sri ( Farid Shawqi ) , a porter at the station who's galvanizing his fellow workers to form a union to fight for better wages and welfare . There you have the female lead in a familiar seductress role , an anti-hero , and the hero himself , caught in a love triangle , which starts to turn Kenawi's jealousy and having his love spurned , into a dangerous obsession . Sounds like a Hitchcock-ian thriller ? You bet ! It's a dark movie indeed , one which explores the trappings of a misguided soul and his fetish and fantasies of beautiful pin up models , and because of his inability to express himself properly , gets frustrated and even with his relatively low IQ , starts to scheme to get his desires met . But it's not always all about Kenawi , as having the premise set in one of the busiest train stations , it allows for a number of avenues to introduce simple side stories to enrich the main narrative - every anonymous face in the station , definitely has a story to tell . And what exactly was in the film that had made audiences back then upset ? Well , I could offer a few suggestions , but by today's standards , it has seemed that it's already quite common , be it the water soaked clothing that accentuates a woman's curves , or a folio consisting of various scantily clad pin up models , or the many cleavage bearing shots , or perhaps some dancing and flirting amongst a train full of man , giving them that seductive wink ? One wonders , but as with most situations , anyone seemed to have been crossing the boundaries , pushing the envelopes , or revolutionizing the way stories are told , would have met with either accolades for doing so , or unfortunate condemnation like what this film received during its very first screening . But on hindsight , as always , this movie is nothing short of being remarkable . And having already watched it , I will be watching it again when the film screens once more to the general public on October 5th . Mark your calendars , and experience a world class production that has withstood the test of time - 50 years and counting , is no mean feat !
A Nutshell Review : The Professor and his Beloved Equation	This is a very beautiful movie . If Mathematics was never your choice subject in school , with the way the subject is presented in this movie , I'm sure it'll win some new fans over . The last time I can remember where Maths was used as a central plot device was in Ron Howard's A Beautiful Mind , but here , it gains a lot more mileage than that Hollywood movie . I enjoyed the method in which Maths was written into the script , into the characters , and given a life of its own . It revived interest in things like perfect numbers , prime numbers , pi , the imaginary number , and Euler's famous equation . Even if you're clueless about the concepts of these terms , the movie will succinctly introduce them in a highly enjoyable manner . I'm actually quite in awe how complex terms can be weaved so simply into the entire narrative , and made it all work together so well . Borrowing a similar plot device to Memento , a Maths professor suffers from current memory loss , and can only remember events up until his accident . Everything else that is current lasts only 80 minutes , which is why he relies on little notes and his blackboards to remind himself of important current information each time he comes back to square one . A housekeeper is hired to look after him , and despite the trying times and unique circumstances , both of them manage to strike a deep friendship , through the help of mathematics - one who inspires , and the other who admires . The friendship develops further as the housekeeper's 10 year old son , nicknamed by the Professor " Root " for his square head , comes into the picture , and three of their lives become intertwined . There are many touching moments in the movie , and almost everything revolved around mathematics , food , and even baseball ! But you'd come to understand that the movie goes beyond that , and clearly the message is in the philosophy of maths itself , using concepts and applying it to real life , to living life . As such , it made the mathematical concepts introduced here quite accessible and easy to understand . The formation of friendships is core to the story , and the antagonist is none other than a jealous sister-in-law trying to break up what seemed to be going good for everyone involved . I sort of paralleled it to real life , in a not-too-recent episode which I and a few friends personally encountered , and the subsequent treatment we suffered . It makes you wonder how sometimes , even though with honest and sincere intentions , and out of the earnestness in valuing a friendship , you're demonized . It's quite uncanny , but all 3 characters in the professor , the housekeeper and her son are all quite lovable , both in character and in presentation . The cinematography is brilliant too , bringing out the best in the landscapes of the town that they live in , in a picturesque like fashion . I liked the simplicity of the movie , and the feel good factor that exudes from it . It's very beautiful and poetic to watch , given its even and comfortable pace , and it's definitely one of my favourite movies of the year , and my choice as the best film during this festival ! The last time I had such a feeling watching a movie was last year's Be With You ( not to be confused with Eric Khoo's Be With Me ) . This is a must-watch if you have the opportunity !
A Nutshell Review : Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith	To all the fans out there , it is time to rejoice . George Lucas has delivered in Revenge of the Sith . In my list of favourite Star Wars movie , it ranks up there with Empire Strikes Back in its emotional level , and action sequences . It's natural that this review contains no spoilers , as most of you would already know of the plot , and of the ending , since it leads to A New Hope , and given the countless slew of marketing techniques used to promote this movie . But the question is , what actually pushes Anakin Skywalker to the Dark Side . And this is the crux of the movie - if the delivery or narrative is poor and unconvincing , then this movie will sink . Fortunately , Revenge cuts to the chase , and to the point , elaborating without being boring , pacing kept consistent with breathtaking action in between serious dialogue . The best scenes in this movie is however , not the action . They are each time Supreme Chancellor Palpatine and Anakin Skywalker share a scene . After all , this movie is about the Sith , and every time these two are together , there is an ominous sign hanging that Anakin gets closer to the Dark Side , waiting for the inevitable to happen . If you're with Palpatine , I'd bet you will be smittened by his subtle sweet talk of power . George has written all these scenes well , and you really feel the seduction . But what really hit the spot was Hayden Christensen's performance . He brought out fear in Padme's death in his nightmares ( which was actually a self fulfilling prophecy ) , arrogance of his knowing his Jedi powers being improved and unmatched , confusion of his dilemma of being in a corner , torn between the Jedi Order he belongs to and his confidante Palpatine . You feel Anakin's sadness and loss each time he makes a mistake when doing evil deeds - you feel his tears , every time he is torn in a world of political plotting , of being an unwilling double agent . Which makes me ponder , being a child prodigy Anakin Skywalker is , it is without proper supervision that he is being seduced by false promises of unlimited Dark power . Yoda gets sent off for a mission , so does Obiwan , leaving Mace Windu ( who doesn't like Anakin , and vice versa ) looking after him . It is precisely this opportunity that Palpatine gets closer and pushes Anakin over the edge . In a way , the Jedi's arrogance ( or probably Mace's ) caused their downfall , and Anakin's love for Padme being the fuel that Palpatine openly exploits . The Jedi Massacre , though short , is extremely painful to watch . You see the Jedis trying their utmost to survive in their respective war zones , yet being murdered in cold blood by hordes of " friendly fire " - Order 66 . It is a sense of great loss and pity , and you'll be holding your breath to see how Yoda survives . And yes , the lightsabre battles - this film sees the most duels in the series . Obi-wan and Anakin vs Count Dooku , Obi-wan vs General Grievious , Mace Windu vs Palpatine , Yoda vs Palpatine , and finally , Obi-wan vs Anakin . Amongst them , I would rank Obi-wan vs General Grievious the weakest of them all , despite the boast that Grievious can weld 4 sabres and fight with them simultaneously . The ones which packs a punch , are Mace vs Palpatine - the battle between the Jedi's best in the lightsabre swordsmanship , and the power of the Dark Side , Yoda vs Palpatine - masters of the Light and Dark side dueling , with one of them admitting failure and loss , and finally , the battle amongst brothers , Obi-wan vs Anakin . I like this one the most , as the speed and red fiery environment they do battle in , really bring out the blue glow of their lightsabres as they duke it out in fantastic speed . The only time when sabres of the same colour clash , and the best . Fan favourites like R2D2 ( don't we love this droid ! ) and even Chewbacca make appearances . Jar Jar Binks too , but without dialogue . C3PO however , got limited screen time . My only gripe , if any , will be Padme being reduced to Tears - from the tough cookie she is in the prequels , probably being an expectant mother has mellowed her a lot , and she is always so sad when she comes on screen . John Williams , there seems to be no wrong he can do with his score , as his Battle of the Heroes track highlights the fight between good and evil , between the surviving Jedis and the emergence of Sith power . I would be watching this movie again , to take in the fantastic seduction scenes of the Dark Side , the sense of loss , helplessness and confusion , and the agony of betrayal from those whom you trust . Powerful themes brought out in a tribute finale to the entire series , a fitting film that bridges the past films to the Original Trilogy loved by many . May the Force be with you .
A Nutshell Review : Jodhaa Akbar	Today marks the premiere of Jodhaa Akbar here and the reasons for wanting to watch this film are simple - the pairing of Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan , director Ashutosh Gowariker , and musician A . R . Rahman . It's simply an irresistible combination , one that everyone in the cinema hall would attest to , given the full house , and the full house in the next screening . Jodhaa Akbar is set in the 16th century , which tells of an arranged marriage for strategic alliance purposes that blossomed into true love between a Mughal emperor , Jalaluddin Mohammad ( Hrithik Roshan ) and a Rajput princess Jodha ( Aishwarya Rai Bachchan ) . In fact , as how most historical epics would go , such as the likes of Alexander or peer Bollywood film Asoka ( starring Shah Rukh Khan ) , while efforts are placed into extensive research to try and stay as authentic as possible , there still are various interpretations to characters , some of whom will be taken to task ( like Oliver Stone's vision of Colin Farrell as Alexander the Great ) by audiences . The contention here is the story behind Jodha , and the various names she goes by with different retellings , and that is put up front even before the opening credits start to roll . Director Gowariker's pedigree with his successful epics like Lagaan and Swades puts him in good stead as he tackles this love story on multiple fronts . In fact , as he puts it , it's a story about the meeting of two cultures and two religions , so basically , what's in a name ? Sometimes I wonder about similarities with the formation of big countries as we know it today , with China undergoing multiple civil styled wars in bids by conquerors to unite it , and with India , it seems that it's no different . We get to see the multitudes of ethnic groups , each with their unique practices which we were given glimpses on , thanks to the superb art direction and wonderful , authentic sets recreated . Jalaluddin Mohammad hails from the Mughals , and is a Muslim , who from young is told by various quarters what to do , and how to lead his life as Emperor of Hindustan . He gains a reputation on the battlefield , which could parallel those in Hollywood in terms of sheer scale and grandeur , even utilizing hordes of marauding elephants and settled into some icky territory when elephants rampage and stomp on soldiers . Blood aside , we see Jalaluddin slowly become a man of his own , and in a bid to forge a strategic alliance , he's offered the hand of Jodha Bai . However , this arranged marriage was doomed a failure from all quarters , because of the difference in religion ( she's a Hindu ) and culture . Furthermore , the reluctant Jodha makes it all the more difficult by asking for 2 conditions , that she be allowed to practice her religion , and to build a shrine in their bridal home . He agrees . And in today's context , I would say this act of proposition and acceptance would also raise some eyebrows sky high . But herein likes the key message that gets drummed through the movie - why can't we love despite our differences ? Why can't we enjoy the diversity that each religion or culture bring , instead of baying for blood and inciting hatred ? Jodhaa Akbar has its message of ( religious ) tolerance worn very prominently on its sleeve . It's quite radical and forward thinking in Jalaluddin's character , and we feel for the couple as they go journey from strangers to soul mates overcoming the various challenges posed from the outside , and between themselves as they try hard to break the thick ice . But it's not all lovey-dovey in turmoil times like theirs , where politicking takes place from the macro with the constant threat of war and the running of a country , to the micro where internal jealousies and the defending of personal turf rear their ugly head , which kind of reminisce the many petty backstabbings found behind closed royalty doors , with Jalaluddin's nanny Maham Anga ( Ila Arun ) proving to be the attempted spoiler and go between in the marriage . And to leaders out there , there's a scene which while it's something that's not new , is always apt to remind them not to sit on their ivory towers , but to walk the ground and hear the grumbling first hand , as nothing beats ground level intelligence . In most parts , Jodhaa Akbar had reminded me of Cecil B DeMille's historical productions , with its beautiful sets , costumes , great acting , and intense battle sequences . There are a couple of nice action set pieces ranging from full scale war with the clashing of two opposing sides ( the elephants were a great bonus , trust me ) , to a duel which turns out to be a courtship ritual , something not new since both Hrithik and Aishwarya challenged each other before ( though on the basketball court ) , with the latter quite well versed in swordplay given her earlier role in The Last Legion , and one featuring what I thought took a leaf out of the battle between Hector and Achilles in Troy . Of course , no Bollywood movie will be without music and dance , and here , it's done quite tastefully as you don't expect sudden outbursts into song . The music by A . R . Rahman is top notch as usual , and dances here happen naturally as part of the narrative flow , with the first song coming out only just before the hour mark . Needless to say I found myself tapping my feet to almost all of them . There are a numerous plus points in this blockbuster , and if I'm telling you I'm getting the DVD when it's released , I'm already giving this a vote of confidence that it's a contender to make it to my top 10 movies of the year . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Red Cliff	A friend of mine revealed to me that John Woo acknowledged parallels between characters in his movies , and characters from the Three Kingdom era , and that General Zhao Yun was one of Woo's personal favourites . This admiration for General Zhao's qualities cannot be more obvious when it is he who opens the first battle proper , with a very familiar character episode involving the rescue of the infant son ( and future lord ) of his master Liu Bei , thereby sealing his reputation of valor , earning admiration even from enemy Cao Cao . Fans of Liu Bei's camp will undoubtedly cheer at the appearances of his sworn brothers General Guan Yu ( who is worshiped as a Deity until this very day , and remains one of my favourite characters besides Zhao Yun ) and General Zhang Fei , whose gruffness translates to instant war-ready prowess . While Liu's army is clearly routed in a military loss , it explained the dilemma of Liu's leadership . One which is based on sincerity , a quality which persuaded his chief military strategist and genius all round Zhuge Liang ( Takeshi Kaneshiro ) to join his cause , but one which lacked military strength in numbers , despite having some of the best generals of the time under his leadership . Which of course Cao Cao admires and probably is envious about , given his superior strength in numbers came from surrendering armies , whose loyalty remains questionable , and of course with individual generals who can't surpass the abilities of those from Liu . Playing the king like a puppet and having him issue a decree for permission to pursue Liu Bei who has fled southwards , he sets his sights also on warlord Sun Quan , for a more personal reason akin to the story of Helen of Troy . Zhuge Liang , knowing their current weakness , seeks an alliance between the armies of Liu and Sun Quan , and this forms most of the first half , where he had to play envoy to cajole and persuade , especially in convincing Sun Quan's most trusted adviser Zhou Yu ( Tony Leung ) that war is inevitable and they should form a win-win partnership . And here's where great minds think alike , and watching both Zhou Yu and Zhuge Liang do a friendly pit against each other is nothing short of amazing , where so little says so much . It helps of course that both Tony Leung and Takeshi Kaneshiro have been paired up as leading men on screen before , in Wong Kar-wai's Chungking Express and in Andrew Lau and Alan Mak's Confession of Pain too , lending some much established and credible chemistry as men who share admiration in each other's ability , especially when Zhou Yu seemed to have a fairer balance between fighting skill and intellect . With one side having highly disciplined soldiers with good morale , and the other having renowned generals to be leaders , it doesn't take a genius to realize the advantages gained in fending off a common enemy together . The fight sequences were pure spectacle , with old school wire work combined with technological wizardry to showcase some large scale battle sequences at a macro level , or to highlight the immense naval numbers that Cao Cao brings to battle . Formations and strategies take centerstage in a first major confrontation on land , where one gets to see John Woo's interpretation of Zhuge Liang's " ba-gua " ( 8 stratagems ) strategy , made more entertaining through the continuation of what we have already seen in each general's fighting ability , each given a unique style befitting the characters in folklore , such as Guan Yu and his Guan Dao ( Green Dragon Crescent Blade ) and Zhao Yun ( Hu Jun ) and his spear . There's the usual bellowing cape and slow motion in Woo's signature style , but these were kept to a minimum , as are the pigeons ( though they do make an appearance , but serving some purpose ) . Perhaps it is the success of the fight sequences that had left some lamenting for more , but bear in mind this is just but the first half of the movie , setting things up . The major war sequences of course are left in the second movie which we will get to see come early next year . Like The Matrix Reloaded and Revolutions , expect the next movie to go on an all out assault . I felt that already is a fair balance of drama and action here , especially when this installment has to cover a broad base given numerous characters , which should provide fans ( of Three Kingdoms ) something to cheer about . Chang Chen provides his Sun Quan with enough self-doubt , and in a small story arc has to seek his inner confidence ala King Leonidas in 300 , while model Lin Chiling's much touted debut movie appearance , was limited to just a few scenes of lovey-dovey moments , which unfortunately for audiences in Singapore , her sex scene with Tony Leung got edited out in order for distributors to get a PG rating to put more bums on seats . I had wondered how Tony Leung would have faired as Zhuge Liang instead of Kaneshiro , but felt that the musical chairs casting somehow became a blessing in disguise . Kaneshiro's good looks might have made some doubt his ability to play the smartest man alive during the era , but he did an excellent job in bringing out the humility and self-deprecation of the man whose never flashy nor overconfident of his abilities , and one who swears his talents to his lord Liu Bei . Tony Leung on the other hand brought about a fine balance of brains and brawn to the Zhou Yu character , whom I suspect in Woo's version , would be credited with much success for his part in Red Cliff , rather than the accolades all going to Zhuge Liang . After you see the reliable Tony Leung in this role , you'll know for sure that Chow Yun-Fatt could probably never had brought the kind of gravitas Leung brought to the role . Red Cliff is hands down highly recommended
A Nutshell Review : Iron Man	With a little tinge of shame and regret , my rare dalliances with the Iron Man character stemmed from a few one off comic books , as well as occasions during the teenage years of spending time in the arcade with those Marvel games , where Iron Man was one of my preferred characters because it came together with his incredible arsenal of weapons from repulsor beams to this gigantic cannon which accompanied the execution of some complex combo moves . There's something sexy about the red and gold suit of armour , and having an array of weapons at the disposal of a player , makes perfect sense for variety in dispatching your enemies . This may irk the fervent fans of Iron Man , but face it , the superhero belonged to Tier B where superheroes are concerned , languishing behind easily recognizable peers who already have movie after movie being made . But thanks to the advancement in digital technology , bringing Iron Man to life no longer consisted of the prospect and worrying thought of having a man running about in a rubber suit passing it off as metal , the way Ultraman would have been done , complete with mechanical clicks and whirrs as sound effects to try and fool the visual sensory . Here , we have a very detailed rendering of the entire design from scratch to final modification , and we're in at every step of the way , with many cheeky and sometimes a tad implausible scenes just for cheap laughs thrown in . I thought Iron Man the story worked because of stark ( pardon the pun ) similarities with Batman Begins , also an origin story which took its time to dwell on the man behind the suit , nevermind at the sacrifice of having less action sequences , or by not giving the fans what they want through the showcase of more than the basic powers . Advanced capabilities can always find room in the sequel , and as the first movie used to establish its characters , I felt that it succeeded , given too that it had a cast of capables ( just like Batman Begins had ) to pull the movie through without resorting to over the top and campy performances , starting of course with the lead in Robert Downey Jr . In a nutshell , Downey is Tony Stark through and through . His affinity for the character shines , and no doubt it bore some parallels between his own personal , and Stark's life in the narrative future when he hits the bottle . He was allowed to become a Two-Face of sorts , on one hand being and later acting out his flamboyance self whose mission in life was the continuation of his father's legacy of Stark Industries , a weapons conglomerate , versus his personal mission in ridding his own weapons from the hands of the bad guys , now updated to be freedom fighters in the Middle East . The dialogue contained within each scene of Stark's , except perhaps during captivity , is full of one-liners done in double quick time , you probably would think it boiled down to a whole host of natural ad-libbing . But while Starks spends significant amount of time in his unsecured basement building his masterpiece , his human interaction come in the form of faithful secretary Pepper Potts ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) who actually , for the first time I admit , looked really good on screen as Stark's most trusted aide , bringing about some serious spark of sexual tension and chemistry between the two characters of opposite sex , more so than any other comic book movie I have seen . And good friend from the air force Jim Rhodes ( Terrence Howard ) complete the circle of trust who knows of Stark's secret identity , and you'd be keeping your fingers crossed at the toss of a teaser of a certain War Machine appearance should the sequel be out . Who's the main villain in the movie ? It points the finger at Corporations , or at least here , the weapons manufacturers and the shady deals that go through in the name of profit , the sole objective for any corporation's existence . And Jeff Bridges , in a rare villainous role , got to personify that greed and wrestle for absolute power just like the trailer already suggested . While his performance is refreshing as he disappears behind the ball head and bushy beard , you could see his motivation and how the plot would have been developed to introduced the ultimate fodder for Iron Man to duke it out in a , sad to say , ordinary finale which any audience would probably be able to stay a step ahead . As mentioned earlier , there are plenty of similarities with the Dark Knight of Gotham in Christopher Nolan's reboot , but more so because of properties inherent with the likeness between Bruce Wayne and Tony Stark . Both are incredibly wealthy to devote time outside of the day job to pursue their " hobby " , both have to suffer personal tragedies in order to wake up to the cruel world , and in the movie , both fall prey to the corporate raider type , spend time perfecting their suit of war , have assistants they would trust their lives with , and of course save them from impending doom , and a finales set at their facilities . But Iron Man is still a special effects extravaganza offering a thrill ride especially when he goes into battle mode , and without a doubt , Robert Downey Jr probably should be credited for raising the profile of this once Tier-B character , to perhaps becoming more recognizable now , and obviously , expanding the fan base of this weaponry filled suit of metal , which of course , in this origin movie , we were only given a glimpse of its potential . can everyone now spell sequel and clamour for more please ? Iron Man has set the bar for the other upcoming comic book movies to try and surpass this summer season !
A Nutshell Review : ( DVD ) The Corporation ( 2003 )	Corporations are everywhere , providing goods and services that we consume day in day out . We've heard a lot of things about corporations , about their governance , social responsibility , environmental protection or lack thereof , in the news , and it's so part of every day life , can a documentary highlight its evils and stoke the flames in a call to action to make corporations more accountable for their very existence ? The Corporation is a very compelling look at corporations , about how they come about in a free market , subscribing to mantras such as " in devastation there is opportunity " , the levels of protections they have managed to obtain to protect themselves against various liabilities since they are after all , legal entities with rights , and how through their doing of business , actually have plenty more opportunity costs incurred that goes against the benefit of mankind . Of course first and foremost , their objective is to maximize profits for their stockholders ( Economics 101 ) , and it becomes a tussle between stockholders , and the wider , more encompassing stakeholders , which include their workers , consumers , customers and the community . I thought it was interesting enough for the film to have profiled the corporation to be akin to that of a psychopath , and provided enough believable evidence to support their claims . It's a very slickly done documentary , with professionally designed animation , effective talking heads dishing out enough soundbites to make you go " Hmm . . . " , and plenty of distinctly different visuals ( presentation charts , cartoon clips , news reels etc ) to keep you engaged throughout its 145 minutes , which you do not feel at all . It tackles a wide range of topics about the corporation , some arguing for it , most arguing against it . It doesn't set out to explain its stand through shock tactics , but do so with very well-measured delivery and logical arguments with a call to action . But while the filmmakers agree that you cannot expect change overnight , what little things you can do , such as exerting democratic authority over corporations by voting with your dollars , do ultimately go a long way . There are success stories incorporated here , mostly with the help of protests by civil rights groups ( is that why they're deemed dangerous here , since they can become catalyst for radical changes ? ) . Words don't do justice to this documentary . You just got to watch it , and let the barrage of arguments sink in . You might agree with most of the arguments , but wonder how the world would inconceivably be a better place without the corporation-created wants and perceived needs to add spice to our mundane lives . Oh , and the digital female voice narrating portions of the documentary , is oh so sexy !
A Nutshell Review : Sita Sings The Blues	Featured in last year's edition of Animation Nation , I finally got a chance to watch this masterpiece by filmmaker Nina Paley when she released it on the Internet under the Creative Commons License . And it is without a doubt that this piece of animation is well worth every minute of your time , especially when the visuals just arrests your attention from the get go , and has some wonderful music and songs by 1920s jazz singer Annette Hanshaw , who provides the titular Sita with her singing voice . Based on the epic Indian tale of Ramayana , focusing on the love triangle between Rama ( voiced by Debargo Sanyal ) , his virtuous wife Sita ( Nina Paley herself ) , and the adversary in the form of Ravana ( Sanjiv Jhaveri ) who lusts after Sita and kidnaps her , I have gotten a glimpse of this storyline when it got featured in films such as Swades and the more recent Delhi-6 . Essentially the extracts in those film featured how Ravana kidnaps Sita for her beauty , and wanted to make her his wife , only for her to hold out enough for Rama to find them , and to kill Ravana in an ensuing war . The story here expands that tale a lot more , starting with how Rama got banished from his kingdom by his father the King , and together with Sita , roams a forest until her kidnap , their reunion , and how Rama decided to banish her given his incessant suspicion that she may not have been pure , and got violated . It's a sad love story in a way , and this film provided just enough to pique your interest in wanting to read up more . It's quite amazing how Paley herself directed this piece of magic , and adopted various animation styles to tell a story , and a musical , and has a separate tale set in the modern day to parallel that of the epic tale . I am speechless by how wonderful the opening credits got designed , fused perfectly with the song playing in the background . Her choice of the Annette Hanshaw tunes were a wonderful touch that fit the story to a T , and this can only be attributed to some astonishing creativity and innovation that Paley had demonstrated , and I can't help but to want more . The shadow puppet narrators ( Aseem Chhabra , Bhavana Nagulapally and Manish Acharya ) stole the show each time they're on , as they sound just like your good pals who can't wait to give you the lowdown on what they know about this tragic love triangle . They're hilarious and never at any point felt deliberately so , with that very natural feel about the way they want to tell a story . I would have loved to experience this in a big screen theatre setting , but I guess that would not come anytime soon . So the next best alternative was to download the highest resolution version available to watch this astounding piece as well as to admire the striking attention to details that Paley so lovingly and respectfully put into the characters . You would do yourself a favour and watch how Sita Sings the Blues , as it's a definite must-watch in my books !
A Nutshell Review : Gone Shopping	Singaporeans are known for our passion for food , be it either great tasting humble hawker fare , or exquisite fine dining at various swanky restaurants . Food has been featured in a number of our local movies , with yellow flat noodles being the Mee Pok in Mee Pok Man , Chicken Rice in Chicken Rice War , and the ubiquitous coffeeshop locales in almost all of director Jack Neo's movies . The other passion we have is for shopping , no doubt with our most famous road being Orchard Road , for its malls and food of course , and the various generic shopping malls ( with almost the same shops , that each mall seemed xeroxed from the preceding success story ) that have sprung up in various neighbourhood heartland town centers all over the island . It's only a matter of time that a movie like Gone Shopping will find its way to our cinematic screens , with its premise firmly set around our obsession with shopping , which some have said is one of our national pastimes . Writer-director Wee Li Lin , better known for her short films , makes her feature film debut with this movie , and it actually took her years to crystallize her ideas for the film . After all , if you want to incorporate a national pastime , you sure would want to do it right ! But what Li Lin did was a whole lot more . Gone Shopping , through its many characters , leading and supporting , all manage to touch on the psyche of Singapore . Having developed a keen eye in observing people , Li Lin managed to craft intricate characters for Gone Shopping , without the pitfalls of having caricature them into typical stereotypes . The first few minutes were pure genius , adding a subtle tracking of the evolvement of our malls and its impact to our pop culture ( remember the Centrepoint kids ? ) through the eyes of one of the protagonist , Clara ( played by Kym Ng ) , a rich man's tai-tai ( translated by the official website as " wealthy lady of leisure " ) who seem to have everything material , but yearning for a connection that is deep and emotional . And starting with Clara , we get introduced to the various hopes and dreams of the characters in Gone Shopping , which I thought was interesting and intriguing enough to hold you attention , and want to make you find out more as the story unravels . Through three story arcs whose characters rarely interact with one another , they share a common thread , and that is the need to escape from the cold harsh realities of their unsatisfactory life , through , what else , their various periods of stay in malls , where they can enjoy some bliss in their respective fantasies . Clara longs to be loved and run away from the superficiality of " tai-tai friendships " , and bumping into an acquaintance , Valentine Pang ( Adrian Pang ) , a sales person in a departmental store and old school classmate , may just provide that avenue . Aaron Ho ( Aaron Kao ) , a young man stifled in his 9-to-5 job , seeks out friends in the mall , and slowly develops the hots for his best friend's sister Hui Hui ( Magdalene Tan ) , a goth lolita . Renu ( Sonya Nair ) , an 8 year old girl who finds herself abandoned and unloved by her parents , seeking out a new life in the world famous Mustafa Centre , a mall that does not sleep , enjoying the material goods she could possibly never possess , and being caught in a web of intrigue between a conman , and the store's security personnel . Gone Shopping reveals a thick tapestry based on strengths of Li Lin's imaginative mind , and engages the audiences at different levels . Like a shopping mall itself , the movie is full of differen tcomponents that will appeal to different demographics , but yet all coming together to make it a completely satisfying experience . Some scenes were just so cunningly full of wit , that you can't help but to crack up for its sheer brilliance and cheekiness . The actors too , from familiar TV faces past and present , flesh their roles with aplomb , and are a delight to watch . I only rue that the wonderful Adrian Pang didn't get a lot of screen time , and his moustache does make him look kinda serious , departing miles away from his funnyman persona . What is superb too for a local film , are the cinematography and art direction . The colours are beautiful to look at , building upon those already available in the malls ' surroundings , and scenes come alive with its many locations that audiences would find familiar . After all , we do visit these places from time to time for our dose of retail therapy . And for the overseas audience , you're in for a real visual treat as well , as Gone Shopping made the malls actually look sexy , and for those who have been here before , take a look if you can recall where they were . While it is obvious these places are touristy and would make Singapore Tourism Board beam with brimming pride , it doesn't , not for a minute , look like a huge " Come Visit Singapore / Come Shop in Singapore " commercial , which is great . Retail therapy might pay off to chase those blues away , but Gone Shopping certainly is well worth the admission ticket , being able to straddle the arty film realm that most local movies seem to fall under , and having the commercial legs as well . If Singapore movies are growing from strength to strength with each output , then Gone Shopping has certainly stamped its mark for 2007 . Highly recommended !
A Nutshell Review : Ip Man	I shall now proclaim unabashedly that I absolutely love this movie ! It's been some time since we last saw a biopic on one of the Chinese's martial arts folk heroes , with Jet Li's Fearless being the last memorable one to hit the big screen . While Li lays claim to three of such roles in the iconic Wong Fei Hung ( in the Tsui Hark movies ) , Fong Sai Yuk and Huo Yuan Jia in Fearless , after which he felt he had to hang up his martial arts roles because he thought that he had communicated all that he wanted about martial arts through these films . And thank goodness for Donnie Yen still being around to pick up from where the genre left off , and presenting a memorable role which he truly owned , with Ip Man being the first cinematic rendition of the Wing Chun martial arts grandmaster . In this bio-pic , Ip Man , one of the earliest Wing Chun martial arts exponents credited to have propagated its popularity , gets portrayed as the best of the best in 1930s Fo Shan , China , where the bustling city has its own Martial Arts Street where countless of martial arts schools have set up shop to fuel the craze of kung fu training . With each new school , the master will pay their respects to Ip Man and to challenge him to a duel . Ip Man , an aristocrat who spends most of his quality time developing and perfecting his brand of martial arts , will take them on behind closed doors , so as not to damage his opponents ' reputation nor embarrass them in public . His humility is his virtue , and his style is never violent or aggressive , which often gets assumed and mistaken for being effeminate , since Wing Chun after all was founded by a woman . The bulk of the story gets set in the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese war , and it's not all fight and no story . Witth this historical setting , at times it does seem that there is an air of familiarity with the type of stories told , with how the Japanese Imperial Army had made life really miserable for the Chinese , and how the Chinese being fragmented in spirit , fail to unite during dire straits . More often than note , martial arts become a unifying force , and this aspect of the narrative might seem to be a walk in the usual territory . But with its array of charismatic supporting cast with the likes of Simon Yam as Ip Man's best friend and industrialist Quan , and Lam Ka Tung as a cop turned translator , there are little nicely put sub plots which seek to expand the air of respect that Ip Man commands amongst his community . The story by Edmond Wong did not demonize all the villains , often adding a dash of empathy and sympathy to the likes of the Japanese General Miura ( Hiroyuki Ikeuchi ) , a highly skilled exponent from the North called Zhao ( Fan Siu Wong ) as well as Lam's translator character who is deemed as a traitor for being in the service of the Japanese . Ip Man the family man also gets put under the spotlight , where his passion could sometimes leave him neglecting his wife and kid , and through the course of the story this focus often leaves one quite exasperated for his family's safety as he puts his countrymen above self and family when going up against the oppressive Japanese forces . So what's the verdict on the action ? Action junkies won't have to wait too long before watching Ip Man in action , and to Sammo Hung and Tony Leung Siu Hung's credit , they have intricately designed some of the most varied martial arts sequences in the movie , such as private fights in his home , a factory mêlée , a Japanese dojo battle as seen in the trailer , ( which I know has actually sent some positive vibes amongst moviegoers , mouth agape at that incredible scene of Yen continuously beating down a karateka ) being somewhat of a throwback and reminiscent of Bruce Lee in Fists of Fury , and a ringside duel amongst others . And it's not just Ip Man who gets in on the action , but specialized martial arts moves designed for the various practitioners as well . It's so difficult to name any particular one as a personal favorite , though I must add that you definitely won't feel short changed by the time the inevitable final battle comes rolling along and gets delivered with aplomb . I'm no Wing Chun practitioner , but Donnie Yen has this marvelous calm and zen like approach with his Ip Man taking out his opponents quite effectively with the minimal of moves . Like Huo Yuan Jia , he doesn't deliver the killing blows to friendly opponents , but rather simulates the various hit points , which actually calls for some astonishing control of strength and precision . This approach will change of course as the opponents become anything but friendly . And unlike the usual martial arts stance of crouching low , here we see him standing tall and striking with such precision and efficiency , it's like poetry in motion with some astounding closed quarter combat utilizing plenty of upper limb strength . With Wong Kar-wai at one point also declaring interest in making a Ip Man movie , I thought that this effort will be hard to beat , just like how Tsui Hark has crafted some of the more definitive movies in modern times about Wong Fei Hung and Jet Li benefiting from a major career boost , I'd say Ip Man just about cements Yen's reputation as a martial arts leading man , which I guess the cinematic world these days severely lacks . This has to go down in my books as one of my favorite movies of the year , and I'm already setting some money aside to get the best available edition of the DVD when it gets released . Highly recommended , so make a beeline for the box office now !
A Nutshell Review : Closer	Hello Stranger . Fate allowed us to meet , first as strangers . Then we become friends . We share a relationship , boyfriend / girlfriend , husband / wife . You tell me you love me . I tell you I love you too . But , do we really mean it ? How sure are we about it ? Will we stray from each other ? Will we lie to each other ? Or will we be honest about everything , and I mean , everything ? Mike Nichols opens The Graduate with Simon and Garfunkel's Sounds of Silence . Here , Closer opens with Damien Rice's The Blower's Daughter , whose lyrics contain the lines " I can't take my mind off of you , can't take my mind . . . my mind . . . ' Til I find somebody new " which forms the basis of the movie . " If you believe in love at first sight , you never stop looking . " says the movie's tagline , and while watching , I was thinking about the loads of questions the movie subtly throws at the audience , about modern relationships , as seen through the eyes of and experienced by its 4 main characters , whose lives and relations become intertwined . Fate allows the accidental ( pardon the pun ) meeting of strangers Jude Law and Natalie Portman , one a struggling writer , the latter a stripper . They become fast friends , and soon , a relationship develops . But what happens when Law starts to also fall for photographer Julia Roberts ? You'll start to ask - does he really love Portman ? What's the deal with his feelings for Roberts ? Love at first sight ? Lust perhaps ? Does he even care about Portman's feelings , or is he just selfish , wanting things his way ? Is he tired of Portman ? And Roberts , at first rejecting Law's moves as she knows he's attached , still finds herself drawn to Law's charms ( ok , he's good looking ) , and giving in . Portman appears in that same scene too , and she can tell that something's not quite right . This was an intriguing 10 minute scene , and the conversations amongst the characters tense . Law and Clive Owen " meet " in an interesting way , perhaps one of the more light hearted moments in the movie . Fate again intervenes - Owen and Roberts meet , and a relationship which led to marriage forms . Happy marriage ? Think again - Roberts has an off screen affair with Law , and when confronted with it , Owens start to go livid , and wants to know every detail ( even where they slept ) to justify his betrayal and hurt . Law confronts Portman with the same , and we see the heart wrenching acceptance that Portman emotes . Again , questions are raised - do we sometimes become clingy , that you suffocate a relationship ? How do you reveal the truth to the other party , while at the same time trying to cushion the blow ? How do you walk away from rejection with your dignity intact ? Or could you ? Owen and Portman met during Robert's photography exhibition , and again when Owen has separated from Roberts . They meet in a strip club , where Portman has taken up refuge in , entertaining men . This is a poignant scene , where more questions are raised , though in my opinion , it highlights Owen's lust on Portman . What happens then , to the adulterous couple Roberts and Law ? Are they happy together ? Will someone in such a relation be open to the other party meeting up with an ex ? If you're still in touch with an ex , will you tell your current squeeze ? Why ? Why not ? Honesty ? Will / Can your current squeeze accept the truth ? What more if you slept with your ex ? We go full circle at the ending , where you might think that all questions are resolved , all questions answered . There's a twist at the end which leaves you wondering , who's playing who , who's trusting who , who's being honest with who . Is honesty always the best policy ? But isn't honesty and trust the basis of any relationship ? I commend all four leads in the movie - Law , Portman , Roberts , Owen - they were excellent in bringing forth the various emotions required , and multi-faceted ones in fact . The characters are multi-dimensional , which makes them all the more plausible in real life . Nothing is cast in stone , everyone changes . The movie touched me in a personal way , and I'd bet for those who have / are involved in relationships , you'd feel the same way too - you can probably identify yourself in some of the characters , and how they dealt with themes of love , relationships , betrayal , jealousy , honesty , maybe even sex . The movie has a stark social commentary , which will leave you thinking and perhaps reflecting on your personal relationships . I'd recommend it to everyone . Go watch it , and start pondering .
A Nutshell Review : The Prestige	I've said it before , but I'll say it again . Christopher Nolan can do no wrong . Teaming up again with his Batman Begins cast of Christian Bale and Michael Caine , and joined with the Scoop team consisting of X-Men's Wolverinie Hugh Jackman and Scarlett Johansson , the stellar ( eye candy ) cast already set tongues wagging as to whether they'll be able to live up to the hype of Nolan's long awaited movie directly challenging the other picture about Victorian magicians , The Illusionist . The Prestige is the third act of any magic trick , with the first and second acts being the Pledge and the Turn . And this movie lives up to its namesake to a T . The way the movie plays out , it's like a huge magic trick , with the audience waiting to see how it unfolds , getting the suspicion on how it's done , but yet sitting through it thorough engaged to discover how everything will be revealed and resolved . It tells the story of how two magicians , fellow apprentices turned unfortunate rivals , plod down the slow path of jealous obsession , revenge , and the deliberate attempts to go at lengths to steal each other's ideas , to go one up against the other , a fight in romance , life and the long held passionate drive to discredit each other . There are perfect explanations of the value of secrets , and how secrets can sometimes be used as tools for deceit . What I thought was valuable in the movie was the reinforcement of the notion of how " magic " actually worked . Besides the better understanding of the common body of scientific knowledge , things like having pretty assistants to distract , and having planted staff amongst the audience , somehow made me a sceptic to tricks and illusions , and try harder to spot at which stage had things undergone a sleight of hand . More importantly , it introduced me to the notion and importance of a loyal engineer behind the scenes who designs elaborate contraptions solely for the magician's use , and how having disloyal staff can indeed be detrimental to any leaks of secrets . And Michael Caine took on this engineering role as Cutter , responsible for assisting Rupert Angier ( Hugh Jackman ) with loyalty and conviction that they could , as a team , beat Christian Bale's Alfred Borden . I thought the cast in general were superb , with Christian Bale leading the charge . Hugh Jackman too showed that he could play a dark character , as the two leads tackled their characters ' theme of sacrifice , arrogance , and ultimately redemption , especially for Rupert Angier . I thought he did what he did towards the end was a kind of penance to what happened in the beginning , hoping to kill two birds with a single stone , to exact the sweetest revenge he could possibly muster . What also was intriguing about the two lead characters was that there is no right or wrong , no hero or villain . It's always a shade of grey in what they do , and for Alfred Borden , I felt it's more for survival and the provision for family , which is a strong subplot running through the film . I just have to mention though , that Scarlett Johansson being Esquire's Sexiest Woman Alive , gets to play a flower vase role here as a magician's assistant , though her role as the pawn between the rivals added a little gravitas . The atmosphere was set up great , and so were the costumes and sets . The soundtrack was hauntingly mesmerizing , capturing the look and mood appropriately . Look out too for David Bowie's appearance as a Serbian scientist ! I was floored by the deftness of how Nolan weaved and juxtaposed the non linear narrative so flawlessly . While the usual techniques is to use placeholders , or flashback sequences , colours etc , here , time is so fluid , but yet the audience will know precisely which era they're in , without being explicitly told , or working too much of the noodle . You just know , and it's just that feeling of being totally transparent with time . Even though the movie clocked in at slightly more than 2 hours , you don't feel its length at all . At the end of the movie , one quote popped into mind : Misdirection - what the eyes see and the ears hear , the mind believes . Quite apt to describe how things work out during the movie , or to describe in general , Nolan ' s films so far . That added richness to lift the movie to a superior plane . Do yourself a favour , if there's one movie you absolutely must watch this week , then Prestige must be your natural choice . It's smart in delivery and slick in presentation . There is none other . P . S . Is it just me , or are notebooks a common feature in Nolan's movies ?
A Nutshell Review : Om Shanti Om	Om Shanti Om and Saawariya premiered the same time as the offerings for the Deepavali holiday , and to see how Hollywood money had influenced a Hindi production , I opted for the latter first . In its opening weekend in the UK , Om Shanti Om had trounced Tom Cruise's Lions for Lambs , so OSO went straight to my must-watch list this week . Moreover , while I have watched movies starring Bollywood King Shah Rukh Khan , I have yet to see him in action on the big screen , so this provided the best opportunity to do so . And he's not called The King for nothing . Here , his roles of Om Prakash Makhija the junior actor in the studio system , and Om Kapoor the superstar , allowed for plenty of room to put his acting chops to good use . For his stature , watching him play a lowly rated actor with big dreams was a hoot , especially when teaming with good friend Pappu ( Shreyas Talpade ) in sharing those dreams of stardom , and hamming it up for the camera . In a tale of two halves , the first is set in the 70s in a major movie studio where Om Makhija works , and Fate has it that he will become romantically tangled with the hottest starlet of the era , actress Shantipriya ( Deepika Padukone in her debut , going head to head with Sonam Kapoor's debut too in Saawariya ) . But of course the star crossed lovers ( aren't they always ) are dished a cruel hand , and the movie lunges into the second half , which I should avoid specifics , suffice to say that Shah Rukh's new character Om Kapoor ( nicknamed OK ) , is now a bastard of a superstar , full of arrogance and standing for everything that Om Makhija isn't . Naturally there is a running theme connecting both portions together , along the lines of the circle of life , karma , retribution and reincarnation . Having two characters essentially allowed the audience a fun time in comparing and contrasting which Om one would prefer , offering a glimpse of what Om Makhija could possibly become if success went to his head . What I always liked about Bollywood , is its run time allowed for plenty of songs , dance ( which of course are the enjoyable bits with the colourful sets and costumes all put to good use ) , and while certain plot development might be cliché , it does take its time to properly develop the characters , or the leads at least . Om Shanti Om is no different , though there were some overly melodramatic moments , sometimes tongue-in-cheekily offered courtesy by actress Kirron Kher as Bela Makhija , Om's junior actress mother . The song and dance again take centerstage , and they were nicely composed for specific purposes in the narrative , one of many reasons why I admire Bollywood . Om Makhija's fantasy sequences with many beautiful costume changes during his scenes of courtship is memorable , but even audacious was Om Kapoor's superstar-like performance with entourage of scantily clad blondes ( yes , you read that right ) in Dard-E-Disco , where you'll get jealous watching Shah Rukh's well toned abs , and remind yourself to hit the gym more diligently . But what made Om Shanti Om truly enjoyable and stand out , is its almost self-deprecating jokes that it cracks on the industry , the movie it makes and the studio system , but then , it's really a celebration of their cinema and how far they have come . For those well versed with Bollywood , there are tons of references and inside jokes that you can't help but to chuckle at , including very well known stars all being very sporty about their cameo roles ( hats off to Abishek Bachchan , hahaha ! ) . There were the obvious self-indulgent moments like the post - awards ceremony party , where you'll realize why the opening credits had a huge Thank You list to the Who's Who in Bollywood - having appearances by the stars in one 10 minute segment , is a real treat and a good introduction to rookies like me , who become interested in trying to figure out who they are , besides the recognizable few from movies I've watched before . Performing to Deewangi Deewangi , I thought the other scene that was equally fun , was the Filmfare Awards Ceremony , which was almost laugh-a-minute . Thinking about it while writing this still brings back the laughs ! As usual , you'd come to expect some moments of familiarity in the movie , and I don't deny that the storyline does seem deja-vu , but again what makes it a delight , is primarily Shah Rukh's magnetism . Director-writer Farah Khan managed to string together comedic moments and balance them with a tender love story that I thought was pretty sad , given its unconventional ( but not unpredictable ) treatment . Sometimes Bollywood movies are guilty of having set pieces which resemble Hollywood , just like Krrish had a set which looked straight out of John Woo's Paycheck , and here , adopting the special effects sequence for Confession of Pain is hard to deny . But what I thought was a full circle , was the finale song-dance sequence which had the proceedings mimicking screen life , just as how Moulin Rouge had theirs resemble the doomed love affair between Christian and Satine , which in itself had heavy Hindi influences during its own musical sequence . Om Shanti Om has everything - romance , drama , mystery and the supernatural all rolled into one , and if I had just one word to describe it , it will be " Remarkable " . Do yourself a favor , and watch it !
A Nutshell Review : Sunshine	I have been a fan of Danny Boyle's movies , though I've watched only but a handful of his movies - Trainspotting , A Life Less Ordinary , The Beach , 28 Days Later and Millions . Teaming up with Alex Garland , who wrote the novel The Beach , and the story for 28 Days Later , they team up again for this futuristic science fiction thriller , where a group of astronauts and scientist , aboard Earth's last hope for salvation - the Icarus II , in an attempt to deliver a " payload " of nukes to the Sun's core , to reignite our solar star and bring warmth back to a freezing Earth . From the onset where the Fox Searchlight logo makes way to the horizon where the sun peeks over valley and mountains , Sunshine wastes no time in establishing our crew of 8 - Capa ( Cillian Murphy from 28 Days Later ) the physicist , the MVP crew member who knows how to activate the bomb , which makes him not only valuable , but provided a minor plot hole quibble about this indispensability , Mace the engineer , played by Chris Evans , in a major departure from his usual jock roles in Cellular and Fantastic Four , Corazon ( Michelle Yeoh ) the botanist , in charge of the agriculture , hydroponic food and eco-garden to provide oxygen on board , Kaneda ( Hiroyuki Sanada , whom I last saw in the dismal The Promise ) as the Captain , Cassie ( Rose Byrne ) the pilot of the Icarus II , Searle ( Cliff Curtis ) the doctor , Harvey ( Troy Garity ) the communications officer who finds his value dip when his equipment got fried , and Trey ( Benedict Wong ) the navigator whose " to err is human " shakes up the entire movie . It does seem like the jolly crew of the Enterprise really boldly going where no man has gone before , doesn't it ? Even the Icarus II has a dish like structure for its payload and a separable capsule for its crew quarters . Nonetheless as you sit through the movie , it does bring shades of movie like 2001 : A Space Odyssey for its intelligent HAL-like onboard computer , Star Trek for its crew structure and space walks , Alien for its dark , dank claustrophobic spaceship corridors , and even the all-out action USofA ra-ra movie Armageddon for its nuke mission . However , Sunshine stems its own signature in the crowded field of space mission movies , and quite superficially though , made it a mixture of men and women in a potentially suicidal mission to save mankind from doom , and a multi-cultural / racial crew , as compared to Armageddon's team of redneck jocks . Danny Boyle managed to combined most of the good stuff from those movies , in a sort of adoption of best practices , and weaved in a moving drama about sacrificing for the greater good or for the objective , the perennial morality versus mortality question , and that of self - preservation . It's easy to make it the usual run off the mill movie combining action horror and mystery , but Boyle fused them all together with his distinct style , making Sunshine engaging at every level , be it the set action sequences to keep you at the edge of your seat , or cringe at the unknown horror kept under wraps for the most part , or be quizzical at the mystery as it unfolds . Although the development of team dynamics do seem choppy , there were instances where you can identify cliques and survivor styled alliances . I thought perhaps an extended DVD version will be able to put this aspect of characterization right . The movie's pace is measured and kept tight and tense , leaving no room for idle development though . You might expect certain outcome with regards to the set action pieces , but somehow , you don't feel like trying to guess who'll survive and who'll not . In fact , chances are you're likely to cling onto every sliver of hope that the crew will survive every ordeal thrown at them , and boy , do they get quite a number of challenges to deal with , each of them distinct , different , and likely to keep you engaged as it develops , formulaic or otherwise . Some though , might make you cry . There are plentiful CG effects , most of which are the beautifully stunning Sun images , as well as nifty effects works of the consequences of space travel . There's a nice end credits sequence which almost summarizes the entire movie , giving you an opportunity to relive some of the key scenes again . Accompanied by a great track called " The Avenue of Hope " , I was left curious though that the song was also subtitled ( in Mandarin ) as it played . Sunshine's strengths lie in its ability to release a leash of familiarity , and then reeling you in with a refreshing take on things expected to happen . It's one of the more accessible science fiction movie to date , which doesn't go all too preachy with the supposed messages it's trying to put across . You can watch and enjoy it at face value , or go bonkers debating over the philosophy behind the decisions undertaken by the crew . Sunshine is excellent - two thumbs up !
A Nutshell Review : Das Boot : The Director's Cut ( 1981 )	This is touted as one of the best WWII submarine films of all time , and it's not difficult to understand why . From the story to the cast , from the cinematography to the sound , everything's top notch on this German film directed by Wolfgang Petersen ( who's now helming more Hollywood flicks ) . I'd rate it above U-571 , K19 : The Widowmaker , Crimson Tide , and The Hunt for Red October . We follow the exploits of the crew of German U-boat U-96 , as it gets sent on its mission to destroy Allied convoys . We learn of the frustrations of inaction , having no targets , and living the lonely life aboard a submarine . We experience the claustrophobic environment , one which is shared amongst crew , where maintaining hygiene and tolerable living conditions is of the utmost importance of staying well . We pick up on the fear of the Captain about his inexperienced crew , most of whom were in their early twenties , and haven't seen much action in the high seas . What's gripping in this film is when things start to pick up . Technology those days aren't as advanced , and we see that U-boats are more likely to be sitting ducks when Allied destroyers hover above them on the water's surface , dropping multiple depth charges to rattle and hopefully destroy their underwater prey . The U-boat is the hunter , but once it has hunted , it becomes the prey . And such is the marvellous depiction of Fear in the crew's eyes , as they huddle in silence each time the enemy lurks above . The suspense literally keeps you at the edge of your seat , the silence , deafening . Many set action pieces bring out the different scenarios and challenges that the crew face in their voyage on the seas , and all these capped by the beautiful soundtrack which accompanies each scene . My favourite was the charge through Gilbratar . Although this movie takes on an Axis power's point of view , one can discard the political aspect of this film , and understand that lives on both ends are similar - each are fathers , brothers , husbands , and are thrown into a senseless political war . It doesn't go preachy on who's right and wrong , but touches on more human and basic issues of survival . Boys become men , and it is this transformation that is most obvious throughout the story . If you've got the chance , you must see the Director's Cut , running at about 209 minutes , just as Wolfgang Petersen envisioned it to be . Excellent stuff !
A Nutshell Review : Hancock	I'll stick my neck out and state this : Should anyone tell you Hancock is not a good superhero movie , then that somebody probably isn't a superhero comic book fan to begin with . Or perhaps prefers the heroes as morally upright boy scouts with unexplainable fetish for Lycra tights . And for those who reckon that the Hancock trailer had shown its hand , for once I thought that a trailer barely , and I mean barely , scratched the surface of what surprisingly was a thoroughly enjoyable story , which will take its stand proudly amongst this year's line up of comic book / super hero movies . But first , I'd got to admit , I'm a Will Smith fan . So at least you might have this review put into perspective . I've been enjoying the Will Smith Express with the kind of movies he's been doing for his career , even for the badly received Wild Wild West . But this guy has been in almost every genre from action ( thanks to Michael Bay ) to science fiction with I , Robot , romantic comedy with Hitch , a powerful dramatic performance with Pursuit of Happiness , and the recent remake I Am Legend , and each one I find little or no fault with . In fact , save for one or two movies in his filmography which I have not watched , it's no wonder that Smith's A-list material for his legion of fans around the world , having a name that can marquee a blockbuster movie , and one of the more consistently bankable contemporary stars . And Hancock ( ok , for this review I'd lay off all the jokes ) continues in this tradition of entertainment that isn't frivolous . To tell you more about the story would be to ruin whatever surprise it has in store , so I'll not do that . Suffice to say that like all superhero movies , Hancock is also about sacrifice , and I think that's a theme that the genre cannot do away with . It's almost always an exploration about doing the right thing , be it for the love of mankind , or those that touch on the more personal . If you'd believe the trailer as it suggests , then it's suffice to say that Hancock had to grapple with bad public relations from his jerk like behaviour ( stuffing heads up arses being his arsenal of choice ) , and that assistance comes free through the services of Ray Embrey ( Jason Bateman ) , a life which he saved by , well , causing millions of dollars in damages . If I were to scratch the surface just a little bit deeper , then I'd say that Ray represents the kind of normal life that Hancock probably wished to have , the simple , no save-the-world responsibility lifestyle , with a nice little family with wife Mary ( Charlize Theron ) and son Aaron ( Jae Head ) to boot . Director Peter Berg , who last brought us The Kingdom , dabbles with plenty of technology to bring us a man who can fly , possess incredible strength and being invulnerable to bullets . What I'd enjoyed about his take on this superhero movie , is that he didn't find a need to explain everything in verbatim , i . e . what are the powers he possess , where did he come from , and so on . sure they are addressed , but there's no need for putting it in your face , which I suspect lesser directors would have filmed flashbacks , origin subplots , enemies who are megalomaniacs who want to conquer the universe , and so on . They can be mentioned in passing , or a glance , or to let it work it out in your imagination , which of course is a powerful tool . And keeping it simple helped too , as I was really thrilled at how effective , and deceptively simple , its crescendo was developed , that it's tough to fight back tears as it goes for the juggernaut to reach out for your emotions . Clearly there were bits from the trailer which were probably put in as red herrings , or likely to have been reserved for the DVD as deleted scenes . While it runs at just over 90 minutes , the pace is frenetic , though of course not without the usual loopholes , especially with a major sequence probably to show off some cool graphics . If I were to gripe about certain things , it would be how YouTube got a significant product placement , and not actually having the actual , exact clips available ( I may be wrong but I did do a search ) , and having the camera seemed to want to take a jab at Will Smith action movies of old by continuously circling around his face ala Bad Boys . Some may also gripe about not having to see much of the born again Hancock in action , but again , the strength of this movie lies not in how it delivers its set action pieces . So what's my verdict ? To Berg , Smith and the rest of the cast and crew , Good Job ! And don't be a jerk and bolt for the exits the minute the end credits start to roll , or you deserve to have your head stuffed up another's arse .
A Nutshell Review : The Thin Red Line ( DVD )	It took 20 years for Terrence Malick to return to the cinema with The Thin Red Line , and if I recalled correctly , the audiences here were spoilt that same year by another much hyped about war movie , Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan , which delivered to action junkies some of the more in your face type of action with plenty of violence and gore , coupled with dismembered limbs flying all over the place . By the time Malick's movie was released , war movie fans here had already been spoilt by Spielberg's offering , and have already given respect to Tom Hank's Captain John Miller , so much to say that Malick's movie , without the fast cutting action sequences that the Private possessed , was boring . Personally , I'd like to set the record straight . If Private Ryan is akin to fast-food , delivering what is expected of a war movie without much frills , with its realistic war violence , then The Thin Red Line is like a fine restaurant cuisine that deserves to be savored and appreciated slowly . Not to say that it is slow paced , but for a war movie , it is exquisitely filmed , and captures real human emotions , good and bad , from both sides of the battleground , not just having Matt Damon looking afraid . And to anyone debunking the action sequences here as being less than stellar , they do not know what they're talking about . Granted that there are only 3 major action pieces , and the wait of almost an hour to get a shot fired , it was well worth the wait , but remember that action here takes a backseat . For anyone who has been in the armed forces , I'd like to think that we can easily identify with any of the perspectives that were presented here by the ensemble cast . And when I say ensemble , I mean it with a capital E . One of the plus points for the marketing folks of this film to go ballistic with , is the wealth of talent at Malick's disposal - Adrien Brody , James Caviezel , Ben Chapin , John Cusack , Nick Nolte , Woody Harrelson , Elias Koteas , and folks like George Clooney and John Travolta who were obviously there for cameo star power . Some were filmed but dropped off , like Tom Cruise , Martin Sheen , Viggo Mortensen etc , and I hope one day we do see that ultimate extended originally conceived cut of this movie . What make this film a triumph , was its characterization of the folks caught up in war . Not everyone allows for adrenaline to take over and becomes a Rambo overnight . More often than not , even with weapon at hand , we are afraid . Afraid of death , of the necessity to tote the line and follow dumb orders ( we know how stupid sometimes officers can get ) , and the constant lingering thoughts of loved ones when you're out in that field . Yes , even though I , and many other local males , have never been at war ( and hope not to be ) , training exercises and operations do allow for such experiences ( hey , we are dealing with real equipment , and if safety isn't followed , then at the extreme , death would come knocking ) . While many films have been made about the European theatre of war , very few good ones have been made on the Pacific theatre , and The Thin Red Line is set in the Battle of Guadalcanal , were a group of American infantrymen get ordered to take a hill and an airstrip on that island , to secure bragging and landing rights for their fighter jets , so as to achieve air superiority over a 1000 mile radius . It is the build up to their initial attack , that we learn a bit about our characters , and you can treat them like the buddies in your platoon - the one who goes AWOL , the one with a wife / girlfriend , the officer looking for his days of glory at all costs , and the one looked down for being soft . What I liked about Malick's presentation , was through the use of narration in between dialogues , it tells a lot more on the background of the character , and allows us to read into their thoughts , hypocritical or otherwise . And it doesn't shy away from the negative aspects , and what I found amusing , was how corrupt the process of awards can be . The Thin Red Line is one excellent movie which looks at the mindlessness and insanity of war . And for action junkies , it doesn't roll over from providing some of the most intense war action sequences , with soldiers attempting a full scale frontal assault charging up an enemy occupied hill , but my favourite would be where it captures perfectly in fluid motion , total confusion and utter mayhem unleashed when two sides meet in a village , where you can either follow the lead character on the camera's foreground , or focus on the wildly active background .
A Nutshell Review : Eye in the Sky	First time director Yau Nai-Hoi's Eye in the Sky gets the two thumbs up from me . It's an excellent movie with a strong storyline that gets zoned into the moment , with no room spent on unnecessarily bloating the movie beyond what it should be . Director Yau , a frequent collaborator and scriptwriter for Johnny To classics , brings to Eye in the Sky , a taut 90 minutes cop-robbers story on surveillance , of the men and women who do the thankless anonymous tasks behind the scenes on following suspects and trawling the streets for them . Surveillance is never easy , and trust me I know , from work experience . While there are countless of CCTV cameras and various technologies , nothing beats having up to date field intelligence . The opening film of the HKIFF , I had hoped to have watched this on its first screening , but it turned out to be a blessing in disguise , as I had one week to trawl the streets of Hong Kong and Kowloon , and being able to identify the locales used , was an added thrill . Although this is a cop thriller , it doesn't have the usual car chases , explosions or fancy gun battles . It's quite muted in these aspects , however it brings about a refreshing realism to the story , a great departure from the days when action has to be stylized ( flying through the air shooting two guns anyone ? ) The way the surveillance team operate , with its arsenal of disguises , tricks and vehicles , and the skills that one must possess - keen observation , alertness and an elephant memory , makes it like a cross between The Recruit and Mission : Impossible . Eye in the Sky tells the story of a new recruit , nicknamed Piggy ( Kate Tsui ) by her mentor Dog-Head ( Simon Yam ) , as she undergoes an on-job training of sorts in their case to track down some armed heist robbers , led by " Hollow Man " ( Tony Leung Kar Fai ) . It becomes a tight cat and mouse game as identities are attempted to be established , and the team comes up against a villain who's truly aware of his environment , turning the tables as the hunter might become the prey . There are strong performances all round , led by the veterans Simon Yam , in a change of alignment given his outings last year as villains , and Tony Leung , as a chillingly observant , cool and methodical sudoku-playing mastermind . In her first movie role , I thought Kate Tsui did remarkably well in her role as Piggy , the newbie lacking field experience , yet being thrown in the deep end of the pool to sink or swim . Perhaps it is truly her being new to the scene , that eased her comfortably into a role which is similar to herself , but the story does allow her room to showcase some of her acting chops , and she holds her own well against the veterans . Maggie Tsui too added some comedic moments as a foul mouthed police madam . Eye in the Sky is a recommended Hong Kong cop thriller ( time to let go of mole stories ) which is tight , and keeps you on the edge of your seat as you follow the surveillance team through high angles ( akin to CCTV camera angles ) , tight teamwork and features an incredible soundtrack as well to keep it fast paced . You must watch this when it makes it to our shores in Singapore , tentatively scheduled for mid April .
A Nutshell Review : Story of a Love Affair	The very first feature film of Michelangelo Antonioni , Story of a Love Affair as introduced by Lorenzo Codelli , was a film that dealt with the metaphysics , and had very little neo-realist elements which was a departure from what one would come to expect from a filmmaker whose documentaries were neo-realist . Watching it for the first time , I thought it would make a wonderful thriller / crime-mystery involving two lovers , and I suppose in the hands of Hollywood , we would get just that . But this is not Hollywood we're talking about , so again I get to throw all standard notions I was weaned on out of the window . As I was warned by a friend , I would be in for a rough ride because whatever structure of story-telling I was familiar with was going to be challenged , and strangely enough , I am beginning to find this challenge quite liberating , like the hitting onto a goldmine or an oilfield , and just raking in the sights and sounds from how beautiful a black and white movie could be , in terms of story , and characters . However , the characters need not be goody-two-shoes , or perfectly looking beings with zilch problems that they couldn't take care of within 2 hours . There are some serious and complex issues that the leads here have to grapple with , and together with an audience , we try and probe , and discover for ourselves just what those are , though naturally we aren't given all the answers on a sliver platter , and have to work hard at it , sometimes even utilizing some precious moments to breathe , digest , and compute , only being able to scratch the surface . Whatever the story or mystery is , it never really got addressed , not directly anyway . But story aside , I was really intrigued by the lead characters . We have a beautiful married woman Paola Fontana ( played by Lucia Bose whom we'll see later in another Antonioni movie , and at one time the reigning Miss Italy ) who seem to have the best of what luxuries life can offer , but is stuck in a loveless marriage to a rich man Enrico ( Ferdinando Sarmi ) . We're told that in her youth , she was a head turner , and almost always changes her boyfriends , each being the alpha-male type . Surprisingly , her lover whom she maintains contact with , Guido ( Massimo Girotti ) is anything but an alpha-male type . In fact , I would call him a loser in the classic sense of the word . No real job and penniless , he has some magnetic qualities to be be able to mesmerize Paola into trysts in cheap motel rooms . Meeting on the sly , we see how a high society woman have to dodge around from being discovered , and setting up alibis just to meet Guido , and we soon learn how wicked a woman she can be , for coming up with plans for crime to be committed to get things done her way . Which brings us back to the original thought of how she was involved in a more heinous crime / accident , where she could well be the chief manipulator then made to be seen as the victim . The main crime thread that got weaved into the story , was one involving a certain unseen Ms Giovanna , whose demise was linked to the two lovers . We never really learned what exactly happened , and Antonioni makes us work in order to try and piece clues and accounts together . And the probing of this mystery by a private investigator serves as a catalyst to the rest of the story , where we first see our lovers meet after a long while , but instead of enjoying each other's embrace , seem a lot more concerned with the PI's probe , as if afraid that it'll uncover hidden skeletons in their closets . Story of a Love Affair becomes an examination into these 2 characters , and interesting enough , to dwell on the problems that they face , in a somewhat lose-lose situation throughout their relationship . The first was when Giovanna served to be in the way of their coming together , being an in-between , and when that's settled , there's the other more pressing issue of whether they can elope successfully , where pragmatism takes over romanticism with Guido knowing for sure that he has no money , and little means to support both of them , especially the lifestyle that Paola currently enjoys . Definitely deserves a second viewing to try and develop my thoughts on it further ! And to enjoy the beautiful score all over again too !
A Nutshell Review : Spider-Man 3	Spider-Man 3 ushers in this year's many sequels in what would be a crowded blockbuster summer , but the question on everyone's lips is , with so many villains he's up against , will our friendly neighborhood arachnid prevail the movie sequel curse - that with many villains and being the third superhero movie in the franchise , it will most certainly be a dud and a victim of its own success ? Sam Raimi will have none of that , and found a special x-factor from within his own Spidey movie franchise to ensure sustainability . And it worked great . Superior sequels are a tough act to follow , and only a handful managed to survive the fatigue . It's not about putting in better effects , or introducing new and more powerful villains , but rather about the characters whom we have followed through from the previous movies . Here , we continue our journey with Peter Parker ( Tobey Maguire ) , Mary Jane Watson ( Kirsten Dunst ) and Harry Osborn ( James Franco ) , their love hate relationship with one another , and the will they or won't they situations . Having the creative team return ( sans Danny Elfman for the score ) and the principal cast intact ensured no continuity issues , which have casted a shadow on and doomed many other superhero productions like DC's Superman-Chris Reeves franchise , or the Batman one started by Tim Burton . Instead of relying on fluffy showmanship on the latest progression of how Spidey swings through Manhattan , and the temptation to shift all its grandeur action pieces to top gear , Spider-Man 3 actually had its characters spend much of their time out of costumes . Which is great , except for those impatient to get things going . It allowed for plenty of space for character development , a continuation of the relationship between Peter and Mary Jane , which on the previous movie's final scene , seemed to have an ominous feeling hung overhead . And yes , things are not going well for our couple . One's a public figure behind a mask , getting plenty of adulation from the common man on the street , while the other , still a struggling artiste in a cold unforgiving city . For Peter Parker , he's thrilled to have people celebrate his prowess , and allowed for success to get to his nerdy head . A nerd getting all the attention , certainly puts him a bit out of whack . He hardly listens , and the keyword here is listen ( take note , important to sustain relationship lesson abound ) , to his partner , and becomes emotionally unavailable , especially when she most needs him . And with miscommunication or the lack thereof , jealousy comes in the form of hot blonde bombshell Gwen Stacy ( Bryce Dallas Howard ) , with whom Peter violates a special bond between him and Mary Jane at the heat of the moment ( ok , all those who think it's being petty , might want to rethink that again ) . As a reminder , this is not the comic's Spider-Man . If it is , then Peter won't have organic web-shooters . So don't go all rile about Gwen's introduction at this stage of the franchise . It's her on screen , so celebrate that instead . Although she's a bit role , I thought Bryce Dallas Howard allowed fan boys to salivate at the prospect of having Gwen Stacy feature heavily in possible future movies . If Kirsten Dunst wish to bury her Mary Jane Watson aside , the franchise can definitely move on with Bryce stepping in with her Gwen , even though this time the comic time line will totally go out of sync . But to be fair to Dunst , her Mary Jane almost always have nothing much to do when Spidey's in costume , unless she decides to challenge for scream queen honors . It's again the same old damsel in distress the character finds herself in for a fair bit , and there's certainly a number of times where you can be held hostage , before some smart alec will deduce the reason why .
A Nutshell Review : The Sky Crawlers	The Sky Crawlers seem to live up to its name , that it really took its time to tell a story , but in doing so , allowed for the narrative to sink in . After all , it's brought to us by Mamoru Oshii , and as far as his filmography goes , this Japanese maestro's works is often deep , and have more than enough room for multiple viewings , each time allowing you to take away something different , or unnoticed from the previous time round . Adapted by Chihiro Itou from Hiroshi Mori's story , you could see the themes that this movie had that would interest Oshii to be at the helm . They are nothing relatively new , as fans would see some similarities in the characters ' struggle about their own existentialism , and what I enjoyed most , the connected thread between war and peace . It's like the notion of having to prepare for war that you get to enjoy some peace , and I guess every National Serviceman would have heard that at one point or another during their tour of duty . While one can find some distinct parallels from Americanized films that pay homage or blatantly ripping off Oshii's earlier works , what I thought could have been toned down , was how toward the end , subtlety wasn't the rule of thumb , and almost every theory got explained verbatim . There were enough unanswered questions along the way to tickle your brain , leaving you guessing and drawing your own conclusions , but there were at least two crystal clear moments that decided to tell all and show all , taking away most of the fun . So in a way , you have less room to maneuver your thoughts during that after-movie discussion with friends . I could imagine and understand any kid sitting inside a theatre hall having absolutely no patience for this masterpiece . Except for the opening sequence which had packed in the action at Top Gun pace , one's notion that this was going to be a war-action movie gets thrown out the window within 10 minutes . Naturally it has the potential to go in that direction by playing up and extending the aerial dogfights , but to do so would be to dumb this film down a lot of notches . Granted its characters are pilots , and kid pilots at that , " Kildren " ( I would like to think of it as Killer-Children ) who don't seem to grow up , get careers in Corporations that seem to be waging war on behalf of nations , and pilot propeller-powered warplanes to engage their enemy in attacking and defending routines . Heck , there's even a Red Baron equivalent as the resident bogeyman too ! They smoke , they kill ( up in the air ) and they make love , with nary an adult batting an eyelid , that you would deem them all turning a blind eye to their kids ' shenanigans ( of course there's a reason for this ) . Imagine the adults being quite nonchalant , and some even supportive , of kids fighting wars while they go about their daily lives , being quite unaffected other than being a feature in news bulletins . So we follow the adventures , and mysteries weaved amongst the characters of Kannami Yuichi ( voiced by Ryo Kase ) , base commander Kusanagi ( Rinko Kikuchi of Babel fame , who had also collaborated in Oshii's omnibus movie Kill under the segment Assault Girl 2 ) . The remaining supporting characters serve out their primary purpose , such as Tokino ( Shosuke Tanihara ) as the wingman / buddy , and Mitsuya ( Chiaki Kruiyama , Kill Bill's Gogo Yubari ) as the tell-all mouthpiece , which I thought that even without , the coda after the end credits roll would have summed it all up nicely . This is Japanese anime , so its quality is excellent , with some really photo-realistic moments , and aerial dogfights that look as real as if they really built those planes and shot them in mid air . John Woo would also be proud at how balletic the shoot-em-ups can get , pulling back its punches as well to avoid any explicitness in its violence . The main theme of the soundtrack is extremely hypnotic and would linger on you for some time after the end credits roll . After all , it's by Kenji Kawai . This is not an action movie , period . If that's the kind of movie you're expecting , then my advice would be to save your ticket money . If you're looking toward something that's more contemplative , and dealing with themes that would make you think along the way ( until the two mentioned moments where the hints get more obvious ) , and maybe even appreciate life a little more , then march up to the box office when this opens next week . Highly recommended , and definitely a contender when I compile the top ten list for the year !
A Nutshell Review : Syriana	Based loosely on real life CIA agent Robert Baer's experiences in the Persian Gulf , and brought to the big screen by Traffic scribe Stephen Gaghan , Syriana tells the tale of extremely shady dealings , politically and economically , of the oil industry . It takes on the entire vertical chain , from the Arab Emirs , the profit driven businessmen , the corrupt politicians , the clandestine networks , down to the alienated worker , the determined terrorist , and even as high as the top political office of the USA . It's no wonder that many have called this film anti-American , and pro-Arab . But in the way it's presented , you can't help but nod in the film's direction for daring to discuss and suggest what it says at point blank . It's serious , no holds barred , and brilliant . George Clooney won a Golden Globe for best supporting actor as CIA operative Robert Barnes . Yes , supporting , as there are so many characters in this movie , each with almost equal screen time , there isn't just one protagonist's viewpoint , but a myriad of others . So many different emotions of the characters are evoked , and the actors all delivered them well . Much has been said of paunchy Clooney and his beard and all , but don't let that distract you from his performance as the pawn in the entire game , and from noteworthy others . Everything's related , and everyone's connected . You'll have to sit through it very attentively , and pay attention to almost every line of dialogue to appreciate the very rich and complex story . It helps though , with both English and Mandarin subtitles , for you to read what your ears have missed . But perhaps what struck me most , were the sections on the unidentified Gulf country , with the challenge for power in the changing of the guard , and the focus on the individual downtrodden migrant worker , who through misguided teachings , finds himself on the forefront of the war on terror . It cut close to probably what could have happened , and the reasons behind it happening . And with so many suggestions on the wheelings and dealings of the corporate world , its effect on governments , the oil industry in general , the quest for insatiable power , US foreign policy , this film is loaded with political " big picture " firepower . Once you're through with the movie , if you haven't been reading current affairs in between the lines , perhaps this " fictional " story might just spur you to not take things verbatim , and spark that conspiracy theorist in you . Highly recommended stuff .
A Nutshell Review : The Lady WIthout Camelias	While this is the third feature film of Michelangelo Antonioni , it would mark the second time that Lucia Bose had starred in his film , the first being Antonioni's debut feature Story of a Love Affair . As Lorenzo Cordelli pointed out , Antonioni's The Vanquished had made its debut at the Venice International Film Festival , and in this movie , it contains scenes from the Festival , thereby giving it a somewhat documentary feel as it serves as a backdrop . It tells the story of a fictional star , charting the meteoric rise and fall of her career , and made quite a statement on the Italian film industry of the time , which was producing more than 300 features annually . Again , the female of the species turn out to be quite strong in character , while the male counterparts continue the trend of being rather meek , and lacking some alpha-male qualities befitting of a leading character status . Here , we have Lucia Bose's Clara Manni , a shopgirl from Milan who was talent spotted and brought to prominence on celluloid by film producer Dr Gianni Franchi , who together with the film world , fell in love with the dazzling beauty ( Bose herself was crowed Miss Italia once before ) . In today's context , this would be akin to continued casting calls for any scream queen / sex siren / teenage starlet to be typecast in a role in their respective blockbusters , with nary an opportunity for them to venture out of the tried and tested , all in the name of profit . Being rushed into marriage in the middle of a film production , we see how Gianni turns into a green-eyed monster , possessive of his trophy wife and chiding her for wanting to go along with the norm in getting herself casted in roles that require the revelation of some flesh , be it in steamy love scenes or in seductive poses in glossy magazine spreads . Granted , his idea of marriage is to have her become a homemaker given his wealth to provide her a more than comfortable life , but to Clara , it's akin to being imprisoned . So one will come to expect the usual marital woes that befall couples as fools who rush in , and find themselves smashing head on toward a rocky time . In today's blockbuster world , I guess it's obvious that sex and violence sells . In those days , as explained by the producer character Ercole ( Gino Cervi ) , sex , religion and politics in movies put bums on seats , which accounts for why scantily clad women could have been considered a de-facto " must-have " in order to appeal to the lowest denominator amongst audiences . To Gianni , in his good intent to want to elevate his wife's status to drama-mama , decided to make an art-house Joan of Arc ( which we are spared the torture of watching , only provided glimpses of it ) , much against the common grain of film-making , and with Clara being bored to tears , decided to go along with the project . With her Joan of Arc being both a critical and commercial failure , Clara becomes vulnerable . But here's where her character got interesting . Like Eve , she's fully aware of the forbidden apple , but yet found herself weak to resist the advances from a fan . She conscientiously knows of the destructive path she'll be walking down , both in reputation and personal life should she embark on an affair , but I guess the appeal that Mr Nardo ( Ivan Desny ) had , was being the wedge at the right point in time when she was emotionally at her weakest . Again , Nardo is a slimy male character that one would love to hate , given his motive of personal satisfaction in having to conquer a famous actress . However , you must salute his thick - skinned persistence and his great pretension , well hidden behind a suave demeanour . The saddest character here remains Gianni Franchi . You'll realize that while he has the best of intentions for his wife , life would have it that her reaction to his concern would go unappreciated most of the time . And pride would come in the way when someone who had broken your heart once , come knocking on your door for an opportunity . As Clara's character develops , she slowly learns about her naiveness , and becomes more aware of the business side of the industry . Here's where the film becomes a critical mouthpiece of the state of Italian cinema at the time , which led to potential Claras dropping their willingness to star in the film lest they offend industry folks . It makes comparisons and draws parallels between the exploitation of an actress's good looks , versus grooming them into serious thespians , and through Clara's bold reinvention of herself , one would have thought she would have learnt a valuable lesson to apply , given an about turn with her new found understanding and strength . But as it turns out , there's this invisible glass ceiling in place . I thought the ending was one of the most powerful ones , and a definite heart-wencher , seen thus far . It has a resignation to Fate , that no matter how hard one tried , the outcome has already been pre-determined by the stars , and try as you might , you just cannot effect any change . The streaming of tears down the eye , while masking it as tears of joy and forcing a smile , probably reflects Clara's greatest acting moment to date , smiling to mask some extreme unhappiness toward her life and career choices , that she became nothing more than a train on a railroad , following the tracks laid out in front of her . The absolute last frame that lingers , is well worth a ticketed admission , for the fact that Clara finally got to act .
A Nutshell Review : The Departed	The big question on the minds of those who have seen the original Hong Kong movie is whether this Hollywood remake is worth watching . I'd say hell yeah , down to your last dollar , weekend price or otherwise . Infernal Affairs ( 2002 ) earned its place in recent Asian movie history for reenergizing the cop thriller genre . Directed by Andrew Lau and Alan Mak , the movie had a one of a kind storyline about mole vs mole in the underworld and the police , and starred heavyweights Andy Lau and Tony Leung Chiu-Wai in the lead roles , with support by recognized character actors Anthony Wong , and Eric Tsang , with the appeal of Gen-X / Y actors in Edison Chen and Shawn Yue . After opening to rave reviews and becoming a trilogy , the rumour mill was out and about with Hollywood wanting to do a remake , starring Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise , whom to my personal speculation , would have just been as riveting with either actors taking on either role . It's a kind of Face / Off situation where the distinction between good-bad guys gets blurred . Essentially , with any spectacular , gripping story , you can have it done and made countless of times , and each version should all come out great given that the source - the story - is the same . However , it is always easy to screw up and not meet expectations , and herein likes the innate pressure that the cast and crew must have felt , taking on something that works , and making it their own . In Martin Scorsese's The Departed , the director teams up once again with Leonardo DiCaprio , after two consecutive collaborations in Gangs of New York and The Aviator . Here , DiCaprio takes on Tony Leung's role as the police mole in the underworld , headed by Frank Costello ( Jack Nicholson ) . As Billy Costigan , the biggest challenge is always to be on the positive side of an unsteady gangland boss , and maintaining some form of sanity while dealing with an identity crisis . Matt Damon is Colin Sullivan , in a role modelled after Andy Lau's , as the gang member inside the police force , feeding information to Costello . He finds himself living the good life . and contemplates the risk in having throw it all away should he get caught . And the cat and mouse game begins as both moles try to outwit , outplay and outlast each other , knowing that any revelation of their true identities will be totally disastrous , each trying to flush the other guy out . The acting's all round superb from both leads , with a stellar ensemble featuring recognizable faces in Mark Wahlberg , Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin . It's a welcome return for Nicholson back in the bad guy role after his recent attempts at comedies . I thought each instance where Wahlberg came on is a hoot , as his character , Dignam , comes with a dirty mouth which shoots off the cuff . In fact , Anthony Wong's character had to be split into two , shared between Sheen and Wahlberg ( which I think is a nod to Wong's ability , given two persons required to fill his shoes ) . Newcomer Vera Farmiga took on Kelly Chen's role as the psychiatrist and Sammi Cheng's role combined into one , doing away with probably an additional unnecessary character which the original featured . There are other minor changes along the way ( no remake can be an exact copy of another ) , but none too drastic , keeping intact the integrity of the premise , key scenes , and plot elements and devices . Clocking in at almost two and a half hours , an hour longer than the original , you will not feel its length , even as the movie took its time to establish the story and its characters . The dialogue is a major draw with some memorable lines , and if you've watched the original , your mind is constantly racing to draw parallels , but in most times , you'll find it equally engaging and as exciting , as if you're coming across the story for the very first time . Of course the pivotal ending , which was marred with the original having two of them to pander to being politically correct , is one such scene which actually helps to build anticipation as to how Scorsese would have to conclude . It's that sense of familiarity , yet a sense of something new . With some scenes being extended in duration , it helped build a certain depth for the characters as well , which does wonders for the movie . But what I felt lacked in this remake , was that personal link between the two moles , of a " what-if " scenario between the two before they faced off each other . Here , they are adversaries all the way , but the original provided a sort of hint , that if these two were on the same side of the law , they could have been the best of friends . Also , in the first mole versus mole match up , while in an attempt to be different from the original , it unfortunately lacked the intensity that Infernal Affairs had , but just for this particular scene . If you're wondering if The Departed is as good as Infernal Affairs , I'd say it is a worthy remake , except for that cheesy last shot before the end credits rolled . Some folks are already screaming Oscars . But remember , Asian Cinema produced this gem first ! P . S even though rated M18 locally , there were noticeable cuts in the movie , especially in dialogues .
