A One Note Song of Self Indulgence	VINYAN ( apparently meaning ' drifting souls ' ) is a film that calls for stamina and courage just to sit through it . The story is so meager , related by an ill-composed , repetitive script ( Oliver Blackburn and director Fabrice Du Welz ) , that the only reason to not turn off the DVD after the first 10 minutes is the hope that the fine actors Emmanuelle Béart and Rufus Sewell might make something of the simplistic idea . They don't . A couple ( Béart and Sewell ) lives in Thailand recovering from the loss of their only son Joshua in a tsunami . A video observed at a fundraiser seems to show ( at least in the mother's mind ) the presence of a still alive Joshua in a jungle in Burma . From that point the sole line of the story is the misfortunes the couple endure on a scam riddled journey to Burma to find their son . The ending involves a mountain of special effects and dreary children in silly makeup who supposedly represent the ' vinyan ' of the title . The ending is one of gore and titillation in very bad taste . This movie is one to ' pass ' when selecting DVDs form the local shelves . Grady Harp
An Unfortunate Display of Opportunism	Anytime the urge rises to be entertained with an escapist film the top of the list becomes one of the Asian martial arts films , films of stunning beauty , breathtaking choreography , handsome actors , and enough legend to make the storyline fascinating , e . g . ' The House of Flying Daggers ' . This pathetic film is packaged like those wonder movies and so deludes the public into thinking it is in an equal category . Not even close ! A child is born to a couple informed that their progeny will be a male warrior who has the secrets to read the codebook that contains the key to the power of the universe . The pregnant mother is stabbed by the evil adversaries but the baby lives , ' disappointingly ' a girl ! The girl Seki is transported via a leaf boat to a blind wise magician who cares for her and teaches her Taiji and Kung Fu , raising her to return to the world and discover life along with her gifts . A family who wants to maintain dominion over China sends two sons ( one evil and the other kind ) to capture the girl and steal the code to the sacred book . The evil son is accompanied by warriors : the kind son is accompanied by Caucasian Marx brothers . The rest of the story is too simple-minded to discuss . There are so many errors of judgment in the making of this film , not the least of which is a nebulous and silly script , that disrupt what might have been an honest attempt for Hollywood to make a martial arts film . But the acting is poor , combining Asian actors with non-Asian actors makes both look ridiculous , the special effects are clumsy , and the mood of ancient China is completely destroyed by the computer generated graphics superimposed on the real location of Griffith Park in Los Angeles ! The three stooges added to the good warrior's team are so silly that they pass funny into absurd . There is no ending to the movie : instead it feels like the producers just ran out of money . A must miss .
Yet Another Animated Comic Book Creature	The trailer for CONSTANTINE made it looking vaguely intriguing : majestic wingspan lifting above Gabriel's head , murky derring-do in the streets of Los Angeles , the presence of Tilda Swinton ( always involved - until now - in interesting dramatic films ) , Rachel Weisz , Djimon Hounsou , and yes , Keanu Reeves . So what happened ? Director Francis Lawrence should stick to his prior experience with making music videos . After the first few minutes of this tired and monotonous script ( deliver in tired monotonous bland monotone by Reeves ) you know you should just switch it off . But then come monsters emerging from the neck of a young girl undergoing exorcism , silly discovery of a lost spear by a border-crossing Mexican peasant in front of whom all animal life dies , suicides , ' up pops a new monster ' episodes etc etc . The apparent struggle between good and evil forces seems it may have been the impetus for this overblown mess , but others have done it better - many , many , many times ad infinitum . When will the public's tolerance ( ? demand ) for this genre be exhausted ? Grady Harp
Yes , it really is that bad . . . .	Sad to see films like this mess get the backing of the studios when little films of far greater significance and value lie in languor . This story ( bad guys in a foreign country get close to atomic capabilities that would threaten the world until one turnaround soldier man saves the day and the globe ) has been told so many times that the audience can sing along . The use of a lot of night shooting is obviously well considered as there isn't much to see anyway . What happened to the Wesley Snipes who used to make really interesting films ? Obviously the producers felt his star power could drive this dud as the remainder of the cast is unknown ( though many seem to be really fine actors without the benefit of a script ) . Thought about not wasting time reviewing this film , but then on the other hand , if enough people speak out about the bad movies that just keep coming down the pike , perhaps the studios and theaters will begin to pay attention . Grady Harp
Somewhere in this Film there must be a Reason for Making It	AWAY ( A ) WAKE is a very low budget little film directed by Morgan Jon Fox who also wrote the semblance of a script with Suzi Crashcourse , his cinematographer . As in his previous film BLUE CITRUS HEARTS Fox , a film school drop-out , seems to be developing a style and while that style worked fairly well with BLUE CITRUS HEARTS , here it seems to get in the way by making this seemingly self indulgent movie steer so far from a good idea that it is left floundering for an identity . Ostensibly the ' story ' intersects the lives of four characters : a gay high school lad who is reprimanded by his principal for a photo he shot of a moment of kissing with his boyfriend - an incident made into a homophobic circus against which the boy reacts ; a grandmother whose husband of thirty years walks out on her leaving her to wander around looking for reasons yet giving verbiage to the need to maintain ' wonder ' in our lives ; the grandson of the grandmother who also happens to be the first character's boyfriend but is left wandering the streets in his soccer clothes groping for meaning ; a older male street person with some insights into madness - or more meaningful views of the need for relating . Good thoughts , these , but the problem with the film is finding focus and that starts with devising a script that goes beyond pedestrian philosophizing . The obvious untrained actors do their best to make this all work , but they are disrupted by schmaltzy camera work that just pushes drama aside for the sake of effect . The film gives the feeling of having been shot in a day and a night : more time given to concept and production may have saved this strange little interlude into something worth watching . In all it is an annoying hour and a half of loosely associated ideas that never quite gel . Back to BLUE CITRUS HEARTS . . . . that was a better start for Fox . Grady Harp
An Embarrassingly Poor Film	CHE as written , directed , and produced by Josh Evans is an amateurish attempt to present the life of one of the more interesting revolutionary figures of the 20th century - Ernesto ' Che ' Guevarade la Serna , the Argentinean physician who searched for meaning in his view of the world and joined Fidel Castro in overthrowing the dictatorship of Cuba . Despite the presence of the fine actor Eduardo Noriega in the title role and Sonia Braga in a cameo role as Celia , Che's mother , the film is plagued by simplistic dialogue , lack of momentum , choppy editing , and a large cast that would have been a bit more credible had the film been shot in Spanish - the language of all of the actors . Josh Evans provides no insights as to the person of Che or his motivations , but instead relies on the viewer's knowledge of the period to provide the missing lapses in story line . And while many may feel that Che was the more important force in the idealism of the revolution than the leader Fidel Castro , it is doubtful that Castro was as tepid and uninspiring a figure as actor Enrico Lo Verso and the pathetic script make him appear . With the ' other CHE ' of Steven Soderbergh with Benicio Del Toro and a stellar cast due for release soon , it is not surprising that this amateurish film was released direct to DVD . The story and the actors deserve better treatment . Grady Harp
Dull , Duller , Dullest	Formula : take an OK story snippet that involves enough sci-fi buzzing sounds and light effects , give it to John Woo with a huge production budget , add Ben Affleck , Uma Thurman , Aaron Eckhart , Paul Giamatti , Colm Feore , Michael C . Hall ( each of whom is far superior to the tacky script and tired body shenanigans ) , add a very loud and noisy score by Paul Horn , James McKee Smith , John Powell and John Ashton Thomas , and mix it with tired contrived gimmicks that perhaps at one point in time were meant to defy belief , and voilà ! You have PAYCHECK . One wonders when Hollywood will realize that the market for this particular clone of movie is saturated and move on to something else . Or perhaps it is viewing this turkey immediately after viewing the brilliant and budget-limited film " 11 : 14 " that points out all of its weak points . But that is being kind . This movie simply isn't worth your time . And these actors should have passed on the project . Grady Harp
Nice scenery but . . .	' Inspiración ' isn't . For those who have the patience to sit through this Mexican extended novella , discovering that other countries are capable of producing the kind of summer chick flick messes that Hollywood cranks out ad infinitum will be the surprising reward . Written and directed by Angel Mario Huerta and starring a group of Mexican TV actors , ' Inspiración ' has little to recommend it . A group of Macho guys ( supposedly teenagers although all of the actors are obviously aged well beyond that ! ) with little on their minds except dating , doing the club scene , sporting wagers about girls as though the girls were game-things for goals , spur on the naive Gabriel ( Arath de la Torre ) to pursue a beauty he merely glimpses and gets a first name Alejandra ( Bárbara Mori ) . Gabriel in ' inspired ' to write poetry ( not a pastime appropriate to macho men . . . ) in response to Alejandra , has a confrontation with his father that begins with the usual flair of son not living up to father ideals and ends with a complete reversal of tears and forgiveness . . . , and is rigged into assignation with his ' inspiration ' . Each move Gabriel makes to woo Alejandra results in disaster in situations intended to be humorous but that are really just gross or silly . It is the old , tired story of boy meets girl , boy falls all over himself to impress , girl initially responds but is gradually repulsed by boy's insipid arrogance and behavior , boy looses hold on girl , and eventually boy gets girl . Yes , that is it ! The acting is almost as weak as the script and direction and while some of the actors are attractive people , they have no sense of comedy or love chemistry or charisma . The film is overproduced , with more emphasis on décolletage than on character development , and in the end the only saving grace is seeing Monterey , Mexico and surrounding areas to advantage . Definitely a class B movie that probably should not have been exported . 92 long minutes in length and in Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Rent a Husband Italian Style	' Mariti in affitto ' ( ' Our Italian Husband ' ) is sort of a mess of a movie . Ilaria Borrelli wrote and directed this bilingual film and apparently lost track of her story during the making of it . The Italian language portions are supplemented by English subtitles , but the English , when spoken , is so distorted by the actors and by the musical sound track that the words are nearly incomprehensible . What results is a slapstick comedy acted way over the top to the point of frustration on the part of the audience . The action opens somewhere in Italy where Maria Scocozza ( Maria Grazia Cucinotta ) is eking out a living making sandals to support her two children from her marriage to artist Vincenzo Scocozza ( Pierfrancesco Favino ) who left for America some years ago to make it big in New York . Maria is courted by older gentlemen who threaten her to the point that she leaves with her two children to fly to New York to re-join her husband . Upon arrival she finds an unfriendly country but no husband and is befriended by Raul ( Diego Serrano ) who eventually finds her work passing out fliers for an agency called ' Rent a Husband ' . She eventually discovers her husband has remarried to TV model Charlene ( Brooke Shields ) who is extremely pregnant . Outraged but with no place to go , Maria and her two children move in with Charlene and Vincenzo , and as predicted the two women eventually join to plot against the two-timing Vincenzo . . . etc etc etc . The acting is raw - Chevy Chase even has a role as a TV writer - and the performances all border on overacting . There is a hint that somewhere in this mélange of ideas there are some solid humanistic points to be made , but everything gets lost in the mess of a production . Not a very good way to spend an evening .
An Acquired Taste	Christopher Guest is a creative spirit who has been able to make some very funny films like ' Best In Show ' where his technique of avoiding a script by giving his cast of actors an outline as matrix for a scene , letting them ad lib the idea a couple of times , then accepting the second or third take as the final product - pasting all the bits together in the edit . Sometimes it works : sometimes it flounders . Or to quote a famous advertisement ' Sometimes you feel like a nut , sometimes you don't ' . For this viewer this mocumentary about a very bad film company churning out a very bad film with a rather pitiful cast of actors falling victim to Internet rumors that an Oscar is in the air works as a funny idea and social comment for about the first half four and then sadly falls apart painfully as it proceeds to its wholly predictable end . Guest uses his usual company of actors ( Catherine O'Hara , Parker Posey , etc ) and they seem to have a good time making fun of themselves ultimately . Yes , there are funny moments , but the further the movie plods the less funny the moments become and ultimately the result of the ' rumor of greatness ' shows us the shallow lives of the sad sack troupe of actors and producers and writers that started out with a pretty awful idea . Guest usually pulls these capers off nicely , but perhaps with such films as ' The Producers ' musical on the screens simultaneously the joke is stale . It is a good film to watch as Oscar time is upon us - and there is some pungent jabbing at awards concepts floating through the film . This is a movie for Guest fans , but not a good start for those who don't know his work . Grady Harp
If meant to be a spoof , it is passable : " Come on baby light my fire "	For the first half hour of this movie the viewer may get the idea that the script Michelle Gallagher and Alan B . McElroy is just awful ( with good perception ! ) , but as the film's story evolves the idea that this may just be a National Lampoon parody of action flicks - and if that is the case , it is truly a funny bit of entertainment - for a while . Then it becomes obvious that the minimal storyline ( ex-Marine's wife is abducted by diamond thieves and Marine elects to leave his one day ' security job ' and take the initiative to capture his wife and strike down the bad guys in the swamps of North Carolina ) is really just a matrix for staging as many pyrotechnics explosions as possible . It does get tedious . The ' star ' of this noisy , ' Unrated - for - destructive - violence ' film is one John Cena , another wrestler from WWE ( World Wrestling Entertainment ) being promoted by the director John Bonito to follow the path of The Rock : the difference is The Rock has done some classy acting and a range of roles that call for much more than flexing whereas Cena seems completely like a fish out of water who has yet to take a class in acting basics . John Cena does have a splendid physique and perhaps that should have been more on camera . Instead his ' John Triton ' character , despite his tremendous physical advantages , gets beaten up by some pretty small and older guys , making us wonder why he has all that bulk and no fighting ability . The cast is good to adequate and once you realize this film is a parody , they seem even better delivering the corny lines they are given . Among the crew are Robert Patrick as Rome ( the chief bad guy ) , Kelly Carlson as John's wife , Anthony Ray Parker as the hilarious ' token black ' bad guy ( he truly has comedic talent ) , hunkies Manu Bennett and Frank Carlopio for eye candy , Abigail Bianca , Jerome Ehlers , Damon Gibson , and Drew Powell as the crew in flight . They are a likable bunch of criminals but oh can they blow things up ! For the action film addicts only . Grady Harp
A Used Story , Used Production Techniques : A Tired Movie	BEEPER is the product of those films that deal with kidnapping of a child with the only connection with the perpetrators being by cell phone or other mechanical devices supposedly to enhance the tension of identifying the bad guy . By now the story is so used and tired that it takes a spectacular gimmick to make it fly . BEEPER remains grounded . Dr . Richard Avery ( Ed Quinn , known to only those who watch TV ) flies to India with his young son ( he is a widower ) to give a lecture at a worldwide medical conference . In the audience the son Sam ( Stefan Djordjevic ) disappears and the good doctor notices too late , beginning a long series of chases to find Sam . Avery encounters Sr . Inspector Vijay Kumar ( Gulshan Grover ) , whose specialty is drug dealing problems , and Inspector Julia Hyde ( Joey Lauren Adams ) , whose specialty is kidnapping . But Avery is informed that he is to follow instructions given through a beeper and to avoid the police . Avery finds his only source of information is through Zolo ( Harvey Keitel ) , a drug lord in Delhi who has special interests in fulfilling the ransom : cash for opium . After an endless car chase through the streets and markets of Delhi the truth about who is the real kidnapper is revealed . . . and the movie glides to a bumpy end . Seeing India as a backdrop for an intrigue film is promising but visually this viewer gets the feeling that much of the footage is actually from a can rather than being on set . The acting ranges from fair to really awful and the script by Michael Cordell and Gregory Gieras is dreary . Made in 2002 and just released on DVD it is not a secret why the movie didn't make it in the theaters . Even the usually reliable Keitel can't save this one . Grady Harp
A Movie with Many Problems	THE MIST has the full panorama of responses , from those who find it ' the best of the Stephen King story adaptations ' to those who find it a feeble attempt to wed science fiction with biblical predictions . Frank Darabont has successfully brought King's popular horror stories to the screen with great success . For this film his gathered a substantial cast , used computer generated graphics well , but in the end the result is a confusing mishmash of story versus sermon versus actors being overwhelmed by some really strange upstaging creatures . David Drayton ( Thomas Jane ) is a graphic artist who manages to weather a freak storm only to discover a mysterious mist hovering over his backyard lake . Going to town with his young son to get supplies at a Food Store he joins the other townsfolk in the gossip about the mist which now engulfs the town : could it be due to some experiment at the military post lab in the mountains ? The store's generator sounds like it is fumbling , and while brave David tries to fix it ( mind you , in this town with no electricity , the lights in the main store remain on . . . . ) , he sees the back wall buckling and hears a bizarre noise . Returning to the storefront , his findings are not believed - especially by the town psycho Mrs . Carmody ( Marcia Gay Harden ) who sees all things in relation to her channeling of God via her knowledge of the Book of Revelations , and the dubious out-of-towner Brent Norton ( Andre Braugher ) . But gradually David gathers some sensible folk ( Toby Jones , Chris Owen , et al ) to accompany him to the generator room and against David's warning , the back door is opened by the young stock boy and huge tentacles enter from the mist and consume the lad . Thus we have two factions : those who side with Mrs . Carmody's religious zealot need to sacrifice people to the outdoor monsters now flying about the store and those who are convinced they must fight the offenders with force and escape . The mess of a story is further confused with overlay of father / son devotion , mass hysteria , mob rule , revenge on the military for loosing these ' other world monsters ' on the public , and ' what do we do if this is the end of the earth ' . How it all winds down may satisfy some and may irritate others . So why rate this film with two stars instead of one ? Marcia Gay Harden gives a bravura performance as the crazy Mrs . Carmody and Toby Jones offers a solid representation of the stable man as a clerk in the store who keeps his wits about him . Thomas Jane is Thomas Jane , and for an action hero , he seems to melt with the circumstances . The movie is long , silly , not scary , and suffers from a weak script . For those who are entertained by this sort of story it may be worthwhile . For those who are fatigued by the same old line of good versus evil in the form of gooey huge monsters , pass on this film . Grady Harp
Ennui would be a kind descriptor	Clocking in at just under two hours , I LOVE YOUR WORK leaves the viewer feeling as though from the opening sequence that stones have been tied to your feet and your body thrown into the very deep and dank water to slowly settle into the mud at the bottom . Sound dreary ? Then avoid this little mess of a film . It is hard to believe that Adrian Butchart who is giving us the radiant GOAL ! THE DREAM BEGINS trilogy could help write this script : one wonders if writer / director Adam Goldberg didn't just bring him in for help . The story is tired ( small time guy gives up love for a career as a movie star with all the accessories of money , fame , celeb status , gorgeous wife , etc . only to find life in its simpler fashion was preferable ) and the choices of casting this very dark and dreary tale are inappropriate . Giovanni Ribisi , superb an actor though he most assuredly is , simply is not credible as a movie star sex symbol whose stardom is accompanied by alcoholism , self hate , paranoia , fragmented thinking , and bad decisions . The only time we see anything vaguely suggestive of his ability to create a role is in the many flashback scenes ( with girlfriend Christina Ricci ) : his on screen chemistry with his famous wife Mia ( the enormously talented Franka Potenta who here is wasted in a mannequin's role ) is nil , and his interplay with such actors as Vince Vaughn , Marisa Coughlan , Judy Greer , Shalom Harlow , Joshua Jackson , Jason Lee , and Elvis Costello is unilateral . Goldberg films this boring redundant tale using all manner of artsy camera tricks that only serve to make the tedium increase . With a cast like this the product had promise . Goldberg needs some time to think about this phase of his career . Grady Harp
Where oh Where was the Script Doctor for the Date Doctor ?	Now and then movies with big name stars and expensive production budgets and PR hype that convince audiences that the Rapture is at hand hit the mat with a thud - and this HITCH is floored in the first half hour ( of an overly long two hour movie ! ) . Using a script that uses every cliché from the myriad other films that tell this same story gimmick using females in the Smith role of date doctor , this movie limps along with silly dialogue and pratfall type of comedy , all of which could be forgiven if there was a magical chemistry between the two top stars to make it click . For all the talent Will Smith has demonstrated in the past ( despite his recent over the top laffapaloozas like ' I , Robot ' , ' Men in Black I & II ' , ' Bad Boys I & II ' ) such as ' Ali ' , ' Six Degrees of Separation ' , ' The Legend of Bagger Vance ' , he seems bent on accepting roles that are beneath him . In this bit of fluff he wastes time talking directly to the audience about the fine art of capturing a girl and then demonstrates his techniques ad infinitum on some blundering characters , ultimately trying to apply his own wisdom in courting Eva Mendes . At this point there should be romantic magic to make this dud work , but the chemistry between the two is so polar that we are forced to wait out a dating game that is less interesting than a Home Depot commercial . The direction is sluggish when it begs to be slick and the acting is rudimentary at best . NOT for fans of the gifts of Will Smith , but if you're in need of a popcorn summer flick to fan away the heat , you might try this lump of ice . Grady Harp
Havoc it is	If there is some justice to misjudging investments in movies , then the fact that this film went directly to DVD despite the presence of a crew that includes some impressive names is notable . Writer Stephen Gaghan ( ' Traffic ' , ' Rules of Engagement ' , ' Syriana ' , etc ) has composed a contrived script about rich , bored , Hip Hop imitating , unmotivated teenagers trying to spice up their insignificant lives by treading into the East LA ' danger zone ' , an experience from which they learn nothing about cross cultural ethnic groups and just return to Pacific Palisades whining about ' damaged goods ' . It is an insulting story , one that stereotypes Hispanics as drug-peddling , raping thugs in a totally black and white manner , not taking into consideration the viewpoint of a cultural group's positive attributes and philosophies . No longer a viable gimmick , the film begins with the tired cliché of a kid making a documentary about his friends , asking what they like and don't like , their goals , their outlooks . The fact that none of the interviewees has a clue about life , preferring to follow the current Hip Hop language ( very poorly written ) and focusing on sex , drugs , and escapes from their wealthy environments . Among these are three girls , the main character being Allison ( Anne Hathaway , miscast in every way ) , who follow their superficial boyfriends on a joyride for drugs into East LA . There they meet Hector ( Freddy Rodríguez , trying his best to create a character without the benefit of a decent script ) who sells them drugs and whom Allison eyes . Allison is so shallow she doesn't have a clue about her motivations , just wanting something ' dangerous ' to happen . She coaxes her equally clueless girlfriends into going into East LA to seduce Hector and ends up in a ridiculous barter for joining Hector's gang ( no mention is made at all about the Chicanas who would never allow these three geeks to enter their territory unchallenged ) . The results of a barter results in an experience with which the girls cannot cope so they run back to the protection of the dysfunctional parents they loathe to cover the mess of their caper . Attempts to resolve this dumb story fail pathetically . With so many fine Indie films that go begging for attention , it is a shame money is wasted on this sort of meaningless mess of a film . The ' unrated ' designation is probably meant for the occasional nudity and gratuitous sex and language , but here ' Unrated ' might just mean that the film is so without merit that it is non-classifiable . Avoid this one and don't think that a fine writer such as Gaghan guarantees a successful story . Grady Harp
Perhaps this was made as an Aussie Vendetta . . . . ?	ALL THE WAY ( aka THE NIGHT WE CALLED IT A DAY ) is a docudrama of sorts : it is based on a true incident that happened in Australia in 1974 and still is grumbled about today . Why this flimsy film was made in the first place seems only due to lasting resentments on the part of the Australians at the arrogant and crude behavior of Frank Sinatra when he made an appearance in Sydney during a world tour : he insulted the press , caused the labor unions to react in defiance by cordoning off his connection to the world outside his darkened hotel suite and demanded an apology from the star , an act that Sinatra refused to do . Writers Peter Clifton and Michael Thomas have attempted to make this boring incident viable by revealing the background events and characters surrounding the event . They have created Rod Blue ( Joel Edgerton ) as a failing show promoter who puts all his money and future into assuring the house for the concert . Australia loved Sinatra : this seemed his ticket to ride . Frank Sinatra ( Dennis Hopper playing Dennis Hopper ) arrives and one of the Press who alienates Sinatra is Rod's girl Hillary ( Portia di Rossi ) and when she asks inappropriate questions , Sinatra calls her a hooker and there begins the furor of the Aussies . The people are incensed at Sinatra's foul mouth and insensitivity and boycott the concert . The Labor Unions , representing the people of Australia , strike so that Sinatra is trapped in his hotel without light , water , food , room service , etc . Rod Blue's surefire scheme seems destined to fail . Sinatra is accompanied by his squad of hefty goons and his current paramour Barbara Marx ( Melanie Griffith ) and it is Barbara who intervenes and helps salvage the situation . She encourages Rod's mousy assistant Audrey ( Rose Byrne ) to believe in Rod whom she secretly loves and coerces Sinatra into negotiations with the people he has offended . Yes , it all works out in the end - Sinatra does his concert , Rod makes money and the audience appears satisfied and enthusiastic . Sound like a fairly boring film ? Well , it is . It is partially saved by the entertainment of watching Hopper lip sync Sinatra songs as sung by Tom Burlinson , by Edgerton's commitment to make his hero Rod a credible human being , and by seeing Melanie Griffith looking terrific in beautiful gowns . Otherwise , despite the casts ' best efforts , this is a forgettable film .
Gabriel García Márquez ' novel ' El amor en los tiempos del cólera ' without the Magical Realism	For devotees of Gabriel García Márquez this unprofessional adaptation of his sweepingly romantic novel ' El amor en los tiempos del cólera ' will sadly disappoint . Ronald Harwood's screenplay is a patchwork quilt that attempts to tell the story of longing for love in the manner of a novella / travelogue and despite the presence of some very fine actors in the key roles , director Mike Newell forgets to grasp the atmosphere that makes the original novel ethereal . Young Florentino Ariza ( Unax Ugalde ) is a poor dreamer working as a telegraph operator and sees and falls in love with young Fermina Daza ( Giovanna Mezzogiorno ) , daughter of a wealthy mule trader Lorenzo Daza ( John Leguizamo ) who upon hearing of the infatuation whisks Fermina away as Florentino pledges undying love and fidelity to Fermina . Florentino's mother Tránsito ( Fernanda Montenegro ) , his uncle Leo ( Hector Elizondo ) , and his friend Lotario Thugut ( Liev Schreiber ) comfort him and try to encourage his mating with another woman , but as Florentino matures ( now Javier Bardem ) even the long list of sexual encounters cannot turn his mind away from Fermina . Fermina marries Dr . Juvenal Urbino ( Benjamin Bratt ) , travels widely , has his child and ultimately discovers her husband's infidelity . Florentino inherits his Uncle's shipping wealth , becoming one of the wealthy class that would have made him an eligible suitor for Fermina when he originally met her . But time changes everything except Florentino's commitment to Fermina and after the death of Dr . Urbino , he has the chance to realize his long awaited dream of being with the now 70 + year old lover . The story spans fifty years in an unnamed city in Columbia ( here Cartagena ) and across the beauty of both South America and Europe . All of the basic elements are in place : the important missing piece is the magic of Gabriel García Márquez's prose . The huge cast is wasted on a script that is less than pedestrian : Javier Bardem tries to make Florentino a credible sympathetic character but is stuck in the mud of his lines ; the brilliant Fernanda Montenegro attempts to paste together the pared down role of Florentino's mother ; an unremarkable Giovanna Mezzogiorno fails to make Fermina worthy of Florentino's devotion ; John Leguizamo is grossly and embarrassingly miscast ; fine actors such as Unax Ugalde , Liev Schrieber , Catalina Sandino Moreno , Ana Claudia Talancón , Hector Elizondo and others are little more than cardboard caricatures of the original creations . One wonders how Newell and Harwood could have strayed so far from the mark of the potential that this beautiful novel promised as a cinematic transition . But what resulted from their collaboration is an overlong , boring , and sloppy version of the original story . Sad to see fine actors wasted in this film . Grady Harp
" Comedy ceases to be funny when it is demeaning "	Curiosity drove this viewer to see BORAT : CULTURAL LEARNINGS OF America FOR MAKE BENEFIT GLORIOUS NATION OF KAZAKHSTAN . Especially when the Golden Globe nominations pegged both the film and the star as candidates for potential honors ! ! ! ! And though many very fine reviewers find this film worthy of praise , the response after viewing the piece in a theater packed with people howling with laughter - again , for this viewer - was one of being appalled . Comedy is an art , an art that magnifies human foibles and allows a different viewpoint to make even sad aspects of life appear humorous . Dark comedy can be cruel when the writing is acerbically witty and smart . What BORAT seems to have done is costume and scene change a standup comedy routine bent on grossing out its audience and choosing a demeaning manner instead of a parody to lash out at the multiple groups it attacks , be those the people of Kazakhstan , Pentacostal Holiness churches , drunk sexist / racist teenagers , feminists , businessmen , actors , Jews , homosexuals , rodeo folks , genteel Southerners , TV talk show hosts / weathermen , etc . Production wise the filming is crude , the storyline is plotted to look as though it were spontaneous candid camera takes ( yet credits a long list of writers including Cohen ) , and the flatline character of Borat is as predictable as the potty mouth humor it accompanies . But apparently the public wants this type of entertainment on the screens : the film is raking in millions for the effrontery of Sacha Baron Cohen . Have we really arrived at a state where our choices range from comic book hero flicks to gory slasher flicks to the base , crude , and thoughtless antics of extended comedy hour routines ? Food for thought , but this viewer is obviously in the tiny minority . Grady Harp
A Dreary Rehash of the Too Familiar Drugs / Gangster / Bad Cop Story	How this story of freeing a deadly criminal from prison to act as a stand-in for an at large criminal ( Bobby Z ) to bring revenge and closure to corruption on every level of the playing field can continue to be reproduced ad infinitum will remain a puzzle . This tired , poorly acted , hyper kinetic desert film wastes the talent of some good actors , gives plenty of killings to watch , and then introduces counterfeit kindness as a reason for making the film , is a movie to avoid . Paul Walker is the released Bobby Z look-alike who will be freed from his life in prison by Laurence Fishburne's cop image if he merely shows up in Mexico as bait for drug lord Joaquin de Almeida's hostage demands for Fishburne's partner . Of course it all goes wrong at the exchange point , allowing the fake Bobby Z to find a female interest ( Olivia Wilde ) as well as a little boy ( J . R . Villarreal ) who is supposedly the son of the real Bobby Z ( and therefore is taken in by the fake Bobby Z ) , and the rest is just a messy chase sequence and series of killings and kidnappings . The bad guys outnumber the good guys , and , well the rest is yesterday's sandwich . Not recommended even if there is nothing else on the shelves to rent ! Grady Harp
Silly	AWAKE would be better named ' audience wake up ' as the minimal novel idea of the story loses credibility so quickly that the development of the subplots become increasingly tedious and silly . Joby Harold both wrote and directed this film and despite the presence of some fine actors , the film remains grounded . Clay Beresford ( Hayden Christensen ) has inherited his dead father's multi-billion dollar fortune and shares the wealth and control of his empire with his domineering mother Lilith ( Lena Olin ) . Clay apparently has a genetically determined cardiac pathology , is medicated , and awaits a heart transplant . The only semblance of honest life Clay has is his love for his mother's secretary Sam ( Jessica Alba ) who , despite Lilith's objections , marries Clay after disclosing their relationship . Clay's beeper warning that a cardiac donor is available cuts short their night of honeymoon and Clay is rushed to the hospital to his constant friend , Dr . Jack Harper ( Terrence Howard ) , who just happens to be a heart transplant surgeon and who Clay prefers over Dr . Neyer ( Arliss Howard ) , the superior cardiac surgeon friend of his mother who has been the designated surgeon all along . The gimmick of the film is ' anesthetic awareness ' , a state of anesthesia when the patient is paralyzed but aware of the talk in the OR as well as the pain of the surgery . What Clay hears ' under anesthesia is a ridiculous , convoluted plot involving all the people he thought he could trust and about which he can do nothing : in order to keep the storyline rolling , the script gives him an out of body experience so that Clay can be his own detective in solving the myriad discrepancies of his situation . The ending is very predicable and begs viewer indulgence . Perhaps the credibility of this story would have been better if the director and actors had paid more attention to OR technique : walking into an OR in street clothes , handling patients without gloves or masks , allowing outsiders to enter the OR during a transplant procedure , beginning surgery without documentation of complete anesthesia or before the donor heart arrives , etc . etc . etc . are such breaches of surgical rules that even the casual viewer of TV medical dramas knows . But the real problem with the script is that we are left caring very little for any of the characters , despite the fact the roles are assigned to some heavy hitters ! Sadly , the movie is just silly . Grady Harp
Pass on this Takeoff on Horror Films	Jason Paul Collum both wrote and directed this little film that resembles a gay ' Fatal Attraction ' without the benefit of a tight script , good actors , suspense , or sophisticated effects and camera work . Sadly it boils down to a fifteen-minute story spread out over an almost interminable 2 hours . The story involves on Corin ( Sean Michael Lambrecht ) , a 30-year old ad exec in a five-year bumpy relationship with 23-year old party boy Jake ( Jeff Dylan Graham ) . Corin's boss and friend Nancy ( Brinke Stevens ) understands Corin all too well , appreciates his relationship , but in attempting to relieve his work duties hires an assistant Elliot ( Jerod Howard ) , a gender confused nerdy lad who is engaged to his lifelong chum Marti ( Tina Ona Paukstelis ) in a push from his mother ( Judith O'Dea ) to make things ' right ' . Elliot is befriended by Corin , brought into Corin's and Jake's friendship , and Elliot and Marti and Corin and Jake begin socializing . Elliot falls for Corin , comes out of the closet to the extreme dismay of Marti and his mother , and despite Elliot's friendship with Corin and Jake , he begins to stalk Corin . Corin's rebuff of his advances leads to disaster and the film tumbles downhill from there . Yes , some may view this weak little foray as being full of statements about love , obsession , relationships , and friendships , but all of that has been said far better before and without the seemingly tacked on genre of a horror film . The acting from the women in the film is good , but the men are blunted stereotypes . Everything about the film screams low budget . One annoying factor - a music score that sounds like lessons on electronic keyboards and obscures a lot of the dialogue - turns out to be a blessing in that the weak script is covered frequently . Most viewers will utilize the fast forward button to get through the repetitious dialogue and race for the end , a predictable , stagy tableaux that really doesn't resolve anything . Not worth two hours of your viewing time .
Perhaps if you like American Idol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	American DREAMZ is a pitiful mess of a movie , a film that seems as though it wants to be a satire on the Bush administration , on talk show hosts , and on our current state of mindless entertainment that seems to keep high ratings and low IQs neck and neck . The story , what little there is , involves a bored talent show host ( Hugh Grant , who looks very down in the tooth ) desperate to get out of his mindless role , and hungry for people who are over the edge to come on his popular show and make fools of themselves . He manages to accomplish this from some rather innocent folks as well as the President of the United States ( GWB imitator Dennis Quaid , Laura Bush imitator Marcia Gay Harden , and Cheney imitator Willem Dafoe ) . Along the way we meet some fragments of characters portrayed by some fine actors who bought into this venture belonging to Paul Weitz for some unknown reason : Mandy Moore , Jennifer Coolidge , a promising Sam Golzari , Chris Klein , Seth Meyers , and Shohreh Aghdashloo . Satire can be one of the finest forms of art , but it requires a very intelligent script . That missing element is what drives this very unfunny carcass into the dumpster ! Grady Harp
' In Camera "	THE MEMORY KEEPER'S DAUGHTER in the form of a novel by Kim Edwards was a highly successful bestseller and probably was featured in more reading groups than any other novel during its circulation . So what happened when the novel became a made-for-television movie ? Perhaps it is the below mediocre screenplay ( oops ! , teleplay ! ) by John Pielmeier that consistently galumphs along in an awkward pedestrian fashion removing all sense of credibility to the story . Perhaps it is the cut and paste direction by Mick Jackson that misses the pacing and character delineation . Perhaps it suffers from the cinematography of an uncredited source or the ' liquid tears ' musical score by Daniel Licht . For whatever of these ( or all of these ) reasons , this novel-to-film survives because it does make a good case for educating the public about the capabilities of those born with Down Syndrome . And for that it is worthy of attention . Dr . David Henry ( Dermot Mulroney ) , a successful orthopedic doctor , is married to the beautiful Norah ( Gretchen Mol ) and their lives are becoming changed by their pregnancy . On a stormy winter night in Kentucky Norah goes into labor and the Henry's rush to a nearby clinic where David delivers his wife ( the doctor is caught in a snowstorm ) with the assistance of his old friend , nurse Caroline Gill ( Emily Watson ) . After the delivery of a perfect boy child ( Paul ) Norah continues to be in labor and ( surprisingly . . . ) delivers an unexpected ( ! ) twin girl . David and Caroline immediately recognize that the little girl ( Phoebe ) is a ' mongoloid ' ( this is before the use of the term Down Syndrome ) and David , having a history of losing a little sister because of a birth defect ) decides to send Phoebe to an asylum for the mentally challenged : Caroline is to make the delivery and Norah is told the second twin died at birth . Caroline follows instructions , sees the conditions of the ' home ' where Phoebe is to be deposited , shrinks in horror , and decides to keep the child . Aided by a friendly trucker , Caroline changes her solitary existence and mothers Phoebe , finding a new life in her trucker's Pittsburgh . Norah insists on a formal funeral for Phoebe - a fact that deeply disturbs David's psyche , and the Henry's life goes on with only the one child Paul , leaving submerged pains about the lack of Phoebe's presence . Norah gifts David with a camera ( ' peoples lives are like a camera , that's where they live - in a room captured by a moment ' ) and David becomes obsessed with photography . Norah grieves , drinks , and loses David's attention , while David traces Phoebe's existence with Caroline - sending money and letters to Pittsburgh . Paul ( Tyler Stentiford to Jamie Spilchuk ) grows up , discovers his mother's infidelities and is angered about his father's lack of communication and understanding , and decides to fulfill his goal of becoming a musician , and off to Juilliard he goes . Meanwhile Phoebe ( Krystal Hope Nausbaum ) has matured into a very highly adapted young girl , and the manner in which the broken marriage of the Henrys happens and the healing atmosphere of Phoebe's and Paul's lives coupled with the courage that has supported Caroline Gill's struggle to gain acceptance in the world for those born with Down Syndrome forms the conclusion of the film . The cast of well-known actors tries hard , but only Emily Watson is able to resurrect a credible character from this squishy script . Jamie Spilchuk gives evidence of a young actor with much promise . Dermot Mulroney and Gretchen find it difficult to mold empathetic characters form the corny lines they are given to deliver . The film is a mess , but the message about acceptance of Down Syndrome children and adults is an important one . Grady Harp
" I'm going to tell you about the last seven days of my life "	When a film begins with a statement like this from the main character , it usually means that a biopic about a terminally ill patient is coming or that the director wants to make it clear that you're in for a downer . In IT'S ALL ABOUT LOVE it is clearly the second alternative . One has the feeling that Thomas Vinterberg and writer Mogens Rukov had in mind to make some visceral musings on the future of the planet given the current state of abuse of the environment and human relations , but the result is a convoluted mess of an admixture of infantile script and plodding camera work and silly character non-development that is more of a bore than a sociological / psychological / environmentalist wake-up call . Year : 2021 though costumes , cars , technology are very much 2005 . The TV Big Brother ( newscasters ) are calmly reporting that Uganda is freezing , that countries in Africa are loosing gravitational pull , and everywhere in the world people are dying in the streets ( merely stepped over by pedestrians ) from a disease of the heart : the heart ailment etiology is apparently the lack of love and caring and commitment and relationships that have become extinct in this purely industrial society . Enter John Marchevski ( Joaquin Phoenix ) returning to New York for a quick stopover to have his divorce papers signed by his estranged star ice skater wife Elena ( Claire Danes ) . But when he arrives in New York he is picked up by men who claim he must go to see Elena as she has a premiere that evening and couldn't meet him at the airport . Reluctantly John goes along with this ( largely abetted by encouragement from his brother Marciello - Sean Penn - who maintains telephone conversation with him while flying in a weird jet ( despite his past fear of flying ) . To make it brief , Elena has been cloned by the agents who manage her star career and have tied this into her family including her father David ( Alun Armstrong ) and brother Michael ( Douglas Henshall ) . Elena senses all is not right , pleads with John to help her and eventually they escape on the run from the ' bad guys ' . Oddly it begins snowing in July , John and Elena discover her clones skating and watch them murdered , and suddenly we're in a vast tundra of frozen land with John and Elena dancing while Michael informs them the ' association ' had him sell them out in order for him to survive and Marciello just keeps writing about the world and chatting from his big impaired jet plane trapped in the sky for lack of landing fields and the Africans float up into the air etc etc etc . Yes , it really is that silly . There are some interesting panoramas courtesy of cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle and there remains the underlying suspicion that perhaps the film has something to say but just can't decide how to say it . The use of Joaquin Phoenix , Claire Danes , and Sean Penn is a waste of talent and it remains a serious question as to why they signed on to be a part of this film . Maybe the good parts are on the cutting room floor . . . Grady Harp
' Funny ' as in ' Strange ' , NOT as in ' Ha-Ha '	FUNNY GAMES is Michael Haneke's English language remake of his own German success from 1997 by the same name . While is takes some interesting twist and turns as far as technique of film-making goes , the story lies somewhere between repulsive and prolonged boring , and is not a film this viewer would watch again . We first meet Ann ( Naomi Watts ) , husband George ( Tim Roth ) , and son Georgie ( Devon Gearhart ) as they drive to their vacation spot playing games of guessing arias and opera singer identities from CDs in their car . But immediately on arriving to their lakeside home they are visited by a strange young lad Peter ( Brady Corbet ) who asks to borrow eggs for their next-door neighbor . Soon Peter's mishaps are magnified when his friend Paul ( Michael Pitt ) joins him in a rather preposterous game of arguing over trite situations that result in Peter and Paul ( malignantly sterile in appearance in white shorts and shirts and gloves ) moving into the ' funny games ' that are aimed at total destruction of Ann , George and Georgie . It is not funny , it is not credible , and yes , it does become annoying in the manner in which the writing for Ann and George makes them into fools for going along with the ' games ' as long as they do . Watts and Roth are wasted in this film but Pitt and Corbet manage performances that kick us in the gut - as these oily creatures are meant to do . Not a film to be recommended for general viewing , but one that will please those who love the torture genre . Grady Harp ,
Unsuccessful Attempt to Update Henry James ' Classic Novella	Hollywood is fond of updating classic tales : Shakespeare is the author most often reconfigured , at times with great success , at times not . The intellectually stimulating works of Henry James have been brought to the screen and making visual the inherently cerebral stories come to life . Such , sadly , is not the case for IN A DARK PLACE , a warping and distorted ' update ' of one of the finest ghost stories ever written - James ' 1898 TURN OF THE SCREW . Screenwriter Peter Waddington adapted the story to place in our faces fully realized interpretations of what James used as suggestion : James realized that the reader's mind could infuse his story with personal demons that would replace the need for detailed description . Cases in point : the Governess is here an art teacher given a name , Anna Veigh ; the occult sexual overtones of the story are played out in full view leaving little to the frightening aspects of James ' intentions ; the concentration of the story on the governess ' mental fragility is forced into clichés and placed in the hands of an actress unable to be subtle ; the ' interiority ' of the mansion is replaced by equal time outside on the snowy grounds ( opening up the story , so they say ) , etc . The story is well known , having been adapted successfully before by television , movies , and opera ( Benjamin Britten's immensely well written opera TURN OF THE SCREW ) . Anna Veigh ( Leelee Sobieski ) is the art therapist turned governess who upon losing her job is hired to care for the children Flora ( Gabrielle Adam ) and Miles ( Christian Olson ) in a now deserted mansion whose only other occupant is the secretary / estate manager Ms . Grose ( Tara Fitzgerald ) . Soon enough Anna discovers that the previous governess Miss Jessel ( another art therapist who was three months pregnant ) was found dead in the lake , and that the prior male butler Peter Quint hanged himself . Anna alone begins to see the ghosts of these newly departed servants , and when she explores the reasons with Ms . Grose we discover the Ms . Grose was in love with Miss Jessel and hated Peter Quint . Anna is frequently visited by nightmares of her own sexual abuse as a young girl and transfers these fears onto Flora and Miles , feeling that they were similarly abused - an explanation for their bizarre behavior patterns . Ms . Grose acts out her sexuality with Anna , confusing Anna even more , and stressing her vulnerable psyche into thinking she can exorcise the demons of the house . And the ending will surprise us all ! Director Donato Rotunno needs to re-read the James novella and rely on the audience's intelligence more than to alter the story to become faddist and frank instead of subtle and suspenseful . A major problem with the casting is the far too frequently physically exposed Leelee Sobieski : it feels as though she is reading her rather pedestrian lines from a cue card off camera . It is a sad imitation of the governess . Tara Fitzgerald's Ms . Grose is not the obese , matronly of the original , but instead a very svelte and seductive woman : she succeeds in creating a credible alternative figure very well . The setting and photography are fine , but the musical score by Adam Pendse is a pedestrian mix of incongruous styles . In short , if you are a fan of Henry James , avoid this sloppy work . But then , if Leelee Sobieski is a favorite , then you see more of her as a grown woman than you probably will ever see again ! Not Recommended . Grady Harp
A Committed Cast Salvages Rent	Having seen RENT on the stage with the eardrum assaulting , miked sound from each performer's head mike coupled with the small but deadly ' pit band ' this viewer rented this film with trepidation . And after paying close attention to the transfer of the play to the screen little has change in feelings about this work . Loosely based on Puccini's ' La Boheme ' ( with some direct quotes in the score ) this musical drama has much to say about AIDS , kids as artists , survival , all forms of gay life , extended family - many subjects that make it worthy of production . The cast performs extremely well from the opening ' Chorus Line ' takeoff through the intimate and blaring production numbers . The pacing is excellent , the cinematography is good , the mood is right . So why the three star rating ? For this viewer / listener the score is so thread bare and trite that it is difficult to understand why it has attracted such huge success . There is one song ( which opens the show ) and otherwise the rest of the score melts into an indistinguishable mélange of repetition . The cast carries it off admirably , but at the end of the work the impact is more in the idea than the execution . Overrated . Grady Harp , February 06
Low Expectations , Better Results	Watching TRUTH ABOUT LOVE ( is this a double entendre about the star ? ) is like plugging in white noise or manufactured water sounds to help you sleep - you put it in the DVD slot because there is nothing else left on the store shelves and you are in need of distraction after a hectic day . And it works for that for that purpose : being a British romantic comedy it is a bit more . The story is a rather simple one about a wife Alice ( Jennifer Love Hewitt ) married to an increasingly distant husband Sam ( Jimi Mistry ) who has put their love life on hold due to the burdens of his busy law practice . His partner Archie ( Dougray Scott ) is fond of both Sam and Alice , but has a longtime attraction to Alice that goes beyond friendship . Alice pals with her sister Felicity ( Kate Miles ) , a free love advocate , who encourages Alice to have affairs . On Valentine's Day , after a drinking binge with her sister , Alice mails a card to Sam signed ' Anonymous ' as a test to see if Sam responds , testing his fidelity . At the same time Archie mails a radish seed packet to Alice on which he has inscribed a suggestive love not . Both have ex post facto regrets . Sam in fact is spending time with a lover Katya ( Branka Katic ) and is indeed cheating on Alice . Alice arranges assignations with Sam via email and phone calls and plans to meet Sam in disguise as ' Anonymous ' to test his fidelity . The entire cast of characters gets caught up in the silly charade and the ending proves that real love must be based on truth - and how that results in the various pairings is the surprise ( of sorts ) of the fluffy script . British comedies work because of the quality of writing and the tight quality of acting . Perhaps had director John Hay elected to cast a British actress as Alice instead of pasting a phony accent on Jennifer Love Hewitt the result may have been improved . But in the end this story by Peter Bloore bounces between mildly humorous and pathetic in its messages . One terrible distraction is a musical score that is consistently so loud that it covers all the dialogue and is intrusive . There are some nice scenes of London and a few moments of passable humor , but in the end this little film is truly best utilized as background music / white noise . Grady Harp
The Poseidon Sinks Under Its Own Over-Produced Weight	Summer pickings for movies this year is amazingly slim , explaining why perhaps more people are being drawn to the DVD release of Wolfgang Peterson's clunker POSEIDON that the quality of the product deserves . Probably the temptation of the state of the art CGI effects positioned Peterson into ' recreating ' the 1972 thriller , but sadly the result is a heavy mess of special effects with little attention paid to the characters who should be ' driving the boat ' into a story . After a scant few poorly written minutes that introduce the passengers and crew who are to provide the emotional interest in the story ( Kurt Russell , Josh Lucas , Richard Dreyfuss , Freddy Rodríguez , Andre Braugher , Kevin Dillon , Jacinda Barrett , Emmy Rossum , Mike Vogel , Mía Maestro , etc - stereotypes all ) , up comes the ' rogue wave ' and the ships turns upside down leaving the remainder of the film focused on how to get out of the trapped bubble . For about fifteen minutes it works then all becomes redundant and the ending matches the desire of the tired audience - the sinking . Why with so many fine stories to tell and new concepts to explore Hollywood continues to exhume old movies to remake is a puzzle . Perhaps that is why the film industry is having tough times these days . A movie for those who love special effects without an interfering story .
Thin Thread of a Story for what appears to be Brazilian Travelogue	' Saudade - Sehnsucht ' ( THE LONGING ) is a film by writer / director Jürgen Brüning who seems to have taken a vacation from Germany to Brazil with some friends and decided to make a movie as a means of entertainment . This film is less about characters and story development than it is about Brazilian beaches , snorkeling , fish butchering , second-rate pop music , and food . Ostensibly we find three friends who've had a rock band in Germany on vacation in Brazil : Cyrus ( Tarik Qazi ) is interested in finding his Brazilian mother ; Tim ( Daniel Bätscher ) remains determined to explore a new music sound ; Erik ( eye candy hunk Hendrik Scheider ) wants to find love . The three finance their excursion by making daily film clips of body contact to use on the internet dating business . Their housekeepers Maria ( Maria Lucia da Silva Ludwig ) and Angela ( Marilza da Cruz Pinto Gregião ) feed their interests as well as their appetites . Most of their time is spent in clubs and at the beaches , pursuing little but opportunism . Erik has a tryst on the sand with a Brazilian man one night that ends in a death that sours his desire . When another attractive Brazilian lad Miguel ( Aldri Anunciação ) catches Erik's eye the two begin a struggle for a relationship , but Erik's previous encounter colors his ability to find happiness . The actors are all attractive and given the fact that they have little to do but look alluring manage to make the film tolerable . But in the end the movie feels too self indulgent to satisfy any audience member . It is a piece of fluff disguised as a soap opera . Grady Harp
A Suspenseless Suspense Movie	SHATTERED ( also known as BUTTERFLY ON A WHEEL ) is one of those films that starts out with a solid cast of highly respected actors to pull audiences in and then proceeds to squander talent in a script that should be still on the reject shelf . The film has all the markings and big budget of a major Hollywood money maker , but there is a very valid reason why the theatrical run was brief and unheralded , sending the movie to television and to DVD post haste : it just is a very weak work . Writer William Morrissey had a thought , camouflaged behind the meaning of an obscure line from Pope ( ' butterfly on a wheel ' ) that refers to the degree of torture one can take before breaking . The problem is that this tale of the consequences of infidelity has been done many , many times before with far better results . The astute viewer will find all the cracks in the plot line of this supposed ' startling thriller ' from the first few frames : watching suspicions play out is very anticlimactic . Morrissey depends on what he imaged as a ' big surprise ' ending and it just doesn't surprise ! Gerard Butler , Maria Bello , and Pierce Brosnan are all strong actors and one wonders why they opted to participate in this movie . It is not the best work of any of the three , trying to make credible characters out of the double-sided puzzle : kidnapping , testing of relationships , facing consequences of behavior . Director Mike Barker lets the drama sag when it most needs to be pushed . Unless the viewer just wants to see more of the three stars ( even in a weak film ) then that is the justification for sitting through this . Otherwise , pass . . . Grady Harp
For Lovers of Violence Only	WAR sets up the viewer with promises ( Jason Statham , Jet Li in his first movie as a straight actor i . e . post-martial arts ) , but for the most part those promises are not delivered . What is put on the screen for what seems like an endless evening is more killing with guns , knives , fire , explosions , and every other kind of death device imaginable delivered by minimal story and substandard acting . It is loud , gory , and boring - until the final few minutes when the story actually gains a plot . Lee Anthony Smith and Gregory J . Bradley came up with a minimal tale taking place in San Francisco , a rivalry between a Chinese gang and a Japanese gang , peppered by revenge , contraband goods , and a hefty dose of non-balletic fighting . Jason Statham sleepwalks his way through his role as FBI agent Jack Crawford with an attitude and a grudge , assisted by his partner Special Agent Wick ( given a nice turn by Mathew St . Patrick of ' Six Feet Under ' ) and Benny ( the always fine character actor Luis Guzmán , even here ! ) . The head of the wealthy Chang gang ( John Lone of ' The Last Emperor ' ) is obtaining a prize antiquity from Japan's Shiro Yanagawa ( Ryo Ishibashi ) and gang and Rogue ( Jet Li ) is the agent . After what seems like hours of car chases , motorcycle chases , constant killing , beheadings , sleazy tearoom scenes , etc the identity of the Rogue ( apparently much changed by multiple plastic surgeons who likewise loose their lives . . . ) is made clear - a fact that provides some answers to Agent Jack's grumpy personality . This is a film without a core and one that is easy to understand its box office failure . And unless the viewer is in need of a 103 minutes of steady violence , this film is a must miss - even for fans of Statham and Li . Grady Harp ,
An Idea That Never Takes Flight	THE UNTOUCHABLE requires patience on the part of the viewer - patience to stay with this sullen , dark and clunky film to the end only to discover the wait was not worth the patience ! Writer / director Benoît Jacquot had a good idea : trace the search for a biological father to a country foreign to the seeker . What results instead of a journey of self-discovery is a travelogue to India as captured by a hand held camera with what appears to be a minuscule budget . Jeanne ( Isild Le Besco ) discovers on her eighteenth birthday that her mother ( Bérangère Bonvoisin ) conceived her on the banks of the Ganges River in India with an Indian man who remains unknown . Furious at her mother's secret and feeling the profound need to connect with her biological father , Jeanne , an actress , leaves her acting workshop to make a racy film in order to make enough money to travel to India . Once in India she searches for traces of her father without success . But the search is not without some interest for the viewer : the hand held camera that follows her through the airport and the countryside and to Benares ( that city by the Ganges where the dead are cremated in elaborate fashion and the living bathe in the waters of the holy river ) . She gathers clues as to her father's identity from friendly strangers , but alas , the riddle remains unsolved . Isild Le Besco is in practically every frame of this film and she indeed is an interesting actress to watch . But the lack of intelligent dialogue prevents this film from revealing motivations or character development , opting instead for a static ( and rather poorly edited and scored ) glance at the mysteries of India . For those interested in watching in detail the preparation of bodies for cremation and the slow act of that ritual , this is a film worth watching . For the casual viewer it is tedious . Grady Harp
My Dinner with Ennui	Wallace Shawn wrote the very fine ' My Dinner with Andre ' , a talky but sensitive film that created a niche for conversational stories without plot . Sadly the qualities of that play to film result did not make it with his MARIE AND BRUCE . On paper it looks as though this strenuously boring film should be worth watching : Shawn's previous credentials , the direction by Tom Cairns , and the presence of Julianne Moore and Matthew Broderick together with little feature appearances by the likes of Campbell Scott and Blossom Dearie should suggest investing time in viewing . Unfortunately the film's premise is so dull that even the technique of having characters speak exactly what is in their minds mixed with dialogue seemingly more appropriate for human ears and adding dreamlike sequences including some rather randy voyeurism - stage worthy though these techniques may be - just can't make this dreary story of a day in the dissolution of a VERY bad marriage work . The only character in the film with whom the viewer can empathize is a friendly dog . Pass on this sad flop . Grady Harp
A Documentary with Embellishments the Wears Out its Welcome	For the first fifteen minutes the story of NAKED FAME is interesting : two late thirties male porn stars in a seemingly healthy relationship decide to leave the Porn industry and try for the world of singing and acting . The two very buff and preening men are Colton Ford and Blake Harper . With the aid of Kevin Aviance and Marc Berkely , Colton makes a dance track that is then marketed in New York with the hopes that Colton Ford will become an instant star - a unique disco singer touting his background as a Porn Star for PR . The remainder of the film is grumbling and in-fighting and commentary by Porn Producer ChiChi LaRue and the film slowly sinks into repetition and doldrums . Not a bad idea for a film if there were a bit more depth revealed in each character's drive to move away form a successful career ( though one greatly influenced by the youth both characters have lost ) into an alternative one . It is just that a one-note song wears thin quickly . Grady Harp , November 05
Formulaic Survey of Loopy Relationships	TRUST THE MAN is a director and a scriptwriter ( Bart Freundlich ) looking for a reason to justify this shallow , ill conceived , and ultimately boring movie . Supposedly we are to examine role reversal in modern marriages and the rise of the feminist to the head of the household . This is about stay at home dads , successful working moms , varying physical and psychological needs , failure to commit guys , and approaching the end of fertility zone women - and each of the four characters in the film try to make us care about their plights but just can't get past the clumsy script . The cast is as fine as could be assembled to try to make this story matter : Julianne Moore with David Duchovny , Maggie Gyllenhaal with Billy Crudup , and such ' extras ' as Garry Shandling , Sarah Knowlton , Dagmara Dominczyk and Justin Bartha . The four leads are always a pleasure to watch , even in a poor film , but put naive lines in their mouths and we just cringe . The ending is chicken soup without the healing factor . In the end this is a film to watch only for the leads : maybe turn off the sound . . . ? Grady Harp
Parody and what it is not	Joe Castro wrote and directed THE YOUNG , THE GAY AND THE RESTLESS with an obvious attempt to make us giggle at just how preposterous the daytime TV soaps are . In many ways he manages to show us that madness : quick scenes between characters that flash on and off the screen in seconds with only a few lines delivered to make room for the next split second vignette suggestive of commercial breaks ; actors that are attractive despite being unable to demonstrate even the basics of the art of acting ; situations so over the top that they require one-ups-manship in the next moment to keep the plot from sinking into the absurd . The plot is simple : a dying unpopular mother Victoria Gaylord ( Ms . Elliott is the actor's moniker ) is wealthy , married to a lecherous Francis Gaylord ( Joe Haggerty ) , and has a wild group of children of questionable heritage - Cynthia ( Holly Karrol Clark ) and her narcissistic husband Phillip ( Caleb Campbell ) , Nicholas ( Justin Marchert ) who has his gay eye on Phillip , Josh ( Jeremy Dubois ) etc . all of whom have an eye on Victoria's fortune . The Gaylord house is filled with party fixings and among the decorations are the topless butler and his entourage of would be assignations - Damien Christopher , Michael Oliviera , Dennis Richardson , and Kerry Liu . The ' good doctor ' Dr Bender ( Buck Davis ) is called along with his nurse / illegitimate child / fortune hunter ( Chris Brown ) and the many secrets of this absurd family all surface with the subsequent murder , brain transplant , ménage a quatre . . . it just goes on and on . Parody on the order of , say , Gilbert and Sullivan can be witty , acerbic , naughty , and very intelligent . Castro seems to have written this little bit of treacle in an evening , called in his friends and neighbors to pose and read lines with the emphasis on exaggeration , and quickly turned out a movie for public consumption . Unfortunately the mixture ( though a good idea ) just doesn't work . One ' good ' but still annoying aspect of the film is the presence of a music score obviously added in the editing room at a level that covers the lines so that they are inaudible : that is a mixed blessing . This is a film for the curious viewer who has a lot of patience and easy laugh quotient . Grady Harp
Starts Nowhere and Continues on that Path	Irving Schwartz , lighten up ! As writer and director of this strange little movie he seems to have a weird perception of the world himself . There is a limit to the punishingly sad story lines that can make it to film and this one clearly falls into that category . Jen ( Piper Perabo ) is a funky , grossly outfitted bleach blond who has returned home from Los Angles to care for her emotionally disturbed parents ( Mark Dobies and Mary Beth Hurt ) but she seems to outdo any manifestation of their mental abnormalities . She is stuck in a meaningless relationship with a female animal activist ( Heather Burns ) and trying to stave off her ex-boyfriend ( Seth Meyers ) while walking among friends like Aunjanue Ellis , a druggie , Ajay Naidu , a Pakistani importer , and a cop Nick Scotti . She is struck by a truck and becomes paralyzed and seems to want to get a grip on her life , but her ' friends ' don't go along . To say more would waste what little interest there is to glean from this tale . Those who have followed Piper Perabo's career may be hoping that this starring role may offer her the chance for a jump-start . Sadly the script and atmosphere are so lacking that this film is probably one she will choose to not list on her resume . Grady Harp
Disintegration of lives loosely connected	The original title of this bleak film - WHEN A MAN FALLS IN THE FOREST - was inexplicably shortened to the nebulous WHEN A MAN FALLS for the release of the DVD : had the original title been retained , the audience may have been given a clue as to the intended message of the story . This is the second film for 26-year old writer / director Ryan Eslinger and it does suggest that he wants to deal with some existential material , but he has a way to grow into how to make it happen . The lives of three men and a woman are interconnected in the all too common shallow ' relationships ' that are a major problem in how our society is working . Bill ( Dylan Baker ) is a night janitor in a large company , a man who shuts out the boring world with his earphones connected to the great opera classics : he avoids people including those who saunter past him and those whose chaotic lives in the next door apartment distress him . Gary Fields ( Timothy Hutton ) is a down and out professional man who works in the building that Bill nocturnally keeps tidy , the two ' old high school acquaintances ' meeting only because Gary has taken to sleeping in the office . Gary's wife Karen ( Sharon Stone , without makeup and looking spent and used ) has lost all feeling for living , detests Gary , and finds her only joy is in shoplifting . Gary has shut himself off from old friends for reasons that seem to be related to an accident that involved is best friend Travis ( Pruitt Taylor Vince ) , a man at odds with his own environment . The only apparent connection here is that , once Gary discovers that Bill is a night janitor , Gary and Travis feel guilty that their response to Bill in high school had been one of cruel ridicule . Each of the four main characters wanders aimlessly through a world that has become strange and vindictive and it is only a bizarre incident that throws the quartet into some semblance of meaning . Each person has fallen , but since they are in the midst of a lonely ' forest ' , has anyone noticed or cared ? This could be a study in personal tragedy were it done better , but despite the fine credentials of the actors , the script is so full of holes that character development suffers and what results is not unlike watching an injured bull struggling around a bullfight ring as the crowd attends to the matador et al . Sadly we just don't care about these damaged people , making connection with the film next to impossible . Maybe next film . . . Grady Harp
Tired and Trite Story only partially saved by Carice van Houten	There are two reasons to rent this DVD : Carice van Houten who is becoming one of the finest actresses on the screen today and the scenery of Ireland . Otherwise this tedious and silly ' thriller ' is a tired unimaginative rehash of all of the previous movies about multiple personality disorders such as The Three Faces of Eve , Sybil , etc that are so superior to this story written by Juliette Sales and writer / director Agnès Merlet . Apparently hoping to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear , director Merlet places her story on an Island off Ireland populated with a sick group of folks who protect the strange secrets of the title character Dorothy Mills ( Jenn Murray ) . Needing to explore her own demons , a Dublin psychiatrist Dr Jane Van Dopp ( van Houten ) gains the assignment to explore the strange case of Mills and her history . In a series of flashbacks and inane reenactments of incidents , the truths behind the island's strange inhabitants , Dorothy Mills , and Dr Jane Van Doop come forward . The ending has a twist but not one that justifies the dull story that requires a large amount of patience on the part of the viewer . Pass on this one . Grady Harp
Only If You Love Venice . . .	Mike Figgis makes a supersized attempt to be artsy in this meandering film . The problem is that the story is so flat because there is no one about whom we can care . After the first confusing messy thirty minutes ( John Malkovich sitting behind prison bars at a dinner table for no apparent reason other than to offer insipid dialogue to an uncaring dinner guest list ) , I decided to just look at the screen for the color and the wild camera work . Venice looks great but the stodgy staging of ' The Duchess of Malfi ' and the weak plot associated with it doesn't even begin to cover the creaks in this silly film . This one is only for the Figgis fans out there - and for Venice addicts who will put up with about anything to just ' feel ' the Venetian glow . A Must Miss . Grady Harp , August 05
Enough Already !	THE BREAK UP is one of those tiresome ' comedies ' that Hollywood grinds out on the basis of star power . In this case the star power begins with a story written by Vince Vaughn ( along with Jeremy Garelick and Jay Lavender ) , suffused with the same Vince Vaughn that is the ' character ' for all his films , and the DVD ends with an extended loquacious justification for the film given by - who else ? - Vince Vaughn . It is as tedious and boring as the actor himself , though legions of fans of potty mouth slapstick over-the-top loud-mouthed ' humor ' will doubtless disagree . Peyton Reed was brought in to control the overacting of the Vaughn character and actually is able to allow the other actors in this tired story a chance to shine . The story itself ? Vaughn and the superb and beautiful Jennifer Anniston meet clumsily at a Chicago Cubs baseball game where Vaughn introduces the overbearing obnoxious beast that he is in the first few minutes of the ' courtship ' . The courtship and marriage of these two people is contained in snapshots during the credits , sparing us form that extended episode . When the film actually begins we are already in the midst of a relationship on the skids : Vaughn ( a bus tour guide for Chicago with his two brothers Cole Hauser and Vincent D'Onofrio ) and Anniston ( an art gallery person working for the kinky and fabulous Judy Davis ) live in an elegant condominium which becomes the landing pad for a breakup of their tenuous marriage . It is a case of who can out gross who , all the while supported by mutual and individual friends . Anniston wants to feel appreciated ; Vaughn is insensitive and irresponsibly immature . How it works out is the only good thing about he film : it doesn't ! There are some fine little cameos for folks like Joey Lauren Adams , Jon Favreau , the above mentioned Judy Davis , Jason Bateman , Justin Long , Ann-Margret etc and they do what they can to add a bit of lustre to this venture , but it is the tedium of watching fighting between two people for 105 minutes that drags the picture down . The reason for 3 stars ? Jennifer Anniston who continues to prove she can overcome almost any bad script and make it watchable . Grady Harp
And for those interested in campy parodies . . . .	then here is a little VERY low budget film that barely reaches the tolerable level for most , but for those who delight in over-the-top spoofs , it may just appeal . One wonders just how these ' Bollywood ' spoofs escape criticism from the fine film makers that come out of India ( Deepa Mehta's trilogy , for example ) , but then most of them are made in India and are actually throwbacks to the heyday cinematic musicals of the 1940s . BOLLYWOOD AND VINE follows the contrived idea that a young Indian wannabe film maker named Bhuvan Bannerji ( Jamey Schrick ) drives a tourist bus into the Hollywood Hills where lives an old actress of horror movies , one Delilah Leigh ( Skye Aubrey , the only professional actress in the film and one whose credits date back to 1967 ) who lives on poverty's edge with her gay son Devin ( J . R . Jones ) . Delilah hasn't worked in years , lives as a recluse , and when Bhuvan mistakes Devin ( in complete drag ) for Delilah he leaves a script at her doorstep . A charade begins , with Bhuvan's bad script seems to be a ticket to money if Devin can convince him he is able to carry the role in Bhuvan's home of Bombay - a Bollywood movie . Delilah and Devin vie for stardom , Delilah locks the boys in the attic to nurture Devin's need for a relationship , Bhuvan rebels , attempts escape , and the trio become caught up in an accidental death of a snoopy wannabe star neighbor ( Trish Dempsey ) . Of course they are caught and the ending just gets so silly that it is groanfully bad . The saving grace of the film is that it doesn't take itself seriously . The script has some funny lines sparingly dropped here and there and the cast seems to be having a great time with the comedy . This is a tough film to classify : it has gay themes but very little in the way of gay plot - except for the camp . This is one of those ' loving hands at home ' films that is somewhat salvaged by Skye Aubrey who clearly knows her craft ! Grady Harp
A Silly Tale Used Countless Times Before , but HERE'S Sandra Bullock !	The title of this flimsy little outing of a film from 1992 - LOVE POTION # 9 - should give you an idea of where you're headed if you rent this movie : hackneyed story about two science geeks ( Sandra Bullock and Tate Donovan ) whose experimentation with a ' love potion ' obtained from a gypsy ( Anne Bancroft playing Anne Bancroft ) has kick back effects which all end up in a love story of sorts . The reason for watching this little effort is to see one of Sandra Bullock's early forays into comedy ( she actually started making things like this in 1987 but this film drew enough attention to get her into ' Speed ' two years later , that famous launching pad for Bullock and Keanu Reeves ) . Aside from Bullock and Bancroft the remainder of the cast is forgettable as is the story . . . but it is a lot better than many of the similar flicks on the shelves right now . Grady Harp
The Impossible Dream Meets Over the Rainbow	When film credits don't include the writer / s names , problems can be expected . This little candy-coated attempt to explore how ' dreams really do come true ' is more a music video than a full fledged film , a project where obviously the money was spent on the graphics of the opening credits and the staged musical numbers rather than on the script . This is not a bad movie : it is just predictably trite and places lines in the mouths of some very fine actors that must have been an embarrassment to speak . Antonio ( John Leguizamo , with lots of hair and none of his expected comedic edge ) is a Mexican immigrant who lands in Los Angeles with his grandfather's philosophy to follow that dream ( ' Sueño ' ) and believes he will find his major career in his music . Reality sets in immediately as he is forced to work in his uncle's Taco Stand and play his guitar and sing in sleazy deadbeat nightclubs . He meets a customer Nina ( Ana Claudia Talancón ) who dreams of becoming a veterinarian but is committed to caring for her ailing papa ( Winston J . Rocha ) . Despite sweet Antonio's attempts to woo her , she remains adamant that she must devote her life to caring for papa . Next door to Anthony the apartment is occupied by Mirabella ( Elizabeth Peña ) , a newly divorced , middle-aged pudgy ex-singer who does housekeeping and laundry to support her children while she dreams of once again becoming a star vocalist : again the heart of gold Antonio befriends her , hears her sing and insists she has great talent . Antonio is encouraged by a good-hearted ' manager ' Rafael ( Jsu Garcia ) and is paired with three other musicians to form a group El Gran Colectivo with the hesitant Mirabella as vocalist . There is the requisite Music Group Competition where against all odds the group competes out of faith and devotion to each other and the old type of music . That everyone's dream comes true is no surprise at all : the plot is so thin that the audience knows from the start how everything will resolve ' in a land where troubles melt like lemon drops . . . ' . The idea is sweet , the message is wholesome , and the strong cast does everything it can with the treacle of a script hampering them . But unless you have an appetite for candy and can wait for the occasional surrealism of the dream sequences , this venture may just put you in sugar overload . Grady Harp
A Wordy , Meandering and Tiresome Diatribe That is Anything BUT a Comedy	As one who loves films that appeal to intellectual sorties as well as those that simply tell stories , this film should have been appealing . But as written and directed by Catherine Breillat who seems to be playing out her own conundrums in film-making experiences , this tedious and talky film fails to arouse interest . The main character Jeanne ( Anne Parillaud ) is the screen form of Breillat , a director frustrated in her attempts to film a convincing sex scene with two difficult actors ( Grégoire Colin is The Actor and Roxane Mesquida is The Actress ) . The one ' comic ' bit is Jeanne's imposing the use of a dildo strapped onto the Actor in order for her to drive the sex scene to fruition , but even this sight gag wears thin quickly and we are left with a film within a film that feels more like a ' Deleted Scenes ' featurette on a DVD than a solid French comedy with class . Grady Harp , August 05
Whew ! Pack away your brain and watch this one for the kids	There are legions of fans of Vin Diesel who would buy a ticket for everything he decided to make - and for good reason : the guy has charisma and screen appeal . But THE PACIFIER is one for only the most devoted Dieselers , those who also have a very high tolerance for the sugarcoated , happy-wappy , Disney flicks that feel as though they were written in an afternoon and shot the next day . Even the writers knew what Vin Diesel fans like and the movie opens with a hint of espionage with Diesel as a Navy Seal up to his action tricks . But soon he is taken out of water and plunged into a household ( the family of the widow of his failed Navy Seal opening mission ) where is uncomfortably cast in the role of babysitter / house mom / inept disciplinarian - you know the oft repeated situation of ' fish out of water ' . The whole thing is rather silly and overplayed and Diesel is a charmer , but a comedian he is not . Once again toward the end the writers have tried to place him in his own comfortable thriller role , but even that melts into Disney goo . Only recommended for those seeking some light sing-songy diversion . Grady Harp
Hidden Subtexts Offered in a Minimalist Film from Beijing	Zi'en Cui is a young cinematic artist producing provocative films in China , and though this venture is not wholly successful , it does show promise of a young filmmaker of cautious bravery . FEEDING BOYS , AYAYA may not be the film the DVD jacket cover suggests , but is a work that informs us of many of the current changes going on in Communist China . Essentially this is a docudrama of sorts : the idea is to follow the day to day routine of of male prostitutes in Beijing , giving insight as to why youths elect to follow this lifestyle . In order to give a feeling of story to the film , Zi'en Cui ( who not only wrote and directed but plays a pivotal role of ' composer ' ) has created a dialogue between two brothers - the older one is a virgin who is complying with the religious concept of forgoing premarital sex with his girlfriend since he is a right wing religious conservative , while the younger brother is planning to embrace the life of male prostitution . The argument for and against chastity and prostitution comprises much of the dialogue : the younger brother wants to feel the needs of the poor lower class boys who enter the city from the provinces to make money in any way they can - ' water always flows downhill ' . The older brother refuses to understand why one would defy caste just for money . Out on the streets and parks of the city the hustlers entertain each other and plan for their clients not only paying for services but also supplying wardrobes . Money ( read ' capitalism ' ) is of paramount importance . They are all constantly challenged by the bible-thumping brother , warning them that ' the end of the world is at hand ' , pleading with them to forego their occupation . The brother hands his role of evangelist to his girlfriend to continue his work . Meanwhile his younger brother embraces the life of a hustler and even brings his clients home to his parent's house for business , and despite the fact that his parents disapprove of the nature of his life , they condone the fact that at least he has a job ! One gets the feeling from the amount of dialogue that goes untranslated in the subtitles that there is a lot more to the movie than what is here outlined . It would be helpful if someone who spoke the language reviewed the film . To this viewer there are some surprising aspects of the film : coming from Communist China it is amazing that there is so much emphasis on Christianity and Capitalism , on social classes in a country whose premise is total social equality ( socialism ) , and a view of the fashion-driven , money conscious activities of the youth . There are many flaws in FEEDING BOYS , AYAYA ( whatever ' ayaya ' means ) : the camera work is pedestrian , the editing is choppy , the flow of the film is confusing , the music borders on ambient noise , the actual life of being a hustler is never truly explored ( unlike the cover photo , the only shadow of sexuality is in over-guarded bathroom scenes of boys showering and brushing teeth ! ) , and the messages of the story are so mixed that it takes much work to follow the threads . Yet given these problems , this viewer came away with some better concept of current life in Beijing - at least from the vantage of social studies . Grady Harp
' And save the best for FIRST '	AVAILABLE MEN is a very mixed bad of short films about gay subjects that very from excellent to weak . Fortunately for the film's success the series opens with the very finest of the shorts , the AVAILABLE MEN of the title . As written and directed by David Dean Bottrell is a takeoff on the standard confused identity story but the film has very funny , snappy dialogue , a quartet of handsome hunks who also happen to act very well ( read professionally ) and the piece just works tightly and seamlessly . The four actors who seem as though they could handle about any role are Brian Gattas , Jack Plotnick , Richard Ruccolo and Kostas Sommer . Watch for these names as they are sure to pop up in bigger films ! As for the other films all are obviously student efforts and should be viewed as such . They have their redeeming graces but stumble for the most part on clumsy scripts , cheap camera work , amateur acting , over the top ideas , and painful lack of substance . They are variably entertaining and some ( as the last extended piece about the gay student body president of a high school ) attempt to make some social statements . But the reason to watch the movie is for the first short ' Available Men . ' It is a winner , and were it by itself the rating for the movie would be considerably higher ! Grady Harp
Examining a First Attempt	Steven Vasquez directed and co-wrote with James Townsend , the star , this strange little drama cum horror flick with evidently very good ideas and intentions : make a gay film that takes a different storyline than the usual fare and make a drama that wants to be judged on its merits as a thriller . So why doesn't it work ? For starters the film loses direction from the opening frame and wanders rather aimlessly throughout the film , dead set on making a suspense thriller but getting sidetracked into satisfying an audience who wants to see nude encounters . Not that that is a bad thing : it can certainly enhance some films that have been Hollywood successes . The film also tries to talk about coming out experiences in young men and women , relationships , disturbed parenting , the club scene with all the wild antics that accompany such events - and murder . It is all a bit much to cram into a 96-minute film . Devon ( James Townsend ) by all appearances is a successful kid with a kind girlfriend Jenna ( Sarah Kelly ) but he has an eye for boys and visits a bar where he meets Brian ( Alex Wilson ) who has been down the same path and can offer Devon assistance on every level . They bond , Devon comes out , and the mysteries begin : boys are missing in the neighborhood , Devon's stepfather psychologist Dr . Kirk Tyler ( Dan Swett ) is not at all what he appears to be and despite Devon's consoling mother Donna ( Sonja Fisher ) Devon is cast into the streets because of his new relationship . It seems Dr Tyler is in a dark business with hunky Detective Cunningham ( Earl McDougle ) who apparently is investigating the missing boys . . . Devon gathers his resources from his understanding girlfriend Jenna and her cronies and together the group unveils the dark doings of Dr . Tyler and his detective sidekick . And through it all Donna radiates warmth and understanding as the perfect mother of a gay boy , etc . Some of the actors are pleasing to the eye ( and there is very little the eye doesn't examine frequently ! ) but the degree of acting is at an all time low . The only thing that makes us forgive that ( and in some cases it is just too poor to forgive ) is the feeling of commitment on the part of everyone involved . Yes , this is a low budget movie and yes , the director needs time to learn his trade . But in the end there is something to be said for the involved people to try to take a gay film to a different level . Maybe their next one will be more polished . Grady Harp
" Intrigue Deal " over $6 / gallon Gas - We're Already Over Halfway There	THE DEAL was made when the idea of paying $6 per gallon of gas would spark international intrigue : now that we're well over $3 . 35 per gallon that price seems less than shocking ! The concept of showing how big business and the government cover up the absurd under the table Deals such as the one that is the focus of this meager script is now so de rigueur that there is no melodrama or intrigue to this story . One must credit writer Ruth Epstein , director Harvey Kahn , and executive producer / star Christian Slater for caring enough about the chaos oil supplies and their impact on the world at large are causing , but the sad truth is that this tale is so ho-hum in that we all read this very story in the newspaper everyday that it hardly seems to merit a movie . The cast is sterling - Christian Slater as a Wall Street type , Robert Loggia as the dirty hands dealer type , Selma Blair as the idealist , and Colm Feore , John Heard , Kevin Tighe , etc all try their best to make this flabby script meaningful . The star of the movie is the musical scoring by Christopher Lennertz . . . and that says a lot . Without an arc of plot line and without a bit of new information about the corruption at the highest levels of this country , this film just doesn't get off the ground . Grady Harp
Guess you have to be in the mood for this one . . .	Comedies based on ideas and lines that play for laughs at the expense of other people's dignity have been increasingly flooding the cinema market in the past years . They usually tend to be summer blockbusters and because they make a lot of money and attract record crowds there must be need for them . Go figure . Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson as divorce mediating wedding crashers whose chronic hobby is to womanize during women's most vulnerable hours ( weddings ) is the theme . The first half hour of this overly long ( two hour ) movie traces them through many a varied wedding circumstance where they prevaricate their way into people's acceptance , the reward being to bed the most gullible females present . Weddings have been used ad infinitum as theme parks for humor , some clever ( Four Weddings and a Funeral ) and others not . This one falls into the latter category as it takes a premise to extremes then shifts focus in the last half hour in an attempt to redeem itself . There are some talented actors in the cast but few of them are given enough material to justify their inclusion . Jane Seymour in a Mrs . Robinson role has moments , but Christopher Walken as a government bigwig falters . A new face , Rachel McAdams , is welcome and acts as the only truly thought out character in the story . But you have to be in the mood for some cruelty of language , some toilet humor , and a tolerance for over-extended ideas to make it through this one . Grady Harp
A Hollywood Version of an Independent Creative Film : Ding !	Mario Van Peebles has done some good work in his past but this bizarre , confusing , silly dud is not one of them . The script feels like someone gave a party for wannabe writers , told them each to submit a plot for a far out film , then mixed them all together and came up with a hash that in the end is merely a re-do of the bad guy turned good guy on the run - with diversions . Lucky ( Wesley Snipes ) is released from prison with the plan of going straight . Of course his buddy covets his reputation and invites him to his birthday party where Lucky lusts after a pole dancer Angela ( Jackie Quinones ) and manages to become involved in a dirty cop drug deal that sends him on the usual wild car chase with Angela looking for a way to hideout with the corrupt money stashed in metal suitcases ( rigged of course ) . After a shootout in a motel , the couple seeks housing from a gay porno filmmaker Mendez ( Luis Guzmán in yet another chameleon role ) and his associate Antonio ( Gavin J . Behrman ) who just happens to be in on the dirty cop aspect of the drug deal . Off Lucky and Angela drive to a wooded area where they hole up next door to a weirdo pair of serial killers - Cass ( Cybill Shepherd ) , who is angry at the world for negative response to her retarded grown son Eugene ( Mike Messier ) , and Chang ( James Hiroyuki Liao ) , Cass's strangely sick lover and wannabe martial arts expert ( yeah , that is thrown in , too ) - who kidnap victims and torture and kill them in Hollywood-style videotaped sequences . Of course , when Lucky and Angela need telephone help , Lucky goes next door , is immediately strapped into a torture chair , only eventually to be discovered by the bad of bad cops and one decent cop , Captain Davis , played by Mario Van Peebles of course . And things change and intertwine and nobody really cares . Wesley Snipes does have charisma and it is because of him that the film is watchable , but even his role doesn't explain why this mess was made in the first place . It looks and sounds like a very low budget film on which probably millions were spent . Pass on this one unless you're in the mood to laugh AT a movie instead of with one . Grady Harp
Witnessing the Bohemian Life of Paris , 1919 : Artists Awry	MODIGLIANI is a difficult movie to review . It has some very strong features such as the cinematography that captures the artsy feeling of Paris 1919 and , despite excesses , manages to create some visuals of hallucinations and the wild madness of painters painting canvasses ; a rather complex peak into the lives of several of the more revolutionary artists of the time ; and a substantial feeling for the interchange between artist and model . The main problem with the film is a script that is banal , limited in historical validity , and concentrating on a single rather silly motif of a painters ' competition . Amedeo Modigliani ( 1884 - 1920 ) was a Sephardic Jew from Italy who moved to the mecca of Paris to create his brilliant portraits and sculptures of nudes and extended neck women and girls . His genius lay in his unifying the spiritual Eastern iconography ( tribal art and Judaism ) of his heritage with the Christian ( read Catholic ) traditions of the artists with whom he associated which resulted in his creations of the female nude from a feminist cultural perspective . What this film delivers is a rather annoying portrait of a young consumptive artist who drank and drugged himself to death at a moment in his career when renown was just beginning . The reasons for his place in art history are merely hinted all for the sake of the Hollywood biopic . Andy Garcia plays Modigliani with a modicum of élan and a plethora of bad traits . The lovely model Jeanne Hébuterne ( Elsa Zylberstein ) who was the subject not only of his portraits but the mother of his illegitimate child and his live-in paramour is a bit long in the tooth on suffering , though despite the fact that Zylberstien is hampered by both a weak script and limited acting , she does have an uncanny resemblance to Jeanne . The artists with whom ' Modi ' works include a strangely miscast Picasso ( Omid Djalili ) , Chaim Soutine ( Stevan Rimkus ) , Maurice Utrillo ( Hippolyte Girardot ) , Diego Rivera ( Dan Astileanu ) , Zborowski ( Louis Hilyer ) , and the strangely non-effeminate Jean Cocteau ( Peter Capaldi ) ! Dealer Max Jacob ( Udo Kier ) and Gertrude Stein ( Miriam Margolyes ! ) are thrown in with the harlequins and ' Modi's ' child spirit Dedo ( Frederico Ambrosino ) for atmosphere . The storyline is one that could have easily been told in the requisite time frame but MODIGLIANI taxes the viewers ' attention for over two hours . So aside from a visually exciting experience there is really very little to be learned from this liquor and opium soaked consumptive noisy melodrama that could have been about any one of the artists involved in the story . The genius of Modigliani is barely tapped . Grady Harp
Nice Sea Oats , Clover , Ocean Rocks , but . . .	ROCK HAVEN seems to have its heart in the right place , showing the conflict between the religious right and human sexuality that occurs between two young teenagers , but the script is minimal , uncomfortable in saying what it really wants to say , and in the end the resulting film is a long drawn out series of a few sentences followed by lengthy views of the ocean and the wild flowers at coastline ( even though Bodega Bay is stunningly beautiful to watch ! ) . Brady ( Sean Hoagland ) lives at the beach with his mother ( Laura Jane Coles ) preparing to go to Bible college at summer's end : the two are strongly right wing religious people . Into this rather rigid atmosphere steps Clifford ( Owen Alabado ) and there is an immediate chemistry between the two young lads - Clifford being openly gay while Brady is so far back in the dark closet that Clifford's mere presence terrifies him . Clifford's mother ( Katheryn Hecht ) is a free spirit who deals comfortably with her son's feelings and tries to support Brady in his fear of sinning . Brady's mother ' can't change the way she believes ' ( gay relationships are sinful ) and tries to ' change ' Brady by encouraging his attraction to a sweet well-meaning girl ( Erin Daly ) who just happens to understand Brady's needs more than he does ! The manner in which this conflict is approached and quasi-resolved is weak as written and directed by David Lewis ( who also plays the role of the minister . . . ) , and the ending is unsatisfactory at best . The quality of acting is low on the scale but the sincerity is palpable . The viewer wants to care for these young lads confronting love for the first time , but the situation posed by the meager dialog and the ending keep it from becoming the nice little wisp of a film it could have been . The scenery is the star , but it is hardly the ' haven ' for this dilemma that the title suggests . Grady Harp
A Woody Allen Relapse	Woody Allen seems to have two personas : one writes and directs works such sensitive works as Matchpoint and Interiors , the other writes and directs himself in silly slapstick movies that only a Woody Allen fan tireless of his old used jokes and self promotion can tolerate , such as Scoop . This flimsy film seems to have been designed to give Allen screen time for his tired jokes in the company of some very good actors . Splitting his tale between Charon's boat crossing the river Styx with recently departed dead people on board then transferring their conversations about the ' scoop ' of revealing a society stud as a Tarot Serial Killer via the machinations of the ridiculous magician entry point into contemporary life , Allen cares little about plot cohesion and more about the quick one-liners . The good thing about the film is the cast : Hugh Jackman , Scarlett Johansson , Ian McShane , and Romola Garai are creative actors who so their best to help Allen pull off this sleeper . Definitely restricted audience for fans of Woody Allen's whiny humor only . No wonder it failed in the theaters ! Grady Harp
Slapstick Mixed with Psychology	GUN SHY is a peculiar movie , one that purports to have a significant storyline but one that splinters ideas all over the place , leaving the viewer wondering what all the fuss is about . ' Charlie ' Mayeaux ( Liam Neeson ) is a bummed out DEA agent fresh from a bungled case yet given an important assignment to break a Columbian drug cartel represented by Fidel ( José Zúñiga ) and his boyfriend Estuvio ( Michael DeLorenzo ) . Also caught up in this mélange is the Mafia represented , however reluctantly , by Fulvio Nestra ( Oliver Platt ) , a nerdy but vicious bungler whose temper is uncontrollable , partly due to his insipid belittling wife Gloria ( Mary McCormack ) whose father demands Fulvio's crime life importance . Charlie is a mess , meets a psychologist who introduces him to group therapy ( where Charlie idiotically relates all the DEA secrets openly ) and to gastroenterology where nurse Judy ( Sandra Bullock ) administers a barium enema then other more herbal-sided treatments while she and Charlie become bonded . People are maimed ( gunshot castration ) , killed , made to look foolish , all to the end of supposedly belly laughs on the part of the audience . True , Neeson shows a flair for comedy and Platt manages to convey a breakthrough role for him , but the rest is a jumbled mess . Made in 2000 with the Twin Towers of New York frequently visible during talk against Arabs and the Middle East , it is easy to see why the timing of this ' yet another Mafia vs law ' film contributed to its short theater run ( how many have even heard of it ? ) . But in the final analysis it probably failed on its own merits - sad for a film filled to the brim with very fine actors . Grady Harp
Being True to Yourself	For those expecting the cover art and story outline to indicate another entertaining Bollywood Indian production , beware : no musical dance numbers or songs of production value exist to brighten the mood in this rather tired story of arranged marriages in the British Indian culture - with a few variations thrown in . As written by Roopesh Parekh the script jumps around topics worthy of discussion only to cover them up with routine avoidance tactics . Harmage Singh Kalirai directs like a traffic cop , trying to hold together the disparate subplots to the point of Keystone Cop tactics . Jimi ( Chris Bisson ) is a medical school student who is gay and has a lover Jack ( Peter Ash ) and they live with Jack's obese , alcoholic , loose morals aunt Vanessa ( Sally Bankes ) and Sally's chubby daughter Hannah ( Katy Clayton ) . Jimi's family is visited by the Patel family from Delhi who bring their beautiful daughter Simran ( Jinder Mahal ) to England to find a husband . Jimi's parents ( Saeed Jaffrey and Jamila Massey ) and his grandmother ( Zohra Sehgal ) decide Simran is the girl for Jimi to marry and arrange an engagement and wedding in the custom of Indian ways - without consulting Jimi . Jimi discovers the plot and is too spineless not to go along with it , a decision which enrages Jack and infuriates Vanessa . Hannah tells a ' little lie ' to Simran ( that she is Jimi's daughter ) and the wedding is off . When Jimi's parents visit Jimi's house they discover the drunken Vanessa , are repulsed by her , but eventually decide that for Jimi's happiness they will go along with the fact that Vanessa has given them a ' granddaughter ' and decide to use the marriage preparations as a wedding for Jimi and Vanessa . Jimi convinces the very reluctant Vanessa to go along with the idea and before long Vanessa is dressed in a sari , prepared for a wedding , and Jimi , terrified at what he is doing just to please his parents , includes Jack as his best man . At the wedding the truth comes out and to Jimi's surprise his family adapts to Jimi's true self and the day is saved by simply being truthful . The cast copes with this silly bit of nonsense rather well and there are some good performances : Chris Bisson and Peter Ash are attractive men and play their roles well , albeit without any indication at all of a loving relationship ( the director seems terrified of showing the least suggestion of intimacy between the two men ) ; Sally Bankes provides most of the laughs as Vanessa ; the rest of the cast repeat the stereotype roles they've played countless times in Indian movies . This is not a bad film - it has its moments - but it is just too superficial and tired to make us care about any of the characters .
A Sweet Little Illustrated Fairytale	SUPERMAN RETURNS is actually closer to the original intention of comic books for kids than most of the other incarnations . Kids bought comic books for the color , the action , the hero who represents the guy who can set a ditsy world straight , and a bunch of feel good sidebars that pay homage to mothers , other kids , bad guys defeated , and the open end for yet another installment . Bryan Singer directs this outing with a degree of simple distinction that holds the piece together . The story is Superman's return from a five year hiatus in Krypton to bring meaning to the lives of the planet earth . His mother ( Eva Marie Saint ) has grown old but still believes in her absentee son , a young hunk Brandon Roth who has little more to do in this film but cast his innocent blue eyes in the direction of evil and be supported by all the CGI props that allow him to fly around the world saving things ( Routh may be able to act but he is not given enough lines to let us know this time around ) . Lo and behold Lois Lane ( a fine Kate Bosworth ) is still around but now a mother to the next Superman and living with the nice guy co-editor Richard ( the fine James Marsden ) , the editor being Perry White ( Frank Langella ) . Once Superman returns to earth he is challenged by the evil Lex Luthor ( Kevin Spacey embodying evil ) with his loopy girlfriend Kitty ( the scene stealing , very fine Parker Posey ! ) . The rest of the film is primarily special effects : Lex discovers a crystal form Krypton that can grow into a whole evil world if not checked . But of course good wins out over evil and it all comes to a slightly teary and funny conclusion . The thing about this version is that it doesn't take itself seriously . This is an escapist film just as comic books were escapist items for kids . And it works . Grady Harp
Another ' Oh , well . . . ' movie	FAILURE TO LAUNCH certainly is . The formula of placing eye candy stars in roles that require little more than one walk through rehearsal before filming seems to be a trend to satisfy the public , who unfortunately keep supporting these 20-minute sitcom ideas stretched beyond the limits of elasticity into a movie length features . The concept is that of a fixer called in to change a characters behavior only to have the ' fix ' discovered and backfire . Tripp ( Matthew McConaughey ) is the middle-aged live - at - home - mooching - off - the - parents ( a really sad comment on a male type too popular in the media ) whose parents ( Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw , trying desperately to find out why they signed up for this film ) want him to move out and on . They hire professional motivator Paula ( Sarah Jessica Parker in a re-run of her Sex and the City mold ) to affect this change only to have Tripp discover the plot and make some changes of his own causing . . . . . . fill in the blanks . While the stars of the film are good , solid actors who do their best with the flimsy script to make it interesting , the main reason to watch this film is for the eye candy which , in addition to Parker and McConaughey , includes the gifted Zooey Deschanel and Bradley Cooper . On a hot summer night without air-conditioning this bit of fluff requires no thought and does have some moments of tongue in cheek truths that make it enjoyable in the hands of this cast . Otherwise , the film falls into the ' must miss ' category . Grady Harp
A Good Idea Flawed by a Thunderously Bad Script	David Cronenberg has a style with his films that is unmistakable : he is unafraid to address the darker aspects that lie within us all . That he pushes this idea over the limits of viewable film is reflected in some of his popular films such as ' Dead Ringers ' , ' The Fly ' , ' Spider ' , ' eXistenZ ' , ' Naked Lunch ' etc . Yet despite his apparent love of gore he drives home a point that should be considered . Most of the time he works with a good script . For A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE he is hampered by one of the most pedestrian , hackneyed , adolescent scripts trying to pass as a big time movie - Josh Olson's adaptation of the grisly pulp novel by John Wagner and Vince Locke . Tom Stall ( Viggo Mortensen ) is introduced to us as the head of a Hallmark happy-wappy family in Indiana - with his wife Edie ( Maria Bello ) , son Jack ( Ashton Holmes ) and daughter Sarah ( Heidi Hayes ) . Sure , Jack is harassed at school as a ' faggot ' by a group of losers , but he takes it on the chin . Tom owns a diner where everybody just loves him - until one day when a couple of thugs disturb the placid boredom of the place and end up dead at Tom's too facile hands . Tom becomes a town hero , but the glow soon fades as big time crime enters in the guise of Fogarty ( Ed Harris ) plus thugs who enter the diner and confront Tom that he really is one Joey Cusack , a ' previous life ' killer from Philadelphia . Tension mounts and ultimately Tom kills the intruders only to come to grips with some realities that are threatening and unpleasant and turn his family 180 degrees against him ( in one of the most absurdly written reversals of family commitment ever written ) in a fraction of a second . The rest is resolution of the Joey Cusack enigma and then the film just stops . The actors try to make this mess work but the lines they are required to murmur are just too bad to digest . But if you like gore and battered bodies and spree killings and dark motives with secret agendas , then the film may please . But how it got attention in the first place is a bit difficult to believe . The accompanying featurettes on the DVD show all the secrets behind the gore and include scenes eventually deleted for good reason . Grady Harp
Visual Splendor Tattered Around the Edges	In WU JI ( ' THE PROMISE ' ) Kaige Chen has attempted to surpass the major Chinese epics of recent years with mixed results : there are moments of stunningly beautiful color and a story that is more human than the grand films by others , but the end product is too tampered with crude computer graphics and cheesy scenes to sustain the belief in fantasy that these films require . The opening scene where Qingcheng ( uncredited as a child actress ) is confronted by the Goddess Manchen ( Hong Chen ) in the middle of an aqueous atmosphere and the ' promise ' is contracted is as sensuously lovely as anything on film . But from there we plough through a story of fighting between barbarians and royalty , of love affairs between Princess Qingcheng ( Cecilia Cheung as the adult version ) and the General Guangming ( Hiroyuki Sanada ) with the addition of love interest from the General's slave Kunlun ( Dong-Kun Jang ) , and of confrontations with mythic figures such as the Snow Wolf ( Ye Liu ) and the evil Wuhuan ( Nicholas Tse ) , and the stories collide and ultimately get lost in the special effects . Much can be said for the cinematic beauty of this film : equal disappointment can be voiced for the crude computer graphics and tacky mass scenes with weapons that look plastic Tonka toys . In the end it feels as though the director / writer was more interested in the competing ingredients of his colorful soup than in the work as a whole . Another problem with the DVD is the superimposed English dubbing that is completely out of sync with the story AND subtitles that conflict with the language of the film : to see this unfortunate mismanagement of effects , turn on the English dubbing simultaneously with the English subtitles and see how even the numbers being spoken aren't even close to being the same ! A colorful film with some good-looking actors but for this viewer it just never gels . Grady Harp
A Good Idea in the Beginning Trickles off into Noisy Nothing	Had the writers and director of THE ISLAND been able to sustain the fascinating first half hour of this flimsy film , the result might have been an enlightening examination of the current discussion of cloning . But as soon as the movie captures our attention it fizzles and what is left is two and a half hours of noisy endless destructive chase sequences that put this reviewer to sleep . Using fine actors like Ewan McGregor and Scarlett Johansson and Sean Bean one would think more attention would have been paid to a good script . They have us in the beginning as we slowly come to realize that this space-age environment is not the ' rescue place ' from the end of the world by contamination , but rather a very expensive human cloning lab where wealthy people up on top of the subterranean lab life have paid huge sums of money to have duplicate donors on whom to rely for organs and integument as age begins to erode their own . Every ' person ' in the lab ( thinking that they are waiting transfer to the Garden of Eden Island of the title ) is actually a manufactured copy of the owners topside . Well , not all secrets can remain hidden and McGregor follows a butterfly to discover the truth about the venture and the rest of the tale is McGregor's and Johansson's escape into the world above in search of their ' real ' counterparts . Once on the surface of the earth the movie goes downhill fast in a mixture of special effects and destruction derby that it just loses all interest . This is a movie that only avid fans of McGregor and Johansson will want to see - because there is little else to recommend it ! Grady Harp
Streetball , Underground Money , Dreams , and Resolutions	CROSSOVER has style . Writer / director Preston A . Whitmore II makes up in visual technique and pacing what he lacks in a somewhat tired script , and simply sitting back and watching the movement for this viewer makes the movie worthwhile . The story details the mechanisms of the underground betting on streetball in Detroit - basketball teams that that serve as betting pawns for promoters . Caught up in the flashy court skills are two close friends - Tech ( Anthony Mackie ) , who has a crime record and dreams of plying pro-ball for the NBA , and Noah Cruise ( the very fine and hunky Wesley Jonathan ) whose goal is to use his streetball earnings to enter college and medical school . The friends ' big rival team is headed by Jewelz ( actual ball player Phillip " Hot Sauce " Champion ) and the betting setups between these two rival teams strikes the flame for the action that follows . Of course there is the requisite romantic interest ( both for good and bad ) brought to play by fine actors Alecia Jai Fears , Shelli Boone and Eva Pigford and in the end the story is more about friendship and trust and commitment than it is about winning . Whitmore elects to cut and splice his shots of the games like a DJ on a record spin and that aspect of the film is fascinating and creative . He also capitalizes on a fine chemistry that Anthony Mackie and Wesley Johnson generate . The plot is predictable and the story has been done before , but in the end the film satisfies because of the way it plays - and because of the choreography on the court ! Grady Harp
Hardly an Original Story , but Aniston is a Pleasure in her Metre	PICTURE PERFECT is truly a bit of fluff , a story that has been posed many times before in other successful date movies , a movie that would easily be dismissed were it not for the reminder that Jennifer Aniston has a finely honed sense of comic timing that keeps her in the top of the league for actresses in this metre today . Aniston plays a career conscious young woman who hires a wedding photographer to pose as her boyfriend in order to test the interest of a man who has caught her eye and demonstrate to her company her degree of commitment to her job . It all backfires : the poser is the one she falls for and her priorities are reset . The cast includes the under-used Jay Mohr , a wasted role for Kevin Bacon , and only slight nods to the talents of actors such as Olympia Dukakis and Illeana Douglas . But Aniston is a joy to watch , even with a flimsy script and despite a series of ' costumes ' that detract from her very natural beauty . The story is so derivative that it may offend the senses , but if an evening of fluff is salve for your tired brain , this excursion will fill the bill . Grady Harp
Once in a While a Bit of Nostalgia Suits the Palate	SATISFACTION is not a great movie by any shakes , but taken for what it was meant to be - a slightly naive tale of a girls ' band that has a summer of adventure , love and opportunity for the big time nut opts instead to become just a group of life-long friends - it is a well done bit of pastiche . Thanks to the simple script by Charles Purpura and to the sensitive direction of Joan Freeman the little story works well . The interesting aspect of the film is the cast . The band consists of leader Justine Bateman with Trini Alvarado , Britta Phillips , Scott Coffey as the token male , Deborah Harry and yes , the movie debut of Julia Roberts ! Liam Neeson serves as the love interest for Justine Bateman's character and Michael DeLorenzo has a small part , too . The music is fun and the cast commits to the idea of the film well . Strange to see a film from 1988 with the established stars disappearing and the ' newcomers ' taking flight . Grady Harp
The Dynamics of Small Town Boredom : A Metaphor ?	Tom Zuber has great credentials in Law but seems to prefer to dabble in the territory of cinema . Having not seen his debut film LANSDOWN ( 2001 ) it is difficult to judge from LITTLE ATHENS ( 2005 ) if he is improving with age , but looking at LITTLE ATHENS on its own merits it seems a bit sparse in idea and in production . Athens , Arizona is the bleak setting of this day in the lives of some fairly bored ( and boring ) youngsters , ne're-do-wells attempting to infuse sparkle into an otherwise glitterless place . Zuber creates four story lines , spottily interweaves them , and finally connects the dots in the last reel . The main problem is that comedy is funny because we care about the facilitators and here there really aren't any folks in which to invest . The cast tries hard and succeeds in giving us a taste of life in the flatlands of nothingville . D . J . Qualls ( a character type who is very good , as in ' Hustle and Flow ' ) , Michael Pena , John Patrick Amedori , Shawn Hatosi , Tory Kittles , Eric Szmanda , Jorge Garcia , Erica Leerhsen , and Michelle Horn are particularly fine and do their best with the material they are given . Tom Zuber has a style , a sense of non-scripted spontaneity incorporating the gross with the sadsack , and given time he may make a fine little film . This one just misses . Grady Harp
Even the Best of Intentions . . .	THE KING MAKER will doubtless be a success in Thailand where the similar ( but superior ) ' The Legend of Suriyothai ' set box office records . The film directed by Lek Kitaparaporn after a screenplay by Sean Casey based on historical fact in 1547 Siam has some amazingly beautiful visual elements but is disarmed by one of the corniest , pedestrian scripts and story development on film . The event the picture relates is the arrival of the Portuguese soldier of fortune Fernando de Gamma ( Gary Stretch ) whose vengeance for this father's murderer drives him to shipwrecked , captured and thrown into slavery and put on the bloc in Ayutthaya in the kingdom of Siam where he is purchased by the beautiful Maria ( Cindy Burbridge ) with the consent of her father Phillipe ( John Rhys-Davies ) , a man with a name and a past that are revealed as the story progresses . There is a plot to overthrown the King and Fernando and his new Siamese sidekick Tong ( Dom Hetrakul ) , after some gratuitous CGI enhanced choreographed martial arts silliness , are first rewarded by the King to become his bodyguards , only to be imprisoned together once Queen Sudachan ( Yoe Hassadeevichit ) reveals her plot to kill the king and son to allow her lover Lord Chakkraphat ( Oliver Pupart ) to take over the rule of Siam . Yet of course Fernando and Tong escape and are condemned to fight each other to save the lives of their families ( Tong's wife and children and Fernando's now firm love affair with Maria ) with the expected consequences . The acting ( with the exception of John Rhys-Davies ) is so weak that the film occasionally seems as though it were meant to be camp . The predominantly Thai cast struggle with the poorly written dialog , making us wish they had used their native Thai with subtitles . The musical score by Ian Livingstone sounds as though exhumed form old TV soap operas . But if it is visual splendor you're after there is plenty of that and that alone makes the movie worth watching . It is a film that has obvious high financial backing for all the special effects and masses of cast and sets and shows its good intentions . It is just the basics that are missing . Grady Harp
Another Dysfunctional Family Ramifications Film	CRUTCH is a film you want to like : it feels honest , from the heart of the autobiography of writer / director / producer / actor Rob Moretti , and it aims to deliver a statement about the dangers of drug abuse and how to conquer it . The problems with this film are 1 ) it all has been said and shown before , 2 ) the camera work and editing are so inconsistent that they become intrusive , and 3 ) the actors selected to enact this downfall film are pretty much folks with good intentions but little finesse . Obviously made on a very low budget with a group of people who appear committed to the project , it has everything we could want from an Indie except polish . David ( Eben Gordon - unfortunately not resembling a 16-year-old boy he is supposed to be ) is trying to hold together his fragile family of adulterous father Jack ( James Early ) , an alcoholic self-destructive mother Katie ( Juanita Walsh ) , and brother and sister . Jack leaves the family for his paramour , Maryann is hospitalized for rehab after an injurious fall , the other siblings are cope less , and David attempts to escape reality by joining an acting class . The acting teacher Kenny ( Rob Moretti ) , accompanied by his close friend and confidant Maryann ( Jennifer Katz ) , encourage David's young ability and despite wise Maryann's warnings , Kenny responds to his attraction to David . Out of need for order in his life David opens up his sexuality and becomes bonded with Kenny . Kenny's hidden drug addiction is uncovered by David and David begins to use the coke and his downfall begins . It is a love / hate relationship , David becoming the movie star Kenny's drug habit prevented . And eventually David attempts to return to his family and girlfriend only to meet with disaster until in the final moments of the film we find David in a 12-step program . The ending summarizes how each of the characters ' lives stand at the present via screen statements before the credits . As said before , the film cries to be loved but the technical aspects of its creation simply fall short of the much-needed chemistries that this inexperienced cast is unable to deliver . It may be an example of the writer losing the necessary distance from the final product by being over-extended in the making of the film . Grady Harp
An Intrigue with some Nice Twists , but Entirely Predictable	Edgardo Viereck is a Chilean writer / director with a lot of good ideas but with hefty need for a partner to help him create a film that holds to those thoughts . GENTE DECENTE ( ' Decent People ' ) as a title is a terrific start for telling a story about deceit and cheating and irresponsible friendships - a tasty non sequitur of a title , until he spoils it in the end . The story opens with one of many erotic scenes : Andrés ( Luciano Cruz Coke ) is bedding hooker Gloria ( Viviana Rodríguez ) , a bachelor's party gift from his friend Roberto ( Francisco Melo ) on the eve of his wedding to Rosario ( Katyna Huberman ) . Problems arise when Gloria takes one of Andrés ' business cards and later shows up at his law office where she tempts him into making love in the office - a deed captured on routine office security video cameras and is overheard by the firm's secretary Carolina ( Francisca Reiss ) . Gloria needs Andrés ' help ( and money ) in dealing with her procurer Ernesto ( Alejandro Trejo ) and her techniques approach stalking . Somehow the dark video gets into the hands of Rosario who is devastated that her fiancé would be adulterous before their wedding and Rosario begins to stalk Gloria . Ernesto discovers Andrés ' identity , mistakes him for a man named Carlos who he sees as a threat to his possession of Gloria , and makes threats to Andrés for the money Gloria owes him and for the identity of ' Carlos ' . In the apartment building where Gloria lives there is a security camera and once again videos of the various characters appear in dangerous hands . Gloria is murdered and the explosion that causes affects everyone in the film : who is the killer , who is ' Carlos ' , what is reality and what is staged ? The facts come together quickly in the end and it is all too obvious to the audience . The actors employed in the film ( with the exception of Luciano Cruz Coke ) are fairly mediocre , but even borderline acting can be corrected to an extent by excellent direction and fine editing , neither of which exists here . This seems more like a television novella than a film made for theater audiences . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
HaRoo , HaRoo , HaRoo : Cinematic Overkill	Writing a review of a film such as ' 300 ' when not a fan of comic book style , superheroes , violent games carried on by children's hand held instruments , a film so overwhelmingly popular with the public that it promises to be the largest grossing film in history , and a film based on a 1999 ' graphic novel ' ( read comic book ) by the talented writer-artist Frank Miller and colorist Lynn Varley in an updated version of the famous battle of Thermopylae in 480 BC , places a viewer in a vulnerable position . Yet every film made deserves the attention of a well-rounded examination and with that in mind this viewer offers the following thoughts . Zack Snyder directed this screenplay , sharing the writing credits with Kurt Johnstad and Michael Gordon about Spartan King Leonidas ( Gerard Butler ) and his group of 300 trained from birth soldiers to know no fear and to die as heroes who together fight the huge forces of King Xerxes ( Rodrigo Santoro ) while leaving behind Queen Gorgo ( Lena Headley ) and the venomous Theron ( Dominic West ) to end to matters at hand in Sparta . A keen plan to meet the Persians ( Persia of yore is now called Iran ! ) at a narrow gulch at Thermopylae supported the courage of the mighty buff Spartans to have a logistical advantage . But of course Xerxes ' legions of rhinos , elephants and warriors ultimately kill all the Spartans : it is a story of heroism in the face of extraordinary odds . With the exception of a few moments at the beginning and a few well placed breathers through the long two-hour film the subject matter is fighting , blood , decapitation hither and yon , and piles of corpses used as barriers as the huge animals of Xerxes tumble off the cliffs . Blood spatters the air and the actors and the story , giving credence to the illustration used to promote the film . The problems , other than the ' overkill ' of endless battle to the tune of soldiers shooting repeated ' HaRoos ' , for this viewer lie with the script which mixes contemporary slang with pompous Grecian proclamation - stretching the credibility of the story beyond the limit of tolerance ; the excessive noise of battle in competition with a ' musical score ' that keeps the volume to maximum level ; the fact that the acting is minimal at best , though this may be part of the ' comic book ' concept ; and the apparent emphasis on having every Spartan look like the same beefcake mold form from an art department . There are a few moments of tenderness as when the Captain ( Vincent Regan ) watches his son's decapitated head float to the ground in slow motion and he for the first time offers human anguish . But for the most part this is a blood red movie that relies on audience appreciation for gore . Yes , it is a successful cinematic transition of a comic book , but the real story of history being told is so much more moving . Yet the lines at the movie theaters remain long after 4 weeks of release . . . Grady Harp
Revenge on the Rocks with a Twist of Comedy !	There are ' chick flicks ' and there are ' guy flicks ' and LET'S GO TO PRISON definitely falls into the latter category . Adapted from a novel ' You Are Going to Prison ' by Jim Hogshire by screenwriters Ben Garant , Thomas Lennon and Michael Patrick Jann and directed by Bob Odenkirk , this light film seems to be a ' boys night out ' venture and should be viewed with a heavy dose of good humor . John Lyshitski ( a hunky and very funny Dax Shepard ) has a rotten childhood , having been caught in funky ' crimes ' always facing the courtroom of on Judge Biederman ( David Darlow ) who consistently sentences him to time in reform school then prison . After multiple terms behind bars Lyshitski seeks revenge on the judge only to discover the judge has died ! BUT the judge left a cocky son as heir - Nelson Biederman IV ( Will Arnett ) - and Lyshitski stalks him and ultimately is able to get Nelson locked up in prison , and then manages to get himself locked up simultaneously to be Nelson's cell mate . The point of the caper is to put Nelson through the cruel events of prison life , but as the two live in the same cell , Lyshitski's best ideas for revenge and backfire , leaving the once terrified Nelson in the hands of a Black gang leader Barry ( Chi McBride ) with whom Nelson ultimately bonds and thwarts all the plans for revenge that Lyshitski penned . The ending is a funny twist of events that is good for a chuckle as well as lesson about guy bonding . The film is no great shakes of a movie , but made on an obviously low budget it does benefit from the antics of the three excellent leads and the result is a ' different kind of prison movie ' that is light , silly , and entertaining . Grady Harp
A Film Saved on DVD Release by the Featurettes !	Having been warned by friends and fellow Amazon reviewers that this was a film to avoid , I rented it to see why all the negativisms . There is a big difference between what the public saw on the big screen and what the DVD produces , and for once a film is better because of the added information on the DVD than when it stands alone . Director E . Elias Merhige understood the concept of his story as is made evident in the special features meant to be viewed after the movie : the real interest here is the concept of ' remote viewing ' , a technique practiced and taught by US intelligence in the past whereby psychic powers of using that part of the mind not confined to the corporal brain within the skull can be called upon to ' see ' events before they happen . Sound strange ? Well , that is a premise that in retrospect makes this film almost enjoyable to watch . All of the characters in this grisly mess of a film have a tainted background : Thomas Mackelway ( Aaron Eckhart ) is an FBI agent with a history of suspension for six months who reports to Albuquerque to help find a serial killer . His ex-associate Fran Kulok ( Carrie-Anne Moss ) is called to be his reluctant partner . It seems there are multiple murders of children and adults whose eyelids are excised and drawings and symbols left around as indicators of some sick mind leaving a gross trail of death . All during this time we see one Benjamin O'Ryan ( Ben Kingsley ) ' cinematically involved ' with these crimes : O'Ryan is reportedly an ex-FBI agent with a shady past . Mackelway and Kulok find an information box that contains a map of the US with markers indicating hundreds of unsolved murders of missing persons , and in addition the box contains news articles about Mackelway's dismissal from the FBI - articles that indicate that Mackelway may be indeed the next victim . Eventually O'Ryan is questioned as a suspect and he too briefly references his years ago training by the FBI in ' remote viewing ' . Had this portion of the film been elaborated the remainder of the film may have been able to hold our interest . Instead the ending is a Hollywood gala that doesn't fit the preceding story at all . The dialogue ( written by Zak Penn ) is loose , fragmentary , and pedestrian . The use of the camera as a toy in attempting to create tension becomes visually nauseating ( red screen to ochre screen to upside down to black and white , etc . ) and does not at all contribute to the story . The various drawings that lead to the serial killer and his mentor are the best part of the film : the artist who created these little works deserves much credit ! So why 4 stars instead of 1 or 2 ? Because if you watch the featurettes FIRST and learn about psychic phenomena and ' remote viewing ' then the movie is actually quite interesting . The acting is on the OK level unless you understand from the outset that Ben Kingsley is recreating the concepts behind the story very well instead of simply appearing to be yet another serial killer weirdo . It is a case of the director paying more attention to visuals than to story .
Fright Flight	THE MARSH is yet another scary movie to satisfy the apparently inexhaustible demand for fright films of this genre . It is obviously a low budget film that suffers from a silly script resurrecting tired themes of communication with ghosts and the intervention of paranormal specialists . Successful children's book author and illustrator Claire Holloway ( Gabrielle Anwar ) is besieged by recurrent nightmares that prompt her therapist to recommend a sabbatical , advice she heeds as she moves out into the country to a little creepy town called Marshville . She rents a old house near the marsh from a woman Mercy ( Brooke Johnson ) and discovers from the local newspaper editor Noah ( Justin Louis ) that the town is riddled with history of hauntings following the disappearance of a little girl into the marshes , the victim of sexual assault that has never been adequately investigated . Claire's time in her new ' home ' is racked with appearances of the dead little girl and her muddy perpetrator and she finally seeks the help of a Paranormal expert Hunt ( Forest Whitaker ) who helps her solve the etiology of Claire's nightmares and provides an exit for the ghosts . Most of the film is dark with poor Claire just wandering around the creepy house with her open-mouthed / wide-eyed frightened look , avoiding the flying detritus caused by the angry spirits that haunt her . Gabrielle Anwar is beautiful to look at but is not really called upon to act . Likewise Forest Whitaker is paralyzed by an inept script that even this fine actor can't overcome . The music is the canned , synthesizer variety and the camera work is jerky and gets in the way of the story . This is a movie for avid fans of scary flicks who can overlook the multiple production and writing problems . Grady Harp
How to lose your interest . . . .	Jordan Hawley wrote and directed this dark ' comedy ' about the current state of love / hate relationships in Los Angeles ( or inability to create same ) with about as much panache as yesterday's onion rings . The storyline has been used so many times that the tread is off the tires . LA ghostwriter Owen ( Paul Schneider ) is a ' nice guy ' who sustains an inability to form a satisfactory love relationship . Exasperated with his life style he decides to become a cad : that must be what women ( and men ) want . He reverses his nice guy tactic and begins telling everyone he encounters just how he feels - and that is usually negative ! The only person who doesn't but into his change is his roommate Allison ( Poppy Montgomery ) who is bisexual and therefore not wholly available . He decides to leave Los Angeles and move to the East Coast where a lucrative deal awaits him to write the memoirs of a famous man . At the last moment he meets one Val ( Jennifer Westfeldt ) , an animal activist : the chemistry is there but each has a conflicting program . Owen is honest with her , a factor that does not chase her away , but both part ways to other parts of the world . Upon return to LA after a disappointing experience on the East Coast , tables turn and surprises arise . And the ending is a mixture of silly and unsatisfying . Movies like this are meant to entertain and some of the dialogue is clever albeit acerbic . It just that the idea of relationship examination under these terms is so worn out that the movie just doesn't spark any innovative thoughts . After about thirty minutes into the film this ' audience ' lost interest .
But the photography is good . . . . . . .	Miami VICE , a film surrounded by rumors and preconceptions and a lot of money , is pretty much a bore - if story is important to you . Michael Mann is a talented director and knows how to move action sequences and capture vistas and light versus darkness , and he can be reliable in creating character interplay . Can be , but in Miami VICE there doesn't seem to be a script to follow . . . Some of the more exciting actors in the field today were employed to deliver this movie about drug deals , undercover agents , and lots of violence , but they are wooden and seem to be reading their few lines from a TV prompter . There is just no character development to speak of , no camaraderie between Rico and Sonny - factor that made the old TV show watchable . But the cast is sterling : Colin Farrell ( who needs a good meaty role before his allure falters ) , the fine Jamie Foxx ( terribly out of his element here ) , a miscast flat Gong Li ( ? why ? ) , the excellent Naomie Harris ( by far the strongest character in the film ) , Elizabeth Rodriquez , Justin Theroux , Ciarán Hinds ( with an awful southern accent ) , and a set of new bad guys well chosen in Isaach De Bankolé , John Ortiz , and Luis Tosar . With talent like that you'd think the thing could fly on its own . But despite some really gorgeous photography there just isn't anyone or anything to maintain the viewer's interest for the interminable 214 minutes of run time . One is left with the question ' Wha happened ? ' Grady Harp
For Lovers of Video Games	DOOM , believe it or not , is based on a video game ! With all the literature of the world , all the fine screenplays that are stacked on the shelves , all the creative stories that languish in the ' not for profit probably ' bins , it seems a raw commentary on today's movie audiences to spend millions of dollars on a game everyone who cares already knows . But , movies are business and box office demands take precedence . As the narrator of the film states , ' In the year 2026 archaeologists working in the Nevada desert discovered a portal to an ancient city on Mars . They call this portal the Ark . Twenty years later , we're still struggling to understand why it was built and what happened to the civilization that built it ' is the apparent ' story ' . What follows is a series of conflicts between killers transforming into beasts right out of Hieronymous Bosch and Francis Bacon only to bloody up the claustrophobic computer generated interiors with occasional transmogrifications into mercurial clouds only to reappear . Much slaughter , much eye dazzling color manipulation , and ever so little story line fill the screen . The participants in this real time game are The Rock ( he needs a role that uses his talent ) , hunky Karl Urban , Dexter Fletcher , Rosamond Pike , and Richard Brake - all squashed around the set by director and head gladiator Andrej Bartkowiak . Though not meant to be , this film can actually be fun to watch as a hilarious parody of scientific world events . Visually and content-wise it wears thin after about a half hour . Grady Harp
A Very Slow Evening	Honoré De Balzac's novel ' La Duchesse Du Langeais ' has been transformed by screenwriter Pascal Bonitzer for the screen as ' Ne Touchez Pas a la Hache ' and the result is a mixture of proscenium stage pictures , and scenes separated by written dialog that merely lets the viewer know such unnecessary details such as that fact that time has passed , and well over two hours of an uninvolved courtship between a sensualist and a coquette . While it is a pleasure to remember the times of Balzac and his way with lusty themes , watching this film version can be tedious - at best . Fans of director Jacques Rivette will find much to enjoy in this adaptation : the pacing of the film feels important to his concept of the development of the story - the stifling boredom of the evenings of balls in Paris and the isolation of the soldiers ' lives , deprived of the companionship of lovely ladies . He has cast Jeanne Balibar as the title character Antoinette De Langeais , a married lady of means with a penchant for flirting and coquettish behavior with important men , and Guillaume Depardieu as General Armand De Montriveau , a war hero who lost his leg and returns to Paris vulnerable for love , namely in the instant attraction to Antoinette . The tale is one of a game of the General's passionate love and the duchess ' toying with his advances until a climax is reached which changes the approach of each character with rather disastrous consequences for both . As a period piece the film works well : the costumes and settings are splendid and the scenes in the endless ballrooms are full of grace and lovely music . But the flow of the encounters between Antoinette and Armand are an interminable series of momentary repetitious encounters with a sound track that seems bent on capturing the opening and closing of doors and the loud pacing of the crippled general as he enters and leaves the naughty lady's chamber . There is little to draw us into caring for the characters and after the first hour and a half of the film the courtship begs our indulgence . In French with English subtitles . Definitely recommended for fans of Jacques Rivette's films or Balzac's stories , but a ' long song ' for casual viewers . Grady Harp
Fluff yes , but played for all its worth by a fine cast	MUST LOVE DOGS is everything you'd expect it to be with a title like that : a silly rehash of internet dating , this time with older candidates all recently divorced , trying not to appear to ridiculous in this cyberworld of instant matchmaking . The script is weak , the story old hat , but with a cast like this , who cares ? Watching the likes of Diane Lane , Elizabeth Perkins , John Cusack , Stockard Channing , Dermot Mulroney , and Christopher Plummer in an ensemble covers a lot of cracks in a flimsy script . The overall effect seems to be one of an attempt to make a statement about the current conditions of relationships in the computer age among divorced people . It doesn't : it just throws out a lot of clichés which are delivered with as much panache as possible by this cast of talented actors , seemingly on break ! Grady Harp
Enough Already !	The current glut of good cop / bad cop movies has drained all the energy of future similar stories and PRIDE AND GLORY is as good example of this satiated appetite as they come . Despite some riveting performances by a group of some of our better actors - Edward Norton , Colin Farrell , Jon Voight , Noah Emmerich and Jennifer Ehle - the very obvious committee written ( Joe Carnahan , Gavin O'Connor , Gregory O'Connor and Robert Hopes ) story and screenplay simply falls apart at every gross killing and murder scene . Gavin O'Connor's direction fails to propel the action in a credible manner , allowing incidental sidebars that add nothing except hole patching to the film . The story is so overused that a synopsis is unnecessary : an Irish family of cops stumbles along the way of law and order , falling into the business of stealing and murder to cover their misdeeds , until one of the brothers has the courage to ' go straight ' to make amends for his own past infractions . One of the early distractions in viewing this film about contemporary New York crime and law enforcement foibles is a soundtrack that buries the dialogue . It is doubtful that the viewer can even follow the story without the help of English subtitles to compensate for the inaudible spoken word , but then so often the script is so weak that perhaps this is not a flaw but a benefit . This is a film for those who deeply admire the work of the main actors , but brace yourselves for a film that in the end is simply annoying . Grady Harp
' The Black Dahlia ' : A Misnomer of a Title	Brian de Palma made an odd decision in creating this apparently very expensive , very strange and confusing version of a film , a movie less about the grisly / twisted unsolved murder ( grossly illustrated ad infinitum here ) of a wannabe 1940s actress of the title and more about two boxer cops ( bland Josh Hartnett as ' Mr . Ice ' and over the top Aaron Eckhart as ' Mr . Fire ' ) and their bizarre ménage a trois with unfocused Scarlett Johansson . The film as written by Josh Friedman attempts to follow the novel by James Ellroy , itself a strange riff on the Black Dahlia murder . What results is an over produced , over directed , under realized recreation of the 1940s complete with slicky costumes and very loud music by ( surprisingly ! ) Mark Isham . There are so many subplots filled with walk on characters that keeping the story understandable is almost impossible - certainly not worth an attempt to capsulize for a review . There are some terrific little performances by Fiona Shaw as the druggie mad woman whose role becomes significant only at film's end , Hilary Swank as the copycat Dahlia who dallies in cops and soldiers and lesbians ( convincingly so ) , and Mia Kirshner who presence as the true Black Dahlia is shown only in black and white film clips that indeed focus the unwieldy script while she is on ! Odd to see actors with the credentials of this cast wandering around in la-la land seemingly looking for a script that makes sense . But it is a pretty period piece to look at despite the lack of reasonable storyline . Grady Harp
Maybe we're just not supposed to understand the occult world	DARKNESS is a movie struggling under the burden of an impossibly puerile script . Had the writer Fernando de Felipe and director / writer Jaume Balagueró taken a bit more time to develop the underlying basis for this Gothic suspense excursion into night they may have had a stronger result . As it is the reasons for all of the occult intervention in a strange house somewhere in Spain comes in bits and pieces and ultimately seem barely interesting and silly . Mark ( Iain Glen ) , his wife Maria ( Lena Olin ) and their two children Regina ( Anna Paquin ) and Paul ( Stephan Enquist ) move into an old house unoccupied for forty years , a house that has problematic electricity and water and odd sounds that go bump in the night . The family's doctor / grandfather Albert Rua ( Giancarlo Giannini ) appears at times when the family needs support and in this new home those times proliferate . Mark is afflicted with a disease called ' Harrington Syndrome ' which causes episodes of wild behavior supposedly controlled by meds which nurse wife Maria administers . Paul is the most frightened or sensitive to the bizarre occurrences that happen only in the dark : he gains strange bruises , sees darkened children , notices movements and other nocturnal scaries . Regina is the comfort to Paul and believes the ' delusions ' his father and mother deny and seeks help from a local lad Carlos ( Fele Martínez ) who researches the house and discovers that it was built by an architect ( a man who stalks the house at night ) who informs Carlos that the house was built for strange reasons : a ritual occurred forty years ago involving the death of six children ( meant to be seven but one escaped ) . It is only with the death of that seventh child at the hands of one who loves him that the curse will be lifted . Yes , this is really the tale . . . how this disintegrating family comes to grips with the dark history and demands of the house and who is to be the seventh ' child ' is the gist of the story . Had the writers given us more perhaps we would care more , but with so many threads of unexplained twists and turns the suspense fails to peak . The actors , having such poor material from which to work , stumble through the tale without gaining our concern or support . The saving grace of this outing is in the moody cinematography by Xavi Giménez : the look of the film is excellent enough to justify simply turning off the sound track to allow your imagination to make a story out of the visuals . And to add insult to injury the closing lines of this unresolved ' story ' seem to open the door for a sequel , heaven forbid ! Grady Harp
A Little Lark	THE WEDDING DATE gives the viewer everything that could be expected from the title - vapid story , implausible situation , an array of clothes and pretty people , and a story that can be followed while reading the paper or browsing a magazine . But what makes this little film charming is the degree of commitment from such solid actors as Dermot Mulroney and even Debra Messing . They make the fluff fluffier and palatable and before you know it you're actually watching the final half of the movie ! This is a ' no great shakes ' movie , sort of an extended TV sitcom , but take it for what it is ( why else would you have rented / bought it ? ) and it is a pleasant diversion . And they keep making these movies for a reason . . . . Grady Harp
Usher is a bright presence on the screen	IN THE MIX is a fairly routine Hollywood gig on mixing spinning with mob crime sidebars and interracial relationships . It isn't a great movie but it does give Usher a chance to strut his stuff in a remarkably subdued and charismatic fashion . Darrell ( Usher ) is a spinner in a club , a start at a dream of owning his own recording industry . He is asked to spin discs for the surprise birthday party of law student Dolly ( Emmanuelle Chriqui ) , the wealthy daughter of crime boss Frank ( Chazz Palminteri ) . Darrell and Frank have been friends a long time having shared parental tragedies : there is also a chemistry in the making between the time reunited Darrell and ' engaged ' Dolly . An attempt is made on Frank's life and Darrell bravely takes the bullet . Frank assigns Darrell as Dolly's bodyguard and through a series of assassination attempts and crime busts Darrell and Dolly are drawn closer . How Frank deals with this new ' development ' as well as coping with the opposing mobsters plays out the fairly obvious story . Usher has presence and despite the fact that he is not given screen time for his dancing , he is given ample time as eye candy and as an actor who deals well with both comedy and action . His interaction with Chriqui is palpably on target . The remainder of the cast do what they can with a weak script , but director Ron Underwood keeps the action and reaction going at an entertaining pace . This is not a great movie , but it is entertaining and introduces Usher to the screen in a well-prepared debut . Grady Harp
' Made for TV ' Look and Substance - the Old Way	In a time when made for television films from HBO in particular and Showtime et al seem to be taking more chances with riskier topics than those flooding the theater screens , along comes CARRY ME HOME with a thud that hearkens back to the whiny tearjerkers of twenty years ago . While the premise of the story appears to be warm coming of age of a young girl with only a single mother to guide her growth , the film fragments with so many subplots that are quickly and incautiously pasted together in the end , resolving everything in a shallow overly sentimental and unsatisfying mess . Marlboro , NY 1947 , a time when the country is recovering from WW II , which includes the families of GIs killed in the war and the economy in ruins . Harriet ( Penelope Ann Miller ) keeps together her household of two children - Carrie ( Ashley Rose Orr ) and Brian ( Harrison Chad ) - by being a seamstress to the likes of Mrs . Gortimer ( Jane Alexander ) , a town gossip and matchmaker who is advising Harriet to pay attention to the return of Bernard ( David Alan Rasche ) as a potential ' marrying kind ' . Harriet spends her days working and remembering her GI husband killed in the war . Daughter Carrie is approaching puberty and yet refuses to behave like a girl , wearing her father's dogtags and jeans , running instead with a group of boys including her younger brother and two other lads . The ' gang ' has a secret clubhouse , make mischief , taunt the mentally challenged neighbor Charlie ( Kevin Anderson ) , unfortunate son of Grizzle ( Leo Burmester ) who abuses his unwanted son by forcing him to live in a barn . Charlie's only friends are the puppies he treasures . The destructive pranks played on pathetic Charlie include stealing one of his pups , destroying the food garden of Grizzle , pouring sugar in the gas tank of Grizzle's John Deere tractor , etc . In other words this little group of kids is cruel and their shenanigans are mean-spirited . Harriet finds it impossible to control the behavior of Carrie and quite out of keeping with the 1940s family unit , Carrie sasses her mother viciously and in general is an unlikable brat . When Bernard begins his courtship of Harriet the prospect of Harriet's finding a modicum of happiness is undermined by Carrie's behavior . In a particularly cruel evening's prank , Grizzle's garden is destroyed , Charlie is reduced to self-mutilation because of the stealing of his pup , and the lowly barn in which he lives is destroyed by fire . Grizzle and Charlie survive and the effect of this final disaster on the lives of Harriet and her children and their ' emotional awakening ' serves to make a hanky call and end the story with an unsatisfying bump . The script by Christopher Fay is pedestrian , leaving the film with poorly motivated characters about whom it is difficult to care . Penelope Ann Miller tries her best to make the most out of Harriet , but Ashley Rose Orr renders one of the least likable young girls on film . This is a black and white script without motivation . Jace Alexander directs , which probably explains why his mother Jane Alexander consented to do the tiny walk-on part to give the film attention . The crew manages to make the mood of America in the post-war years plausible , but the dialogue assigned to the characters undermines those attempts . There must be an audience for these soap opera films : it is a shame this one couldn't have been better . Grady Harp
A Summer Doldrums Filler of a Film	Reading reviews of this slight little ' comedy ' , it seems the positive accolades come primarily from people who have been waiters : that is a good thing because it means writer / director Rob McKittrick managed to duplicate the experiences ' behind the scenes ' of our eating establishments with authority . But a film that is self-absorbed about the manner in which a disparate group of young people spend their boring lives avoiding adulthood in a restaurant , aptly named Shenanigan's here , is a National Lampoon type potty mouth series of one liners that has little to recommend it unless you've experienced the life of a waitperson . The glimmers of light that manage to come through are due primarily to the easy nonchalance of Ryan Reynolds ' acting . Otherwise the ' storyline ' is a gaggle of gross-out in jokes that after the first fifteen minutes become numbing . It has been stated that this is a potential cult movie and supposedly that puts it in a class with ' Harold and Maude ' ( not in the same class at all ! ) , the ' Rocky Horror Show ' , etc . There must be an audience for this type film because they just keep grinding them out . Ah , commercialism ! Grady Harp
Deliciously Silly Sequel : Laughter Returns to the Comic Books !	BLADE-TRINITY is a fantastical ride of a movie that even those of us fatigued by the larger-than-life comic book hero flicks literally poured out weekly onto the hungry theater big screens can tolerate . The production values make the most of clever weird appliances and nasty structural situations that defy reason : the animation ( vampire Pomeranian dogs , transformation costumes for Dracula AKA Drake , conflagration disintegration of human bodies by the silver tip , human blood farms , endless variations on the vampire denture appliances , etc ) is entertaining as is the copycat choreography from the CTHD ilk of films . The cast of characters has broadened , some with bit parts played by big names , others by naughty funny parts played by newcomers . Wesley Snipes has little acting to do as Blade , the daytripper semiVampire , but his presence is strong . Kris Kristofferson was plugged into the story as a non-additive cameo with Jessica Biel as his daughter , the one who leads the Blade Aides , Parker Posey is given a tour de force role as a really bad Vampirette , and yet another fine Australian import Dominic Purcell makes a handsome Drake / Dracula . But for the new viewers some of the best parts of this entertaining blood bath enter in the form of Ryan Reynolds as Hannibal King , a hunky , buff grossly under used actor with a keen sense of comic timing who can bring script lines alive with his delivery and light up the screen every time he is given the chance . This comedic touch , a tongue in cheek approach to the silly story , is taken up by all the characters but with less successful effect . Reynolds just makes it work ! You gotta be in the mood for this kind of film , but at last here is a comic book scary hero movie that is full of entertaining laughs - and that is somewhat of a first ! Grady Harp , February 06
Interesting to See State of the Art Computer Generated Graphics	Never a fan of the comic book hero outings , this viewer watched X-MEN - THE LAST STAND with a bit of mental prejudice : action heroes capable of destroying everything in sight at the glance of a weird eye or the motion of a hand have just never seemed entertaining . But given that stance , watching this very colorful film was an art study in how far computer generated graphics have come in a relatively short time . And that makes the time spent on the non-story worthwhile . Of course it is always a pleasure to see Sir Ian McKellen , Hugh Jackman , Halle Berry , Rebecca Romijn , James Marsden , Patrick Stewart , and the newly buff Ben Foster in action : nice costume effects despite overdone makeup etc . But the story is so slim that it can be ignored and the viewer can watch the rather extraordinary special effects - until they ultimately wear thin ( as when the house lifts off the ground , etc ! ) . So advice for those fellow viewers who avoid these Marvel Comic movies : drop the prejudice long enough to see what is au courante in special effects . It is rather entertaining . . . for a while . Grady Harp
Viktor's Wings as the Star of the Show	Some movies are created for special effects carnivals : a subservient storyline serves merely as the glue to hold together 106 minutes of action . Films such as UNDERWORLD - EVOLUTION is one of this genre and if the viewers take it for that they won't be disappointed . Writer ( with Danny McBride ) and Director Len Wiseman pulled out all the unused parts of the original UNDERWORLD and have recycled them and magnified them into a sequel starring Wiseman's wife Kate Beckinsale and he knows how to make it work . The script for the film is probably only a few pages long so the bulk of the piece is action . And here the real stars appear : Production Design by Patrick Tatopoulos , Art Direction by Chris August , Set Decoration by Lin MacDonald and Costume Design by Wendy Partridge are only a few of the names that deserve the credit for the success . Everything is shot in a shade of blue ( Simon Duggan is the cinematographer ) but of course that is appropriate because it all takes place at night when vampires can function . The story is rather easy to condense : lycans vs vampires with a cross section of a hybrid to spice things up come into a centuries old conflict struggle for power . More than that is unnecessary to know . Kate Beckinsale is ever beautiful and is such a fine actress that she brings some warmth to this comic book heroine . But the rest of the cast is paralyzed by silly dialogue and that holds down the likes of Derek Jacobi , Scott Speedman , unintentionally hilarious bad guy Bill Nighy , Michael Sheen , etc . But keep your eyes focused on the locks , the wonderful wings of Viktor with all that they can do , and the entertainingly gruesome and ultimately tiring ' turning ' of men into distortions of werewolves . As for Beckinsale and Speedman , they make a nice couple , but it is more a ' blood in , blood out ' romance . Not for the squeamish or those who look for story , but for what it is UNDERWORLD part II and obviously to be continued is a special effects delight . Grady Harp
Lots of Story Threads and Variety of Actors Stumbling to Find a Plot	THE LAST DROP could have been a better WW II film had the writer and director decided on the focus . The directorial choices vary from very fine ( mixing black and white grainy shots from war footage with stagy though competent settings in color ) to questionable ( allowing a musical score including steel guitar music and contemporary sounds to intrude into a time when such instrumentation was not even known ) to mediocre ( allowing the actors to be caricatures instead of players in a tense drama ) . Essentially the story is set before Christmas with the dropping of troops via gliders into Holland to secure a secret mission involving looted Nazi treasure . The Germans are fast-driving to capture it and send it to Berlin before the Allies land . The British team is determined to maintain custody of the goods until war's end . And then of course there is a group of self-promoting Germans who simply want to capture the treasure for their own reward . Not a bad set of conflicts , but the film's problems are centered on some bad casting choices that prevent the momentum from being as relentlessly forward as good war films should . Some of the cast members look so much alike that it becomes difficult to determine just who is who : in one case this is intentional as the plot reveals in its ending , but in most cases it is a problem due to cramped dialects , stiff acting , and over the top parody . With the exception of Billy Zane and Michael Madsen there are no big names here and in many ways that is a good thing because the two stars are the weakest characters . Though the plot outline has possibilities - what is war but greed under different names - the mixture of ribald humor and gut-wrenching realism fail to make the story work . Grady Harp
The Question Arises : Why Was This Film Made ?	Maria Solrun wrote and directed this slim film that purports to be a coming of age film ( yes , yet another ! ) with too few variations from the ordinary to make it remarkable . Picture This ! productions can usually be counted on to bring us interesting conceptual films : this one simply doesn't belong . Jargo ( Constantin von Jascheroff ) is a German lad brought up in Saudi Arabia , an ordinary boy whose father ( Udo Kier ) admonishes him that he must ' become a man ' before his 16th birthday ( we're not sure what that entails . . . ) . Moving to Berlin , Jargo maintains his Arabian clothing until he encounters a similar aged German Turk Kamil ( Oktay Ozdemir ) and here begins his introduction into the world of juvenile cool ( read delinquency ) . Kamil has a girlfriend Mona ( Nora von Waldstatten ) who catches Jargo's eye more than the ripe but wise Emilia ( Josefine Preuss ) . As Jargo and Kamil bond , Jargo's father's image continues to admonish him that he must ' become a man ' and Jargo's clouded psyche both imitates and rejects his father's history , leading to significant changes in Jargo's ' coming of age ' and his relationship with his new found friends . The script is flimsy and pointless and aside from some young actors who please the camera ( Preuss and von Jascheroff ) , there really is very little to maintain interest for an hour and a half . Even the featurettes with conversations allowing Solrun to verbalize her film concept can't save this ordinary little movie . There are many more very fine little films about youths facing adulthood : this isn't one of them . Grady Harp
Chasing Stories in the Haven of Grand Cayman	Frank E . Flowers is a newcomer to the cinema scene and his early outing HAVEN shows both the flaws and strengths of early work . Seemingly under the influence of the current successful trend of movies with multiple stories that are shot in cross sequence to show enigmatic interrelationships ( BABEL , TRAFFIC , CRASH , THE HOURS , etc ) , Flowers attempts to tie together big crime drama with intimate love story and the result , at this stage of film-making , is disjointed and aching for a good film editor . There are moments - but they require patience on the part of the viewer to stay with the film to the strange ending . The big crime idea is placed in the hands of Bill Paxton who with his daughter ( Agnes Bruckner of DREAMLAND ) takes his ' off shore money ' from Miami to Grand Cayman island under the tutelage of smarmy lawyer Stephen Dillane . An island character ( Victor Rasuk - a very promising young find from RAISING VICTOR VARGAS , LORDS OF DOGTOWN ) begins to put the play on Bruckner , a factor that involves him as an islander in the big crime syndicate from the US . Bump . Next story involves Orlando Bloom as a listless wanderer in love with an island beauty ( Zoe Saldana ) whose family objects to the liaison . The brother ( Anthony Mackie - who continues to find depth in roles in films like BROTHER TO BROTHER , HALF NELSON , THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE etc ) rages after Bloom , scarring him for life . The interplay within each story is well enough focused but the apparent compare-and-contrast motive of weaving these two disparate yet core-similar stories together is a problem for Flowers . The cast is a mixed bag , with some superb actors along side some wannabes . And oddly the top actors ( such as Bobby Cannavale ) are placed in less important roles than some of the lesser experienced ones . The film is pretty to look at , has its moments , and shows promise , but it is not one to place on the ' must see ' list . Grady Harp
Not so Cool	This film COOL ! is the last film made by Theo van Gogh , a vociferous advocate for free speech and the great-great-grandson of Theo van Gogh , brother of the famous Vincent van Gogh , before he was murdered in 2004 by Muslim extremist following a television documentary on the mistreatment of women in the Islam sector . That fact alone gives some reason to watching this low budget , moderately effective movie . One wonders what other projects might have followed from this man's creative output : COOL ! is not a great epitaph . Life in contemporary city streets in Holland finds a small group of Moroccan adolescents whose rather gentle leader is Abdel ( Fouad Mourigh ) , challenged by a life of idealism but propelled by the financial rewards of small crime . One major , though young , gangster is Prof ( Johnny de Mol ) who manipulates Abdel's boys into a bank heist arranged by Prof and his girl Mabel ( Katja Schuurman ) . The heist is thwarted by undercover cops and Abdel and his gang are placed in a reformatory school where they are to learn the ways to fit into society rather than remain on the unsuccessful periphery . They resist at first but gradually learn though group therapy the benefits of self respect , respect for their fellowmen , and finding goals for turning their nebulous lives around . They are offered passes from the school and during one of those passes an incident occurs when tempted to return to their old ways , an incident that capitalizes on the reform school teachings . van Gogh's technique for filming this rather lack-luster story was to utilize Hip Hop not only for the background music but also for conveying some of the dialogue of the film . That impairs involvement as it creates more of a vaudeville atmosphere to a serious story . The cast simply isn't strong enough to pull off this caper film , despite some fine moments from Mourigh and Schuurman . The message is clear but the method dilutes it into a too blatant form of preaching . In Dutch and Arabic with subtitles . Grady Harp , December 05
A Rather Routine Sci-Fi Thriller - with a Major Exception	Who can tell why this film was made ? FORCE OF IMPACT ( aka DEADLY SKIES ) was apparently made for TV though it seems highly unlikely that it was ever screened . Not that the story itself is a problem : giant asteroid is sailing toward the earth with the potential of destroying the planet unless someone is smart enough to out guess the logistics . In this film the smart one is Rae Dawn Chong in a role she can sleep walk through . The government is not eager for her company to employ its ' better than government issue ' strategies : Rob LaBelle and Michael Moriarty have a great time being mean . But it is Rea dawn Chong who remembers a terrific mind in the form of Antonio Sabato , Jr . who can save the planet . . . . And that is where the difference lies - Chong encounters Sabato and his lover Michael Boisvert en flagrante in a completely nude sex scene that is as sensual as any found in the movies . Nothing much is made of the reason for Sabato to be gay and that is good : he just happens to be a gay man in a healthy relationship , and the chemistry with Boisvert is definitely there . But that is about all we get , other than an opening scene when two beautiful young au naturel women make it in a swimming pool while a mini-asteroid collides in the water . So it is another routine space age flick , but add to the salad the eye candy offered , and it is almost worth sitting through the movie ! Pretty people help keep this one afloat .
Beneath the Hoopla is a Lot of Parody and Metaphor	Damion Dietz ( Neverland , The Virgin Larry , Fag Hag , Respect My Ass ) is a director and writer who obviously has a great time putting together his genre of films . What seems to be over the top , silly , absurdly ridiculous situational comedies have a singular bite . Take the time to listen to the lines and observe the parodies and there is a lot of social comment that deserves some attention . The plot is loose : Beverly Jackson ( Gary Kelley - a buff , masculine guy in obviously absurd drag ) is a wannabe actor who is denied a role in an upcoming musical at the Pride Playhouse : this sets off the idea of revenge that is supposed to be the main line of the plot but gets sidetracked by all the other antics . We encounter broken relationships , lonely guys , new relationships , arrivals to Hollywood from all over the country who long to become stars and end up being ' stand-in celebrities ' for the tourists along the Hollywood Boulevard . Beverly gathers the guys and gals who have auditioned and plans a terrorist , martyrdom attack at Hollywood and Highland as a means of making a statement about the unstable way of life and irony of the promised land of dreams . Of course it all goes awry , but it does so with some very pretty people and , given the tenor of the script , some impressive introductions of talent . The quality of acting must be judged on the requirements of the project and these folks play their roles very well indeed . There are some funny musical numbers , the requisite amount of bare skin to keep the eyes entertained , and in the short and long of it BEVERLY KILLS makes no pretense at being anything but what it is - a spoof , waaaaaay over the top independent edgy film , and actually quite a bit of fun . Relax folks , this is like a backyard summer charade . Watch it for what it is and enjoy the numerous quite fine talents , both male and female . Grady Harp , June 06
A Hodgepodge Movie Trying to Figure Out What It Wants to Be	LAND OF THE BLIND is a strange horse of a film . It is so full of gimmicks , silly scenes , awkward dialogue , and mixed metaphors that it sinks under its own intended farcical weight . Robert Edwards wrote and directed this take off on totalitarian governments and the crises that arise with the corruption of power , sprayed it globally and historically so that it can include everyone in its aim , and shot it in a Felliniesque fashion that just falls short of significance . Abetted with a strong cast of actors ( Ralph Fiennes , Donald Sutherland , Tom Hollander , Lara Flynn Boyle , etc ) one would think this overproduced piece would have made it . But alas is sinks into somnolence despite its oh-so-very-obvious attempt to be a significant statement about politics today . The biggest task required for this movie is trying to stay awake to the final frame .
Editor ! Editor !	POSTER BOY is a film with a lot of potential : the story premise is solid ( though a bit tired ) , the cast of both young and experienced actors is quite fine , and there are some worthwhile statements about our political system , about tolerance and acceptance and family , and about being true to yourself . Despite all of these aspects that should have made a fine little film the whole thing bogs down with some of the worst editing and camera work on record . That , and the writers ' ( Lecia Rosenthal and Ryan Shiraki ) need to place platitudes into normal conversation is most distracting . Zak Tucker as director just didn't seem to have control of this piece . The story itself is rather simple . Through the gimmick of a confession to a reporter we meet handsome young Henry Kray ( the talented Matt Newton ) , gay since early teens but electing to keep his private life a secret , who is the son of Senator Jack Kray ( Michael Lerner ) and his lovely but docile wife Eunice ( the fine Karen Allen ) . It seems that six months prior to the time we are invited into the conversation Henry met Anthony ( hunky Jack Noseworthy ) whose roommate is HIV positive Izzie ( Valerie Geffner ) . Henry and Anthony have a one-night stand the day before Jack Kray is to give a speech for re-election at Henry's college . The Senator accidentally hits Izzie with his car and Eunice insists Izzie stay with them in their suite where the two women bond . Meanwhile Henry's night with Anthony makes him late for the speech , but a talk to Henry from Jack before the speech telling him what to say ( Jack is the best father , loves family values , etc ) sticks in Henry's throat and soon after he obeys his father's wishes for the speech introduction , Henry turns to his table partner Anthony and the two kiss openly as the Senator is addressing the crowd - all caught by the media of course . How this moment of honesty alters the lives of everyone around is the crux of the ending . Not a bad tale , but the camera work is so patchy and disconcertingly disconnected that it defies the viewer to keep the storyline straight . But if the viewer can keep up visually , the performances by the cast are well worth attention . There is some very fine talent on the screen of this B movie ! Grady Harp
Turgid Stuff , This	While no one would fault a writer / director from wanting to depict just how low life can descend , making a film script that is three-quarters repeated expletives and tiresome current slang terms ( ' dude ' , ' dog ' etc in place of names ) wears thin after the first half hour of HARSH TIMES . One wonders if David Ayer wanted to create the feeling in the theater ( or living room ! ) just with the tenor of the film . The story is so minimal that it needn't be summarized other than to say it is the downward spiral of an ex-army man ( Christian Bale ) and a wishy-washy burned out failure ( Freddy Rodriguez ) as they ignore the needs of the women who care about them ( a strong Eva Longoria ) and choose instead to drink , smoke pot , and act like bad children . The cast is a strong one - in search of a script that means something - but even Christian Bale and Freddy Rodriguez can't rescue this deflating balloon . It is just a sad film all the way around . Grady Harp
A Gritty Story in the Seediest Red Light District of Paris	PIGALLE has all the ingredients of a splendid little exposé of the infamous sector of crime in the City of Light . The problem is there is so little actual ' light ' in the camera work that much of what happens in this film cannot be seen ! Pigalle is an area in Paris infamous for being an historic and a current zone of drug conclaves , prostitution ( both male and female and every cross in between ) , peep show and strip clubs , junkies , thieves and murderers . In this mire swell all of the characters of this story . Divine ( Blanca Li ) is a transvestite performer in a club run by fellow transvestite Fernande ( Raymond Gil ) and Divine is in love with Fifi ( Francis Renaud ) , a male street hustler and thief who in addition to his affair with Divine has an ongoing flirtation with Véra ( Véra Briole ) , a woman who works as a stripper and peep show dancer but refuses to be a prostitute . Véra lives with her pimp Jésus le Gitan ( Patrick Chauvel ) whose primary occupation is drug dealing . Add to this smarmy group a large cast of deviates and druggies and hardcore criminals and you have the populace of Pigalle . The story involves the murders of both Divine and Jésus : the drug lords ' convince ' Véra to talk Fifi into being the hit man to revenge the killings . How all of this fits together - the consequences of betrayal and the desperate need for love that consumes each of the main characters - brings the tale to a grisly close . This is a tale of survival in the amoral streets of Pigalle and writer / director Karim Dridi certainly knows how to create atmosphere commensurate with his story . There is excessive drug use , violence , and loathing that at times threaten to drown the little story , but were it filmed in any other way it would not have the impact that permeates this 1994 French film . In French with English subtitles , Not recommended for the squeamish , but recommended for those who enjoy film noir ! Grady Harp
Know why you elected to watch it and you're OK	Luc Besson and Louis Leterrier created such a terrific action thriller with THE TRANSPORTER in 2002 , giving Jason Statham the opportunity to create a man of crime so clever and dignified that the film was an instant success . And so what does that mean in movieland ? If a little is good , a lot is better . Wrong ! As is often the case with sequels the initial creative bite gets diluted as though success of the original will carry the sequel without much work . In the case of TRANSPORTER 2 the story and supporting cast border on the ridiculous , but if you're watching the film just to see Jason Statham in action , then you'll be satisfied . The appealing aspect of Transporter 1 was the setting - the French Riviera that served as a gorgeous background for all the derring-do of a top-notch cast . Now in Miami , in a role far less interesting than the original plot of Transporter 1 , the film strains credibility and that detracts from the thrills . But the good news is that Jason Statham is intact and as fascinating and dexterous as ever . You just have to settle for that ( which is a lot ) and the movie will satisfy . Let's hope they don't make Statham consider a T 3 . Grady Harp
Swiss Cheese of a Script and the Audience is One of the Holes	PERFECT STRANGER is a fast-paced little crime mystery of a film that despite the innumerable sidebars of undeveloped information scattered throughout the script does manage to surprise the audience at the end . The movie seems to be a vehicle for the beautiful Halle Berry to show off her skills and other assets : Bruce Willis is billed as a co-star but his role is minor and unexpectedly underplayed - a nice little tour de force for the king of action flicks . Berry plays a reporter with a man's nom de plume that allows her to uncover secrets of famous people for newsy stories . Once fired from her job for uncovering the deeds of a Senator who is promoted by her newspaper , she teams her good buddy Giovanni Ribisi , a wizard of information about the media and internet spying , and the two go after a wealthy ad executive ( Bruce Willis ) when the murder of one of Berry's old girlfriends stirs both her wrath and her own secret demons . The chase is on with Berry playing games of deceit backed by the skills of Ribisi . And just when the plot seems to have uncovered the murderer , then another line of story involving Ribisi and Berry explodes the audience's tracking of the crime with a rather good ending . Berry is fine in her role as is Ribisi with his : Willis is not on the screen long enough to form an opinion , a fact that is actually rather a refreshing twist ! The camera loves Berry in all her glamour and manages to turn sordid when the plot elements necessitate that . It is a fair evening's diversion and were it not for all the ' dropped ideas ' that plead development , it would be a stronger thriller . Grady Harp
May December Romance on a Texas Ranch	No , this is not another version on the Brokeback Mountain theme though the title might give that impression . This little Indie film made on a shoestring budget is more like an updated Farmer's Daughter story and as such it has some charm . Justin ( the very hunky Thomas Romano ) is an ad executive whose father sends him on his first solo run to a place in Texas . While driving to his appointment Justin swerves to avoid a rabbit in the road and his car gets stuck in a ditch that just happens to be in front of the home of Jack ( Paul Bright , who also wrote and directed the film ) and his loony senile father . Jack's life partner died a few years back and he is determined his plight in life is to live in solitude as caretaker for his father . Justin is invited to spend the night while his car is fixed by the local tow truck / mechanic . And the story unfolds from there into a May December romance that while it may not be acted very well at all , has its moments of warmth . The plot has enough twists to keep the attention span enduring the amateur acting status ( both fathers figure significantly in surprising ways ) and the cast of animals and eccentricities maintain attention . But the eye candy provided by Thomas Romano is the strong point - if only he could act . . . . Grady Harp
Too Much , yet not Enough , of a Good Thing	In 1985 sculptor Chris Van Allsburg published his first children's book , THE POLAR EXPRESS , which became an instant classic , especially appropriate for family reading during the holidays . The beauty of the book was not only a simple story about a lad's discovery of the real meaning of Christmas , but also the power of Allburg's glorious art - which was awarded with the Caldecott Medal in 1986 . Some of that book is retained and some of that is lost in this grossly overproduced , extravagantly expensive , film transition of the book . For reasons only known to director Robert Zemeckis , who also adapted the story for his film , and to his long time friend Tom Hanks , the decision was made to make not just an animated feature and not a computer enhanced film using actors , but a strange amalgamation of the two . We are seeing puppet-like characters morphed to resemble real people - and that must have caused the animators headaches but earned big money ! But despite the bigger than life extravaganza version of basically an intimate story , the theme comes through and the message is sweet . Whether the ' fillers ' heavily frosted on this version are additive is up to the taste of the viewer . But it is a tour de force for Hanks who plays almost everyone in the film , and it is evident that the film's heart is in the right place . Grady Harp
Have your Cake and Eat it , Too	Director Nisha Ganatra and writer Tassie Cameron seem to have most of their experience in TV movies so this little slice of the industry is a change for them . Would that it were wholly successful because it seems as though both had a fine idea for something to say but just didn't know how to make it work . And again , blame the PR folks for making a cover for the DVD that not only seems silly , it has little to do with the story inside . Pippa McGee ( Heather Graham ) is a travel writer , a hedonist , and an independent woman who avoids relationships like the plague . The film starts with a goofus dash for a wedding in which she is once again a bridesmaid on the run . After the ceremony she jokes with her best friend Lulu ( Sandra Oh ) who is equally against long term relationships beyond a quick shag , and she also meets one Ian ( David Sutcliffe - Under the Tuscan Sun , Testosterone , Happy Endings etc ) , a handsome if shy young man who though attracted to Pippa , sees her as dangerous territory . Pippa soon discovers that her father Malcolm McGee ( Bruce Gray ) , a wealthy successful owner of a magazine conglomerate , is ill , has a heart attack , and though the father and daughter have had a negligible relationship , Pippa offers her help . Of course , her assignment is to be editor of ' Wedding Bells ' magazine her departed mother started , and Pippa takes on the epitome of everything she loathes about relationships and marriage and tries to make a go of it . She discovers that Ian is her father's vice president and thus in charge of her new and loathed assignment . Pippa partners with the handsome magazine photographer Hemingway Jones ( Taye Diggs ) , has a fling , and becomes close friends and partners in an attempt to change the look of the wedding magazine . There are far too many subplots to discuss , but suffice it to say that changes occur in the personalities of everyone involved and the ending , while entirely predictable , has enough humor and warmth to make a good evening out of a shaky story . Heather Graham handles her ' challengingly bad ' role with great aplomb : she is a delight to watch . The remainder of the cast does their best with the lines they're given . This is a bit of fluff , aimed at the ' chick flick ' devotees , but it has its moments . Grady Harp , July 06
A Dark Story in a Dark Place Without the Benefit of a Director's Enlightenment	A LITTLE TRIP TO HEAVEN is a strange little Indie film by Icelandic director Baltasar Kormákur , a young director with some very fine ideas but with a script ( written both by the director and Edward Martin Weinman ) ' that is so spongy that the impact of the film relies on the considerable qualities of the cinematic images . Filmed primarily in Iceland with some scenes in Hastings , Minnesota , the mood is dank and dark and cold - and so is the story . We first meet insurance investigator ( ' adjustor ' ) Abe Holt as he listens to his boss Frank ( Peter Coyote ) explain to a new widow why she will not receive full death benefits because the insurance company took photos of her husband smoking , the apparent cause of his death . Abe just sits in the background but we know he is in tune with the fraudulent activity of the insurance company . Almost immediately he is assigned to a new case : an ex-con with a million dollar life insurance policy has apparently been found dead in a car crash burned beyond recognition . Abe drives to the tiny snowy desolate village where his questions of the townsfolk reveal that the victim was Kelvin Anderson , the brother of Isold ( Julia Stiles ) who is married to a low life type named Fred ( Jeremy Renner ) , a man who we have seen in flashbacks as the one responsible for arranging the car crash and setting the car on fire . Abe sneaks around the town , spies on Isold , and becomes involved in the investigation in more ways than the honest one . It is the interplay of the three - Abe , Fred , and Isold - that provide the intrigue and mystery of the apparent framed insurance scam . The screenplay is so full of holes that it is difficult to follow the case's development . The actors are superb artists : Forest Whitaker made this film almost simultaneously with his Oscar winning ' The Last King of Scotland ' yet here his character is plagued by an affected accent and by the lack of substance that might make us care about his plight ; Julia Stiles does her best with the little she is given to do and Jeremy Renner is convincingly menacing without any factors that make us find him worth caring about . The supporting actors ( Joanna Scanlan as a sleazy bartender , Iddo Goldberg and Philip Jackson as the police , Alfred Harmsworth as the ' son ' of Isold , and Vladas Bagdonas as the coroner ) actually fare better than the leads as far as material available . The strong aspect of the film is the visual imagery , due to the decisions of picture composition by Kormákur and cinematographer Óttar Guðnason and Mugison's musical is apropos for the mood . But the film remains grounded and a bit on the confusing side because of the director's lack of unity . One wonders why Whitaker , Stiles , and Renner signed on to this little film . Grady Harp
Bright Moments in a Patchy Film	MISTER LONELY is that sort of film that pleads to be loved . It has an original concept for a plot , it takes many visual and surreal chances , and it is populated with a lovable cast who seem to be having fun with the process . Harmony Korine both wrote ( with Avi Korine ) and directed this pastiche about people who , frustrated with reality , live their lives as impersonators of famous people . When it works it is delightful : when it gets bogged down with a self-conscious script it falls flat . ' Mister Lonely ' ( beautifully depicted in the opening sequences under the credits as a child who cannot be what he is told to be ) is a young man who takes on the persona of Michael Jackson ( Diego Luna ) , performing dance movements on the streets of Paris as a busker . He encounters a like person who lives impersonating Marilyn Monroe ( Samantha Morton ) and before long the two are off to a Highlands commune in Scotland , populated with full time impersonators such as a foul-mouthed Abraham Lincoln ( Richard Strange ) , Charlie Chaplin ( Denis Lavant ) , The Pope ( James Fox ) , Father Umbrillo ( Werner Herzog ) , Sammy Davis , Jr . ( Jason Pennycooke ) , the current Queen Elizabeth ( Anita Palenberg ) , Little Red Riding Hood ( Rachel Korine ) , James Dean ( Joseph Morgan ) , Madonna ( Melita Morgan ) , and flying nuns among others . The story is less a plot than a celebration touched with a bit a angst of how the unnoticed people in the world find a source of belonging by embracing imagination . The film is choppy and loses some of its potential allure from the editing . The cinematography by Marcel Zyskind captures some truly beautiful moments and the musical score by Jason Spaceman with the Sun City Girls adds a lyrical air to this surreal romp . For lovers of Harmony Korine this movie will please . For viewers with limited attention spans ( running time is 112 minutes ) the film begs indulgence . Grady Harp
An Investigation into a Lack of Purpose : Contemporary Ennui	' Falscher Bekenner ' ( ' I Am Guilty ' ) is a strange little film that seems to beg our indulgence in looking at and pondering the state of mind of our newly graduated college youths who have had everything provided for them to prepare for life - and are clueless as to how to begin fitting into the world . Writer and director Christoph Hochhäusler appears to have a rather bleak look at this generation - or is it the generation that produced the ' new adults ' that he is questioning ? Armin Steeb ( Constantin von Jascheroff ) is a good-looking young fresh college graduate living with his doting parents ( Manfred Zapatka and Victoria Trauttmansdorff ) who are concerned about Armin's inertia about supporting himself . They assist him in applying for jobs , prepare him for job interviews , and obviously love him and wish for his happiness . Armin is bored : he can barely tolerate the entire family's normalcy , longing for something to light a fire in his life . While walking alone one night he encounters a wrecked automobile containing a dead driver and while he stops to inspect , he soon moves on carrying with him a metal object from the site of the accident . Out of boredom he writes to the police that he is responsible for the accident of what happens to have been the demise of a public official . He takes the found metal object to the police station then leaves without identifying himself . Armin continues fruitless job interviews but also spends time in front of the glow of his computer monitor having fantasies : we see him defiling public roadside restrooms with graffiti , having bizarre physical liaisons with motorcycle men , and hurtful encounters with love interest contenders . Are these real or are they the products of an unfocused mind that wants more to life than the humdrum day job ? Eventually Armin is arrested for his confessed ' crime ' - or is he ? We are left not knowing how much of what has been on the screen is imagined and what is real . Christoph Hochhäusler knows his craft : he creates atmospheres that suggest the burring of a mind in flux , he paces his tale well , and he directs a strong cast fluently . While many may view this experimental film with disgust , that may be one of the goals of Hochhäusler . Perhaps he is holding a mirror to the quality of life we have created in the 21st century for our young people who have been raised in an unstructured environment . In retrospect the ennui created here may be a more pointed existentialist statement than we at first recognize . In German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Where the Parts are Greater than the Whole	ANGEL RODRIGUEZ is yet another story of a kid whose innate talents and intelligence are misguided until he comes Under the influence of a caring adult , able to share her own vulnerabilities allowing the two to grow into stronger people . At least it seems that is what this little short and rather flimsy film is trying to say . The script is so lean and the attempt to develop characters who are understandable in their own light in order for us to care about the plot line of ' redemption ' just doesn't support the film . This is a case where the actors are so fine that they are able to fill in the gaping cracks in the script well enough to maintain our attention , our concern , for the duration of the film . Jonan Everett , making his strong film debut , is that kind of understated actor whose presence rings true and this presence makes us care about a kid whose actions should repulse us at times . His ' Angel ' is a bright young talented kid who longs for something more then the hand he has been dealt . His friends , especially the gender bending Jamie ( Jon Norman Schneider ) is another newcomer to watch . The camera loves him and it seems there is enough latent talent to make him a fine little character actor . Much the same can be said for his other computer geek friend Raymond ( Wallace Little ) . But the strength of the production is secured whenever the talented Rachel Griffiths ( Nicole - the social worker ) enters the story . Though we are given little from the script to help us organize her motivations , Griffiths ' power as an actress overcomes the hurdles . Writer / director Jim McKay has done better work in the past : Everyday People , Our Song , Girls Town , and some TV show episodes . He gives us the feeling that he understands the underbelly of the big cities and probably with the next film he will have learned from ANGEL RODRIGUEZ a few pointers to help him correct the deficiencies here . Grady Harp
Finding Love and Attempting Privacy in a Small Town	ALL THE REAL GIRLS is strange little film written and directed by David Gordon Green , an attempt to capture the claustrophobia of a small North Carolina town where finding love in the midst of an atmosphere devoid of secrets . It boasts a strong cast , has some moments of touching repartee , but in the end we are left with a lack of feeling for / caring about any of the characters . Green's fidgety camera work , jumbled scene changes , and lack of character development prevent the good points to out weigh the weak ones . Hometown lothario Paul ( Paul Schneider ) is best friends with another womanizer Tip ( Shea Whigham ) whose sister Noel ( Zooey Deschanel ) returns home from a boarding school and falls for Paul . Paul and Noel do a courtship dance , the first act of a relationship that includes more talk and self-confession than physical . Tip objects to Paul's interest in his sister and this of course only fans the flame of romance . The cadre of homeboys ( Danny R . McBride and Maurice Compte ) watch on the sidelines as the Romeo and Juliet affair takes place . Paul's mother ( Patricia Clarkson ) and uncle ( Benjamin Mouton ) add what words of twisted wisdom they can . The love affair is the first serious relationship Paul has ever encountered and for the first time it is the girl who throws the wrench into the experience , a factor that allows the story to simply end . With a cast that includes some truly gifted actors ( Deschanel and Clarkson especially ) the viewer has to reflect on why there is no true concern for anybody in the film , no screen chemistry and no charisma that would have helped make this belabored effort worthwhile . David Gordon Green is young and has some very sound ideas about film , but he needs to talk to his audiences about communication to enable him to make solid movies . Grady Harp
The Dragon is the Star	ERAGON is not without its flaws - a weak and corny script , shoddy editing , Swiss cheese story line - but it is also not without some charm . Unfortunately it is in competition with the Harry Potter series , Lord of the Rings , etc etc that seem to flow endlessly out of Hollywood and the foreign markets . The story of a young lad finding a ' jewel ' that turns out to be the egg from which a dragon hatches , offering the chance to reestablish dragon flying and the defeat of an evil world works well enough . And the actors who agreed to take on the various roles ( Jeremy Irons , Robert Carlyle , John Malkovich , Djimon Hounsou , and Rachel Weisz ) complement the newcomers Edward Speleers , Sienna Guillory , Garrett Hedlund and Christopher Egan . But the joy is the hatching of the little dragon that is a masterful piece of animation and from her birth she steals the show . This is not a great movie by any stretch of the imagination , but it does have enough ingredients to play with the imagination . Grady Harp
Soap Opera Content , but with some Fine Actors	TARA ROAD is a thickly populated movie that reaches for the female audience and succeeds in addressing old problems of infidelity and marriage conflicts . The problem is the story by highly published Irish author Maeve Binchy ( adapted from Binchy's novel for the screen by Cynthia Cidre ) is ' used goods ' and while there are many moments of touching dialog there are equal moments of sham resolutions that in the end prove disappointing despite the cast of actors portraying these only occasionally interesting characters . Two women , each bruised by life events , trade homes ( Dublin , Ireland and Connecticut ) to find the space to recover . In Connecticut , Marilyn ( Andie MacDowell ) is recovering from the accidental motorcycle ( a birthday gift from his father Greg - August Zirner ) death of her young son : grief has made her withdraw and lose her feelings for Greg . In Dublin , Ireland Ria ( Olivia Williams ) is blissfully happy in her beautiful home on Tara Road which she shares with her two children and her newly discovered unfaithful husband Danny ( Iain Glen ) - a lothario who has had affairs with Ria's best friend Rosemary ( Maria Doyle Kennedy ) and now confesses to the pregnancy of his current mistress Bernadette ( Heike Makatsch ) . In too quick an instance Ria and Marilyn decide to swap homes with the hope that separation form their families will give them room to readjust to life . Each woman encounters the friends and neighbors of the other : Marilyn meets restaurateur Colm ( Stephen Rea ) among Ria's odd assortment of acquaintances while Ria encounters the brother of Greg and some intrusive and over the top friends of Marilyn . Gradually it all comes to a very predictable conclusion that simply solves too many problems too easily . Director Gillies MacKinnon seems to have difficulty deciding how to maintain a tone for the film - a tearjerker versus a situation comedy . There are moments when the audience connects with some of the characters , but these are too few and separated by far too many stretches of weak writing . Despite some fine acting the movie never quite flies . Grady Harp
An Important First Look at the Iraqi Occupation	THE SITUATION is an eye-opener for the general public who have been kept guessing as to what is happening in the Iraqi War by the edited reporting in the media . It has all the markings and possibilities of a significant statement movie , but unfortunately the seemingly sound script ( Wendell Steavenson ) and the solid acting are all but lost by the engineers who allowed the dialog to be inaudible : not only is the ambient sound in a war-torn country not controlled by the Dolby process , but the insipid music score covers what free space there might have been for us to hear what the characters are saying . For lip readers the story might make sense , but for other viewers it is a tough uphill fight . Anna ( Connie Nielsen ) is a journalist sent to cover the war to send home to the public a realistic view of what is happening in Iraq . She is aided by friendly Iraqis such as Rafeeq ( Nasser Memarzia ) and informed of American crimes against Iraqis and becomes involved in a dangerous journalistic mission , one that gives many insights into all of the aspects of the Iraqi conflict . She finds love with two men , a CIA operative Dan Murphy ( Damian Lewis ) who represents the idealistic vision of helping supply the country with medical assistance , and an Iraqi photographer Zaid ( Mido Hamada ) whose gentle spirit and warm support win Anna's respect , and the love triangle comes into strident focus when the forces involved in espionage clash in a climatic conflict while Anna is held hostage . Thankfully , the Arabic conversations are accompanied by subtitles and the audience is thus more able to understand the Iraqi side of the story than the inaudible English spoken dialog apparently explaining the American aspects . The cast seems strong ( especially Nielsen , Lewis and Hamada ) and the supporting cast is excellent . While THE SITUATION is not meant to be the ' tell-all ' of the complex Iraqi story , it at least gives credence to both sides of opinion . And that is what could have made the movie well worth seeing . Philip Haas digs in and gives us a tough dose of what the war is about - if only we could hear the dialog ! Grady Harp
Beneath the Plodding Script and Lack of Editing Lies a Story Worth Telling	Jeff London wrote , directed , and produced this little Indie film , and had he assumed only one of the duties , the result would probably have been a much better movie . The running time is 115 minutes and could have easily been edited down to about 85 minutes by excluding the corniest ' homey scenes ' with Aunt Lillian sharing pie recipes and girl talk that add nothing to the plot and only tire the viewer . David ( Jesse Petrick ) and his little brother Ricky ( Anthony J . Domingues ) have traveled with their divorced father Brian ( Jeff Davis ) from their big city home to Brian's beach hometown to visit Aunt Lillian ( Phyllis Rodenberger ) for the summer . As this seemingly happy family ( though broken by divorce ) settles in , and Brian reunites with his old buddy Tommy ( Jeremy Douglas ) who has taken in his younger brother Seth ( Mathieu Smith ) as a favor to his family , the reason for the change of home will be revealed later . As Brian and Tommy re-bond , both having losses in their lives since their boyhood , David and Seth get to know each other and gradually discover an attraction that goes beyond friendship . After a tender and quiet kiss at night on the beach , they acknowledge their attraction , only to be betrayed by the threat young Ricky poses as he declares he will inform David's father of his brother's perversion ! The boys confront their feelings with the David's father and Seth's brother and find acceptance and unconditional love from families mature enough to accept them . Seth reveals his several month's history of ' rehabilitation clinic for gays ' experience which led to his moving in with his brother Tommy and the bigotry and tragedy of that event solidly bonds all of the families during the summer referenced in the title . Much has been said about the amateur acting in this film , but for this viewer the acting on the part of the four main characters is not at all weak : the direction is flaccid and begs for focus and tightening of scenes that would have made the edited down version of this film a very moving story . An additional annoyance is the insipid music score ( piano only ) that breaks into ' Simple Gifts ' at the most inappropriate time . But the message of acceptance of gay boys coming out is handled well and has enough original thought and subtlety to merit watching . Grady Harp
Poor Production Values Keep This Film Grounded	Paul Kampf is new to the game of writing and directing and has obviously been influenced by some filmmakers who tamper with the story and use flashbacks and flash forwards to enhance the richness of the theme line . In the case of BROTHERS THREE : AN American Gothic these borrowed techniques serve to confuse rather than enhance the appreciation of the film : the viewer is left with a feeling that too much is being taken for granted as far as additive information and too little attention is paid to character development and direction . The result is a bumpy ride of a movie that is in need of some postproduction surgery to make it appeal . In a desolate forest cabin we meet New York lawyer Peter ( Patrick Wilson ) who has been summoned to this childhood ' home ' by his brothers - the older Rick ( Neal McDonough ) and the younger , mentally challenged Norman ( Scott Michael Campbell ) . Rick is sullen and angry , Norman is pitifully confused and abused , and Peter tries to make sense of the reunion . The boys ' father ( John Heard ) is dead , leaving a will dividing his meager belongs among the three brothers . Through a series of confusing time changes in the guise of artistic flashbacks we discover that their mother is dead and that funeral attendance did not include the entire family , that Norman was the product of a drunken liaison with Loren ( Melora Walters ) who died at the hands of the father , and about other evidences of extreme family dysfunction . We also slowly discover the dark truths of the death of the alcoholic father , an incident that was brutal , but when the truth is revealed it unites the three brothers . All of this is played out in the filthy cabin where most of the time is spent in imbibing beer and in fights both real and playful . At times we are not sure whether we are in the present or the remembered past , and instead of adding to the drama , this somewhat amateurish manipulation leaves the audience confused . The acting level of Wilson , McDonough , Campbell and Heard has some fine moments and some extended moments that seem like tired adlibing . Tighter control from the writer / director would have helped - especially in the editing room . Grady Harp
The War Inside	The War Inside , November 6 , 2007 By Grady Harp ( Los Angeles , CA United States ) - See all my reviews ( TOP 10 REVIEWER ) ( REAL NAME ) HOME OF THE BRAVE is one of those films that is difficult to critique : the message of how war permanently alters the minds and bodies of soldiers and their families is a meaningful one and one about which we need to be reminded . Irwin Winkler has made some good films ( DeLovely , Life as a House , Guilty by Suspicion ) , but in this film he seems to be working against the script by Mark Friedman which has a tendency to oversimplify emotions and thus loses its impact . The film begins in Iraq where each of the main characters is at least tangentially connected . Dr . Will Marsh ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is in a truck driven by Vanessa ( Jessica Biel ) and accompanied by soldiers Tommy ( Brian Presley ) and Jamal ( 50 Cent AKA Curtis Jackson ) when a roadside bomb explodes , maiming the hand of Vanessa , killing Tommy's best friend , making Jamal witness unnecessary civilian deaths , and placing Will in an impotent position as a doctor . Flash forward to Spokane , Washington where each of these four wounded people try to piece their lives together in a world that loathes the Iraq war ( not at all unlike the treatment of soldiers returning from the unpopular Vietnam debacle ) , trying to make sense of it all . The problem with the good idea for a movie lies in the too traditional plot lines . The actors ( especially Presley and Biel ) give it their all , but credibility enters and the smoke rises and we are left with a misplaced patriotism . The message is strong : the delivery of it is shaky . Grady Harp
Much Ado Over Not Very Much	Rarely has a biopic film made such a racket at the box office . After viewing the DVD version of WALK THE LINE the reasons for that success must be attached to some sort of homage to Johnny Cash , an American icon of sorts . Yes , his life and career are notable - the emergence of a legendary Country Western singer out of the elements of a warped childhood peaked by the accidental death of his older brother whom the father clearly preferred , and the torture of self doubt that haunted a man through an unsuccessful marriage and a thwarted love for fellow Country Western singer June Carter , his descent into alcohol and drugs , and his final victory over his demons - but isn't this the same story we see almost annually about famous stars whose backgrounds seem templates from this same mold ? Joaquin Phoenix is a fine actor and has the courage to take on a variety of roles , succeeding in them all . And yes , he was able to sound like Johnny Cash ( given the fact that even Cash's fans will admit it was not a voice of quality but of message ) . Much the same could be said for Reese Witherspoon's tackling successfully the equally mediocre quality voice of June Carter - again it was her sassy style that made her a star , not her voice . And perhaps that is the reason the writers and director elected to spend most of the screen time on the singing and concerts of Cash and Carter - leaving very little of the story of Cash's life except to outline form between songs . But if you condensed the actual acting time on the screen it falls into the overly familiar family clashes , drunken bouts , weaning off drugs , spats and eventual public displays of feelings that seem to be the formula for this genre of biopic . Though Phoenix and to an extent Witherspoon do well with the material they are given , does the result merit Oscar attention ? That is up to the voters . It seems to this viewer that there have been many finer performances by less publicized actors in the smaller films more worthy . But then what are the Oscars for if not for PR for the movies . Just not that impressed . Grady Harp
The Prodigal Son . . . with terrific music !	There is something about THE GOSPEL that makes you want to like it : some fine actors ( Boris Kodjoe , Idris Elba , Clifton Powell , Tamyra Gray , Aloma Wright , Nona Gaye ) and some really terrific gospel singing . Writer / director Rob Hardy stretches the biblical tale of the Prodigal Son to the updated story of the son of a bishop of an evangelical church who runs away to become a R & B singing star only to return to his father when cancer of the prostate signals the end of his life . The ' other ' son has inherited the mantle of the bishop with special interests deflecting his commitment to the bishop's origins and the Prodigal Son finally finds acceptance in offering his talents to further the original dream of his father . The script is conversationally pedestrian but the actors do their best to make credible characters . There is a sense of commitment from the cast of extras that leaves a warm afterglow , but in the end this is a slight story saved by some fine music . Grady Harp , January 05
Wrong Messages from Both Sides	Another of those ' written , directed , starring ' movies that should have been filtered through a careful producing team , SAY UNCLE will probably get an audience because of Peter Paige's fans from QUEER AS FOLK ( it looks like the entire cast and team put up the money for the production ! ) . The theme of the story is an important one - single gay men who love children are targets for homophobic people to label as sexual predators - but the film fails to engage us on both sides of the fence . Paul Johnson ( Peter Paige ) is bonded to his godson and in every way seems the perfect godfather - if a bit too much on the infantile side of maturity . His world collapses when his friends move with his godson to Japan and Paul realizes he has nothing . He loses his job , grazes on donuts , and finally begins to seek employment in kids ' stores , baby-sitting , and other kid related projects ( even trying to adopt a child while jobless ) , all the while playing with kids in the park . The mothers in the park all love the fact that he appears to be a stay-at-home dad who entertains their own children , until one mother ( Kathy Najimy ) becomes suspect that he is a pedophile and organizes the city against him . The ending is predictable and phony and doesn't say much that is good about either Paul's manner of adapting to his life needs nor the mothers ' taking responsibility for their misjudging : it just ends . Paige is a talented guy but he needs a good director to give him some insights on how to step out of clichés and stereotypes and become at least a facsimile of a real human being . Oddly enough we are left with a feeling that his ' Paul ' is a man who behaves like a child and will probably never cross the line into adulthood . The supporting cast is satisfactory but the production values are weak . The redeeming factor is the sense that everyone had a good idea to explore : the journey just doesn't compel us .
' A Bit of Pate ? ' ' I Drink it all Day ! '	A funny line from a funny song , but somehow it captures the mood of this light little comedy , made with enough wit and ingenuity to keep our attention , rehashing some tired gay stereotypes with a fresh approach , and in the end just offering a pastiche that should find an appreciative audience . George Bamber takes on his first directing role and uses a comic strip ( Eric Orner ) translated for the screen by David Vernon and populates his movie with an attractive cast of men ( and women ) and ably manages to make the individual frames of a comic strip almost become a smooth storyline . Ethan Green ( the talented Daniel Letterle ) has problems with relationships : he has been in many from Juarez ( Ramon De Ocampo ) who still lives with Ethan's gay boy loving mother Harper ( Meredith Baxter ) , to previously closeted baseball player Leo ( Diego Serrano ) , to Kyle ( David Monahan ) to the very young Punch ( Dean Shelton ) . The crux of the story revolves around the difficulty of selling Leo's house and the ways in which the various ex-lovers interact provides the somewhat frustrating line of dialogue . Comic relief is supplied by two elderly gentlemen known as the Hat Sisters ( Joel Brooks and Richard Riehle ) as well as the shenanigans of the real estate people . Of course we know from the beginning who will end up with whom , but the getting there is fairly fun . The cast obviously has such a good time with the film that they forget to enunciate and so much of the dialogue is swallowed . But they are all fun to watch so it matters little that the superficial aspects of the story remain sub rosa . Grady Harp , October 06
A Director Searching for his Signature	A Director Searching for his Signature , March 3 , 2007 Reviewer : Grady Harp ( Los Angeles , CA United States ) - See all my reviewsFor those of us who found much to admire and appreciate in Eric Eason's 2002 little powerhouse of a film MANITO that placed Franky G in the limelight as a sound actor inside that hunky exterior , the release of JOURNEY TO THE END OF THE NIGHT held much promise . Unfortunately with moving into the arena of ' major features ' with popular big actors in a script that is deeply in need of surgery proves a step too quickly taken . While it is easy to see Eason's intentions in this very dark ( literally ! ) film , it is compulsively doctored with phony ' reality ideas ' that misfire . The basic story is a family of Americans who are deeply involved in the crime scene ( brothels ) of São Paulo , Brazil , intricately bound in their crime acts but both planning to escape the quagmire of the dingy life of the city and return to America . The father Sinatra ( Scott Glenn ) is living with Angie ( Catalina Sandino Moreno - the star of ' Maria Full of Grace ' ) and they have a small child : Sinatra's son Paul ( Brendan Fraser ) is also in love with Angie and plans an escape from the dregs of Sao Paulo after he manages to work a drug pass engineered by his father . The sale is to Nigerians who speak Yoruba and when the ' messenger ' meant to pass the drugs for the money abruptly dies in a brothel with a transgender prostitute , the panic begins : who can make the pass that night ? Sinatra hires a Nigerian , Yoruba speaking dishwasher Wemba ( Mos Def ) who agrees to take the drugs to the drop site and it seems Wemba is the only decent character to keep his bargain and his word . Paul is enraged with the death of the original middleman and ends up disfiguring the prostitute present at his death . The drug deal falls into problems , Paul is unable to convince Angie to stand by him ( which mean leaving Paul's father and the possible endangerment of her son ) , and things bog down plot-wise so that story ultimately ends with the only persons to care about are Angie and Wemba . Eason makes his story all happen in one night and the constant factor is a greenish darkness that hides almost everything - and that may be a good thing ! The script is Swiss cheese , the acting is for the most part sadly directed , the cast is poorly chosen , and the only real redeeming factor is the chance to watch Mos Def continue to flesh out his career with well executed character roles . Eric Eason holds much promise as a director ( he was the awarded best emerging filmmaker by first annual Tribeca Film Festival in New York City in 2002 ) , so perhaps this excursion into the ' big screen realm ' can be forgiven as overstepping his material . In the end JOURNEY TO THE END OF THE NIGHT is hopefully just a sidestep for a director who obviously has considerable talent . Grady Harp
Bucharest and Special Effects Soften this Werewolf Film	BLOOD AND CHOCOLATE ( a misnomer at best ! ) is another in the seemingly endless appetite-for-horror-flicks appeasers . Freely adapted from the Annette Curtis Klause's novel by screenwriters Ehren Kruger and Christopher Landon and directed by Katja von Garnier , this version of the loup-garou legend takes place in Bucharest , Romania and while the corps group of ' night creatures ' carrying the mantle of the clan appears small , the group seems more updated in its views of survival in the world of ' normal man ' than most : the werewolves are a normal appearing bunch who change into rather elegant wolves through computer generated magic in a manner that removes much of the gruesome element form the film . It helps . Loup-garou child Vivian ( Agnes Bruckner ) witnessed the death of her parents at the hands of men in Colorado and escaped to Bucharest where 10 years later she is the next in line to be the ' bride ' of pack leader Gabriel ( a gaunt appearing Olivier Martinez ) . Her aunt Astrid ( Katja Riemann ) with whom she lives had been the first love of Gabriel and a tension is set early in the film about the plight of the pack versus the desire to be a normal human , a tension that will help the resolution of the film's love story . The mysterious , questioning Vivian meets young artist Aiden ( Hugh Dancy ) who himself has escaped America and his own demons . An obvious infatuation cum attraction occurs and though Vivian admits to warm feelings for Aiden , she knows her affair is doomed : her cousin Rafe ( Bryan Dick ) and his pack of five discover her tragic near crossover the line of human desire , and the crisis of the story proceeds along the lines of victim and pursuer . The unfortunate title for the film is clumsily drawn from the negligently important job Vivian has working in a chocolate factory , hardly a comparison for the importance blood plays in the hunt and kill formula that the title supposedly represents . But then it does set up the dichotomy of choice Vivian must make , whether to obey her loup-garou destiny or enter the realm of normal human motivations and desires . Yes , it all gets pretty corny , but in many ways this ' netherworld of monster types ' film rises above others in its management of the transformation scenes ( actually quite beautiful ) and in the acting of Hugh Dancy . In the end it is the chance to see how truly Bucharest as a city really is that makes the movie worth watching . The cast does the best it can with the weak material . Grady Harp
A Moody Bit of Sicilian Life and Crime	Italian director Roberta Torre co-wrote with Massimo D'Anolfi this little film based on a true story of an incident in 1984 Sicily that revealed the integration of home life with crime in a quietly subtle way . Expect no major crime scenes ( with one exception ) and don't look for a THE SOPRANOS spin-off and the film will entertain because it is an honest attempt to demonstrate how passion can upset even the most controlled crime syndicate . Angela ( the very beautiful Donatella Finocchiaro ) is married to Rosario ' Saro ' Parlagreco ( Mario Pupella ) , a shoe store owner in Palermo where Angela works - not only selling shoes but also selling drugs in a very cleverly devised crime syndicate run by her husband . Saro gives her jewels and money and all the things that are supposed to make a wife happy . But when Angela's interest in the business / drug trafficking wanes , Saro brings on handsome Masino ( Andrea Di Stefano ) to brighten the scene . The police are watching the operation , attempting to capture evidence to shut down the drug business . When Angela and Masino begin a rather torrid affair the police photograph their liaisons and this leads to the destruction of the shoe store drug business . The entire group is jailed with Angela and Manino being released on house arrest . But when Saro is informed by the police of his wife's infidelity the theme becomes operatic and the resolution of the true story is typical Sicilian drama . The movie is slight , short , in Italian with English subtitles , and is well wroth watching for the pleasure of Donatella Finocchiaro's presence . It is fascinating to see how even a small drug operation can have such impact on a real family . Grady Harp
A Good Idea from Philip K . Dick Slips Away in the Script	Philip K . Dick has been the resource of stories for some very exciting films ( Minority Report , Total Recall , Blade Runner ) , but in NEXT , his short story ' The Golden Man ' as adapted by Gary Goldman and directed by Lee Tamahori , the concept of precognition as a human feature in altering the future falls into a video game format that becomes more action film and less human interest tale . Cris Johnson AKA Frank Cadillac ( Nicholas Cage ) is a sloe eyed Las Vegas grungy magician who has found a way to hide the fact that he has the gift to see two minutes into his future , a gift that rewards him at the gambling tables but draws attention from the FBI after a thwarted attempt on Cris ' part to stop a robbery is captured on video tape . The FBI , especially Agent Callie Ferris ( Julianne Moore ) , knows that a nuclear device has entered the USA by terrorists headed by ' Mr . Smith ' ( Thomas Kretschmann ) , and that if the device cannot be traced , a nuclear bomb threatens the lives of millions of citizens . Agent Callie observes Cris ' talent and engages him to aid in the discovery of the site of the device . But Chris ' powers lead him to a beautiful young woman Liz ( Jessica Biel ) with whom his powers to see into the future can be extended for more than the requisite 2 minutes . After a series of ' attempts ' at introduction , Cris and Liz bond , allowing Cris ' expanded powers to be of more help to the persistent Agent Callie . From that point on the film dissolves into yet another combustible crashing action flick with endless CG special effects , all but erasing the character development . And the ending is as one might expect - not very Philip K . Dick in style . Cage and Biel do well , Moore seems bored with her character , and Kretschman yet again embodies the evil of terrorism and beyond . There are some rather extraneous scenes on an Indian reservation that add little except the beauty of the Grand Canyon to the story , and there are some truly funny scenes of themes and variations on the chances we take in approaching a potential love source . But in the end all gets rather lost in the explosions ad infinitum that mark the film as a routine action flick . Grady Harp
Too Many Preposterous Story lines to Keep this Sleeper Alive	Lee Daniels ( Monster's Ball , The Woodsmen ) doesn't seem to know what to do with this script of a story by William Lipz that has so many incongruities that it simply becomes a muddled mélange of criminal psychology , sociological misfits , and ruminations on the presence of a greater meaning to all the wild madness that eventually drowns the characters . One wonders why such enormously gifted actors such as Helen Mirren and Cuba Gooding , Jr . ever accepted roles if they read the script beforehand . A very mature and cancer-ridden Rose ( Helen Mirren , who can truly make a silk purse out of a sow's ear ! ) is a professional assassin who has raised Mikey ( Cuba Gooding , Jr . ) to be her co-assassin as well as her very young lover . The two function well as a team and succeed in making a handsome living by killing people to whom they are assigned by a wheelchair-ridden broker . But when one of the marks is big time crime boss Clayton ( Stephen Dorff at his most buff to date , eye candy persona ) and his wife Vickie ( Vanessa Ferlito ) , all goes well until Rose faces the problem that Vickie is pregnant , a fact that seems to create a sense of guilt and loss and causes her not only to spare her and also to deliver the male child . After calling in a corrupt doctor Dr . Don ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) and is lover / nurse Precious ( Mo'Nique ) to help them out , Rose and Mikey harbor the new mother and child and sequester themselves to raise the child , a life style that allows Mikey to continue his assassin jobs while Rose finds happiness raising the young boy . But of course eventually the evil Clayton disrupts the flow of goodwill , gains information from the Precious after an adulterous office tryst , and it is face to face between Clayton and his wife and son and Rose and Mikey . The ending defies sharing , not only because it would mar the viewer's watching , but it borders on surrealistic bizarre images that are of questionable taste . During all of this convoluted story we are given flashbacks that attempt to fill in the interstices in the plot : Mikey's relationship to his father , his first killing , Rose's introduction into crime etc . Granted there are some moments of quiet and beauty in all of this mess , but the true reason for sitting through it is the always satisfying presence of Helen Mirren ( who actually gets us to believe her preposterous character and motivation ) and Cuba Gooding , Jr . ( who needs to change agents to get roles more important and conducive to his gifts ) . With so many fine stories waiting to be made into film one wonders why drivel such as this makes it to the screen on time ! Grady Harp
Pretty Hokey . . . or is it ?	THE INVISIBLE , based on Mats Wahl's ' Den Osynlige ' , and as adapted for the screen by Mick Davis and Christine Roum , seems like a teenage horror / scary flick and while watching it the audience may wonder what the purpose of all of this teenage angst and anger and acting out is all about . But given the premise of the story - that there is a time before death when the spirit can see what is occurring as death approaches , sort of deja vu in reverse - there is food for thought . The rather pedestrian story becomes a stimulus for thought about the thin line between life and death . Smart , rich kid Nick Powell ( a convincing Justin Chatwin ) makes up for his too early death loss of his father and his rigid mother ( Marcia Gay Hardin ) by selling his intelligence to his friends through pirated essays . In his school is a little gang of misfits lead by Annie ( Margarita Levieva ) and including Matty ( Ryan Kennedy ) and Dean ( Andrew Francis ) and Annie's sometime ex-con boyfriend Marcus ( Alex O'Loughlin ) . Nick and his friend Pete ( Chris Marquette ) are the brunt of the little gang and in an unfortunate crime perpetrated by Annie , Pete , thinking Nick has escaped Seattle for writing school in London , uses ' Nick-as-informer ' as a means to stop the gang's punishment of himself . Annie inadvertently ' murders ' Nick and hides his body . But Nick is not dead : he roams the world quite invisibly , and follows the development of the lives of his friend and of Annie , discovering secrets about which he was ignorant . The sappy ending ties everything together far too neatly , but the getting there is made tolerable by some fine performances by Marcia Gay Harden , Callum Keith Rennie , and the two leads . Director David S . Goyer makes us feel he can't quite decide the genre of this story , but it feels aimed for the teenage set - until the adult viewer plugs in to some rather good ideas buried in the script . Not a movie to wait in line for , but not a bad film for all that . Grady Harp
High Camp and Silly ' Murder Mystery ' from Spain	PERDONA BONITA , PERO LUCAS ME QUERIA A MI ( roughly translated means ' Pardon me Duckie , but Lucas loves Me ! ) is a piece of fluff from Spain that is so over the top that it is almost Daliesque . Were it not for a fairly strong cast this little film could be mistaken for a low budget TV series type project . Toni ( Jordi Mollà ) , Dani ( Roberto Correcher ) and Carlos ( Pepón Nieto ) are three gays living together in a flat and find their rent is so past due that they are to be evicted unless they come up with some fast cash . Their flat has an extra room , they advertise for a tenant , interview an endless group of hilarious misfits and finally settle on the hunky Lucas ( Alonso Caparrós ) with whom all three fall in love ! The scene flashes forward three months and when Lucas doesn't show up at the apartment the three begin to confess that each is enamored with and seeing Lucas secretly . When Lucas cannot be found at the usual designated meeting places the three return to their flat to find Lucas murdered in his bed ! The police are called , the policewomen are bizarre beyond words and it is discovered that Lucas is the missing lover of one of the two women . In a very high camp setting each of the three roommates ' confesses ' his own dalliance with the dead Lucas ( this is done with flashbacks that paint Lucas in the imagined delusional image of each ) , various ' witnesses ' contribute their views , and finally when the murder cannot be solved the entire group disposes of the corpse in an odd manner and the way in which the story ends is hilarious . Some may be offended by the stereotypes that represent every character , but since each of the characters is campy and ludicrous no one type is damaged intentionally . The clichés are broad and the humor is pushed to extremes , but the little film bounces merrily along as the bit of fluff it is . The actors truly make it better than the writers / directors Dunia Ayaso and Félix Sabroso material . Grady Harp
Parodies and Pitfalls	Shane Black is a hard driving propulsive director who seems to value speed highly . In some films it works : In KISS KISS BANG BANG the result is just a silly , self-absorbed ' in joke ' that quickly wears out its welcome . Harry Lockhart ( Robert Downey , looking a bit long in the tooth ) escapes his career in minor petty crime in New York and flees to Los Angeles where he serendipitously lands in an acting studio tryout and is picked up as a method actor for a part in a crime movie . He is assigned to Gay Perry ( Val Kilmer ) who is to train him in matters detective , but instead ends up in a crime investigation that involves a lot of unfocused characters and corpses and Lockhart's old high school sweetheart Harmony Faith Lane ( Michelle Monaghan ) . The plot is convoluted to say the least and it is made more annoying by the technique of voice over by Downey's character that flash forwards , static pauses , and flash backs in an amateurish way that begins as funny and rapidly becomes irritating . The film seems to be a parody of the genre and as so often can happen in parody , unless it is sensitively written , it becomes too infatuated with itself to make us care about anyone or any event . Downey , Kilmer , and Monaghan give it their best and it is good to see Downey back on the screen : he is a gifted actor after all . The saving grace of the film is thanks to cinematographer Michael Barrett who shows us a Los Angeles of spectacular beauty . But in the end Shane Blake shows us that trying to be ever so clever can result is a sort of a mess . And if you can make it through this film and watch the Gag Role featurette , you'll see the reason the film got so off track : ' in jokes ' that are so ' in ' fail to be entertaining . Grady Harp
All Surface and No Depth	Garry Marshall is highly regarded for his style in pulling of sophisticated comedies ( ' Pretty Woman ' , ' The Other Sister ' , ' Beaches ' , ' Frankie and Johnny ' etc ) and for this film he selected a script by an equally respected writer , Mark Andrus ( ' As Good as it Gets ' , Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood ' , ' Life as a House ' ) . To add to this assured formula he managed to cast some fine actors , and so the audience is left wondering ' What happened ? ' Most people would judge the cover of this DVD to represent a full-blooded comedy . But that is the first blunder . What happens in this film is the examination of a severely dysfunctional family of women : Rachel ( Lindsay Lohan ) is an oversexed 17 year old tyrant whose alcoholic mother Lilly ( Felicity Huffman ) can no longer tolerate and ships her miscreant daughter off to the ' hell world ' of Lilly's distant controlling mother Georgia ( Jane Fonda ) to shape Rachel up for college . Georgia of the many rules and rigid lifestyle lives in Idaho and Rachel arrives and immediately plies her bad personality on the folks of the little town , including seducing a soon-to-be Mormon evangelist Harlan ( Garrett Hedlund ) and shocking the little boys who are cared for by Georgia . Georgia gets Rachel a job as an office girl for Dr . Ward ( Dermot Mulroney ) who is an ex-lover of Lilly but a role model for the town since his wife and son's accidental death . Rachel decides to get back at her mother and her stepfather Arnold ( Cary Elwes ) by explaining her misbehavior to Simon : her stepfather sexually abused her from age 12 to 14 . In an attempt to help Rachel's family heal , Simon informs Georgia who informs Lilly about the abuse and Lilly responds by leaving Arnold to return to Idaho , cut her hair , and give in to drinking wholeheartedly . Was Lilly's confession true or fabricated ? This question serves as the climax that brings about changes in everyone . The point is dulled by the fact that we never really care about any of these involved characters , so shallow is the writing that could have salvaged a story by fleshing out potentially interesting characters . The cast is so good that they give it their all to try to save this sinking ship of a film . We want to praise Fonda and Huffman but their roles simply don't allow the actors to go very far . Marshall has worked with many of these actors before ( even Hector Elizondo is given a very tiny part ! ) but this time the cake doesn't rise . Worth viewing for the opportunity to see some very good actors given a few moments of valid screen time . Grady Harp
A Confusing Period of History Made Even More Confusing !	' Si te dicen que caí ' ( ' If they tell you I fell ' ) aka AVENTIS is a very long film made in 1989 by Vicente Aranda based on the novel by Juan Marsé AVENTIS . Apparently ' aventis ' are stories created by bored youths in post civil war Barcelona who try to explain historical events mixed liberally with fiction , fantasy , superhero characters , and smoldering sex . In this case the aventis are re-workings of the Spanish Civil War history , a time span than runs from 1936 to 1940 to 1970 to the present . To understand the progress of events would take a straightforward documentary : toss in the concept of ' aventis ' as made up by youngsters and the storyline is impossible to follow . Perhaps in another director's hands , one less associated with his own political leanings , this film concept could have worked . It does , after all , have a cast of some of Spain's finest actors - Victoria Abril , Antonio Banderas , Juan Diego Botto , Jorge Sanz , Javier Gurruchaga , Lluís Homar and many others less well known now . There are so many crosscurrent stories lines that keeping the characters straight is a major problem . We see Jorge Sanz as a paid performer in a brothel : he performs bizarre sexual acts with the very pregnant Victoria Abril to satisfy a voyeur customer peeking through the curtains , yet we also see Sanz and Abril as lovers . The rise and fall of Franco , the conflicts of WW II fascism , communism , democratic republic , and all the machinations of politics and subterfuge and heroism and death make such an odd stew that finally filters down to the death and autopsy of a prostitute by a disturbed doctor . . . . it just goes on and on . The film is just being released on DVD and the color transfer and quality of film suffer . But those are technical items than can be easily forgiven if the movie itself were more worth watching . Doubtless those viewers who are well grounded in Spanish history from 1936 - 1989 will get much more out of what is probably a fine parody of a country at odds with itself . But for the casual viewer , looking at the film as a piece of Latin surrealism would be the only reason to view it . In Spanish or dubbed English ( bah ! ) with no subtitles as option offered . Running time 120 minutes ! Grady Harp
A Perplexing Film from M . Night Shyamalan	LADY IN THE WATER is a very tough film to review . M . Night Shyamalan is doubtless a new thinker and has produced some original and interesting films ( none of which equal the promise of his first one THE SIXTH SENSE ) and LADY IN THE WATER has some very good aspects . It is just such a mixed bag , full of holes and hints of personal vendettas that it ultimately fails to achieve what it sets out to do . The opening sequence tells a tale in charming line drawings about how we all used to be water people but how man gradually went on land , gained money and power , and became estranged from the purity of the water people : the ladies of the water will try to return reason to the land people but the journey will be fraught with danger . Transfer that tale to real time and we find the disconsolate manager of an apartment house Cleveland Heep ( a brilliant , stammering Paul Giammati ) whose rules for the building dwellers include no smoking and no swimming in the pool after seven evening . He discovers a swimmer in the night pool , rescues her , learns her name is Story ( Bryce Dallas Howard ) , and gives her a Gilead in his meager room . He discovers with the help of one of his tenant's Young-Soon Choi ( Cindy Cheung ) hesitant mother that Story is a narf , a creature from a bedtime story who is sent from the Blue World to imbue reason to a certain man ( One who will return ' civilization ' to mankind ) and then return to her world on the wings of an eagle . Heep takes it upon himself to find the One who will allow Story to complete her mission , protecting her from the monsters in the night that would destroy her plight . In seeking the One , we meet the buildings tenants : Reggie ( Freddy Rodríguez ) bent on working out only one side of his body ( ! ) ; Mr . Dury ( the always fine Jeffrey Wright ) who is committed to solving crossword puzzles with his son Joey ( Noah Gray-Cabey ) ; a Mrs . Hill ( Mary Beth Hurt ) who seems to have spiritual affinities ; the odd Mr . Leeds ( Bill Irwin ) who foresees things ; a newspaper critic ( Bob Balaban ) ; a writer Vick Ran ( M . Night Shyamalan himself ) , who appears to be the One who will answer the goal of Story , and his sister Anna ( Sarita Choudhury ) : and a bizarre group of smokers and a family of Hispanic immigrant sisters . All of these characters are woven into the conclusion of the bedtime story as we watch the initial tale come to resolution . It plays better on paper than on film as there are so many loops and problems with the plot that it becomes silly . But the film is saved by the actors , Giamatti especially , who makes us love him and his very troubled past shrouded in secrets , and Howard who truly does allow us to suspend disbelief in her otherworldly portrayal of the lonely and needy water nymph . You simply have to be in the mood for this kind of film and forgive Shyamalan his oversights and vanity , and if you can do that it is a pleasant little diversion . Grady Harp
A Bit of Aussie Humor and Tongue in Cheek	STRANGE BEDFELLOWS is one of those films that plays like a TV sitcom without the canned laughter - especially now that gay themed shows have made it big on television . This film's main charm is its Aussie flavor and that forgives a lot of the shortcomings of a fluffy idea of a script . Essentially , two men ( Paul Hogan and Michael Caton ) decide to avoid back taxes and take advantage of a new law that allows same sex partners to gain the rights of married couples by passing as a gay married couple . How they go about convincing each other that they can pass as gay in order to convince the authorities and then how they can learn to act gay and live a gay life to back up their story is the action of the movie . Many stereotypes are included but somehow the Aussies know how to pull this off with minimal offense . The overall theme , after the story is all said and done , is one of tolerance and compassion for people who are in different societal climes . Hogan and Caton pull this off well , showing how really everyone they meet in their charade is just a ' regular guy ' - and for that reason the film becomes more tolerable than the usual farces that deal with ' passing ' . Not a great movie , but one with a wink ! Grady Harp
Worthwhile and Important Story Hampered by Poor Script and Production	THE VIRGIN OF JUAREZ is based on true events surrounding the crime problems of Juarez , Mexico reflected in the gringo exploitation of businesses in neighboring El Paso , Texas . The story contains many important facts that desperately need to be brought into the light , but the impact of the film falters because of the choices made by the writer and director . Karina Danes ( Minnie Driver ) is a journalist for a Los Angeles newspaper who has flown to Juarez to investigate the multiple ( in the hundreds ) killings of young women . The targets for these murders seem to be young women working in the US sponsored sweatshops in Juarez who are picked up at night after work , raped , beaten and killed . Danes is convinced the Juarez police force is doing nothing and takes on the mission of exposing the tragedies , in part due to her own past issues of being to idle with similar crimes in the US . She meets Father Herrera ( Esai Morales ) and a community activist Patrick ( Angus MacFadyen ) and together they probe the police files and follow the most recent murder , discovering along the way a survivor named Mariela ( Ana Claudia Talancón ) , a frightened young girl whose memory of her rape and beating is erased by her apparent vision of the Virgin Mary . A father of one of the victims , Isidro ( Jorge Cervera , Jr . ) nurtures Mariela and helps her to escape the hospital , placing her in a ' church ' where she becomes a ' saint ' to the people of Juarez who long for the crimes to end . Mariela appears to the public with the stigmata of bleeding hands and offers hope to the victims ' families . Danes works hard to discover evidence that will expose the perpetrators , taking a sheet of photos of ' most wanted men ' from the police office of Detective Lauro ( Jacob Vargas ) , and works with the police and Father Herrera to resolve the tragic chain of events that continue in Juarez . Fearing for Mariela's life , they transport her to Los Angeles where mysterious events end the story . The squeaky , mawkish script was written by Michael Fallon and directed by Kevin James Dobson . Had their vision been more directed toward defining the line between realism and fanaticism , the story would possibly have been better related . There are some good performances by Driver , Talancón , Morales , and Vargas but the minor roles vary in quality . Reporting atrocities such as the one this film addresses is a valid and valuable contribution of contemporary cinema . It is sad when script and the production dull the impact . Grady Harp
An Attempt to Recreate the Magic of LA CELESTIN	LA CELESTINA was written in 1499 by Fernando de Rojas and is considered to be second only to Cervantes ' DON QUIXOTE as the greatest work of Spanish literature . Here the novel is adapted for the screen by Rafael Azcona , Francisco Rico , and Gerardo Vera , the last contributor serving as director of this sadly uneven film . Despite boasting a cast of some of the finest actors in Spain , the dialogue is such a mishmash of old rhythms and contemporary expressions that much of the magic is lost . But then the story is a bit on the 15th century wild side : a handsome young knight Calisto ( Juan Diego Botto ) is obsessively in love with the beautiful Melibea ( Penélope Cruz ) yet it takes the love potions of the bruja Celestina ( Terele Pávez ) , enlisted by Calisto's conniving servant Sempronio ( Nancho Novo ) , to effect the magic . Calisto's faithful and humble servant Pármeno ( Jordi Mollà ) fails in his attempts to block the spells delivered by Celestina but to no avail . Once the magic is in effect the worlds of each person fall apart . The human passions of love , greed , lust , revenge , and desire interplay in a manner that brings destruction in the path . Made in 1996 before many of the actors involved became famous , the film ' looks ' magical with radiant costumes and sets and spot on music . But the dialogue is clumsy , the English translations even clumsier , and the whole story fails to work its spell on the audience . Instead of a fiery climax the film just sort of fizzles . But it is interesting to see Penélope Cruz , Juan Diego Botto , Maribel Verdú , Jordi Mollà and Nancho Novo in their early stage of development . This is an escapist period piece that could have been so much better , but even in this state it is entertaining . Grady Harp
A Movie That Dares to Examine Snuff Films	VACANCY may not be the best thriller of the year , though it does provide three good performances from Kate Beckinsale , Frank Whaley and a surprise serious role for fine comedian Luke Wilson , but it stands apart from many by the fact that it unveils a piece of the underbelly of crime by addressing the creation of snuff films ( films made by strange minds that show the death of the actors , and whether or not we like to believe it , there is an audience for that ! ) . The fact that the film ( as shown in the very good featurette additions ) was filmed entirely on a studio set adds to the admiration that grows after the fright diminishes . And writer Mark L . Smith and director Nimród Antal deserve credit for their project . The plot is simple : on a night road married couple Amy ( Kate Beckinsale ) and David Fox ( Luke Wilson ) are lost and the tension of the night only ads to the fact that this couple is in the throes of a broken marriage , one that fractured at the accidental death of their only son . Frustrated and angry with each other and their plight , they end up stranded in the middle of nowhere and check in to a morbid motel managed by the oily and repulsive Mason ( Frank Whaley ) . From the moment they enter their room they realize something is wrong : the videos on the television are snuff films filmed in the room in which they are staying . From there the action of the film speeds up and is a non-stop ingenious attempt to escape the killers that besiege their room . The trauma of the night makes Amy and David reconsider their history and the film ends with a grande guignol bang . Beckinsale and Wilson make a credible couple and the writer and director have opted to make the film more about the relationship of the estranged couple than just about horror . It works . This is not a great film , but it is an entertaining one - as well as frighteningly informative . . . ! Grady Harp
The Souring and Breakdown of Relationships 2006	In 2001 there was a cute little Italian film ' L'ultimo bacio ' that was a comedy of sorts about infidelity and the approach / avoidance conflict of relationships . As written by Gabriele Muccino it was a smart , sassy , genuinely entertaining movie . Now as adapted by Paul Haggis and directed by Tony Goldwyn as THE LAST KISS it becomes a sour , fatiguing , shallow examination of life and ' love ' in the year 2006 . The result is a fairly depressing movie , almost devoid of comedy , and a sad commentary on relationships . Michael ( Zach Braff ) lives with Jenna ( Jacinda Barrett ) , avoiding marriage until an unplanned pregnancy changes their outlook . They announce their upcoming event to Jenna's parents Anna ( Blythe Danner ) and Stephen ( Tom Wilkinson ) who on the surface are delighted : below the surface brews a thirty-year marriage that has been anything but happy . There is a wedding party attended by Michael and Jenna and a cadre of Michael's old school chums : lothario Kenny ( Eric Christian Olsen ) , unhappily married Chris ( Casey Affleck ) , and jilted Izzy ( Michael Weston ) . At the wedding Michael meets college sophomore Kim ( Rachel Bilson ) and a seduction begins . It seems the only happy couple in the story , Michael and Jenna , are threatened and indeed they are as Michael succumbs to Kim's advances and Jenna's discovery of the tryst leaves Michael on the street pondering his future . And all the rest is subplots of how each of these unhappy people copes with messy lives . There is some fine acting here : it would be difficult to not have good performances with the likes of Blythe Danner , Tom Wilkinson , and even Zach Braff on the set . But the plodding storyline varies from screaming sessions to passion-for-the-moment sessions and leaves little to admire about any of the characters . It is a sad summary of contemporary life and for this viewer it misses the boat . Grady Harp
A ' little goodie two-shoes ' approach to Bettie Page ? !	Writer / director Mary Harron ( credits include TV episodes on Six Degrees , Big Love , Six Feet Under , The L Word , and Oz as well as films like American Psycho , I Shot Andy Warhol , Winds of Change ) has her story of the 1950s pinup model and bondage photo girl Bettie Page down well . In many aspects of the film she is very creative : she elects to tell Bettie's passage into the world of nude / girlie pix modeling from her Nashville , TN Bible Belt beginnings in terse black and white while meandering comic relief passages are in startling color ; she has chosen a superb cast ( especially Gretchen Mol inhabiting Bettie Page ; she recreates the feeling of the 1950s down to the finest detail . The problem with a biography of a sensation such as Page , despite the probable truth of her attitude toward life and her career , is in the manner in which the story is told . Yes , the smarmy aspects of the scandal which surrounded Page are touched upon are even candy-coated or merely passed over quickly . Mol is terrifically credible ( and beautiful ! ) in her portrayal and she is supported by some fine actors ( Lili Taylor and Chris Bauer as the funny-but-naughty brother and sister team who introduced Bettie into the world of S & M / bondage shots and films that resulted in a national investigation of pornography ) , David Strathairn as Estes Kefauver in charge of the hearings over the scandal , Jared Harris , Sarah Paulson and others . But in the end it feels like a film noir without the noir . We end up knowing very little about a rather significant ' figure ' in the prolific days of girlie mags . Grady Harp
Busy , Blustery , Noisy , and Overpopulated	Trying to keep track of the huge cast of characters , keeping their various allegiances to the plethora of participating assailants , requires a scorecard in the film SMOKIN ' ACES . Writer / Director Joe Carnahan has style and the film's similarity to the many other cop / mob caper movies is evident , but Carnahan like to blitz the eye of the viewer with so much visual information ( multiple tracks , quick scene flashes , unexplained flashbacks , etc ) that when coupled with a soundtrack that is burdened with overlapping voices and very loud ' music ' makes the story confusing . The last remnant of the Mafia lies in Las Vegas , and the FBI , various gangs , and detectives are out to either court the supposed willing informer , lounge comedian Buddy ' Aces ' Israel ( Jeremy Piven ) , or kill him before he squeals his apparent vital information . Israel is hiding out in Tahoe in a penthouse papered with drugs , prostitutes , bodyguards , and pursing him are hired assassins , cops , FBI agents , and competing mobs . In the course of the film nearly everyone gets shot , tortured , killed , or maimed and the blood and set destruction are a primary ingredients . The large cast includes Ben Affleck ( in a very quick role ) , Ryan Reynolds ( who is actually the star ) , Andy Garcia , Jason Bateman , Alicia Keys , Ray Liotta , Peter Berg , Martin Henderson , Davenia McFadden , Loretta Wyman , Nestor Carbonell , Joel Edgerton and a host of others who parade by or die so quickly that their character names are difficult to remember . The script has moments of crude comedy , a lot of toilet talk , and an ending that tries to make the entire ride meaningful . It is worth a watch for the pyrotechnics of camera and sound work ( and if the viewer has a high tolerance for violence ) , but renting it first to test your taste is advisable . Grady Harp
A Cute Little Disney Film but Not for Children	' Pirates Of The Caribbean - Dead Man's Chest ' is but the second installment ( the third has already been shot ) in the series of movies based on a Disneyland ride : strange nidus for a story idea and one that takes a bit of patience to sit through , but a fun evening nevertheless . Though the first installment took the audience by surprise with the character of Jack Sparrow so inimitably portrayed by the gifted Johnny Depp and therefore served as a tastier treat , this second installment substitutes sea-dead cum barnacles for the dancing skeletons of the first and is a bit more grisly . . . and a lot less fun . But Gore Verbinski knows how to choreograph these outings and he is able to marry some very fine special effects to the genuinely good cast of characters and the result is a fantasy that is a visual delight . The cast includes Depp , Orlando Bloom , Keira Knightley , Jack Davenport , Bill Nighy who is completely covered in tentacles as Davy Jones , Jonathan Pryce , Tom Hollander , Stellan Skarsgård , and Naomie Harris and they all seem to be having a glorious time . It is a bit long for a slight story ( well in excess of two hours ) and the special effects of the kraken ( octopus like tentacles ) overwhelming boats becomes tedious , but it is a fun outing and it all too blatantly sets us up for part three due our next spring . Grady Harp
Watching the dedication of Jorge Ameer	Now and then we see early films by a well-trained and well-educated writer / director and enjoy the journey from amateur to professional status . Jorge Ameer has been actively and consistently making films since 2000 ( with an earlier 1994 work ) and it is therefore disappointing that he has not been able to garner financial backing to step beyond the low budget status that grounds his latest feature CANTADORA IS FOR LOVERS . Why is that happening ? For starters Ameer needs to assign the writing of his screenplays to others , find a competent cinematographer with the right equipment to step beyond the video state , and spend time with his actors in rehearsal and polish before the film is committed to the can . This particular film demonstrates all of those flaws . The story - an engaged couple Mike ( Vincent De Paul ) and Maria ( Christina Antelo ) arrive on the off-Panama island of Cantadora where they are warmly received by host Gabriel ( Tony Sago ) - has a good setup , but very quickly turns into an impractical love triangle with the bifurcated aspects of each character skipped over so quickly that the progress of the interrelationships just falls flat . Gabriel is gay and manages to swoop Mike off for a hike on the island Gabriel ' knows like the back of his hand ' only to ' get lost ' and spend the night on the beach where some very rusty and insensitive attempts to show attraction and rejection are shown . Barely questioning the previous night's events Maria works back into the vacation and touches of ambiguity fizzle like water on hot rocks . It seems Ameer wants to explore bisexuality but just doesn't understand the conflicts well enough to place words in the mouths of his actors . Each of the actors is attractive and at the beginning of the film there is hope that they can also act . But the script and the filming and direction prevent this little travelogue crew from sinking with the sunset . Maybe next time . . . . Grady Harp
Not Exactly What the Title Suggests . . . .	7 mujeres , un homosexual y Carlos is a misleading title , one that would indicate the possibility of a racy sexploitation movie about seven women and a homosexual involved with a guy named Carlos . This rather bland little film written and directed by Rene Bueno is anything but that . Though well photographed and cast the film never rises much above a TV novella , and for those who love the daytime soaps , then this is sure to please . Carlos ( Mauricio Ochmann ) narrates the story and informs us that he has had only one love since childhood - Camila ( Adriana Fonseca ) , a girl whose family has high hopes for their daughter . When Camila and Carlos discover Camila is pregnant at 18 the couple decide to marry , much to the disappointment of Camila's father . But marry they do , and the fun-loving relationship becomes married life with all its consequences : Camila begins revamping Carlos ' way of dressing and acting , Carlos quits school to get a job with an ad agency instead of working for Camila's father at a more lucrative position . At Carlos ' office it is de rigueur for married men to have mistresses , as is so embarrassingly pointed out when Carlos is tricked into opening the door of his boss ( Luis Felipe Tovar ) en flagrante with his secretary ( Veronica Segura ) . Also working in the office as ' office decor ' is a vampy buxom girl ( Ninel Conde ) who informs Carlos that he needs to have an affair with her . . . in order to succeed in the man's world . The slogan " Every man gets 7 women and 1 homosexual " is repeatedly used by the office staff , making the real world one that not only condones but glorifies infidelity . How this temptation is dealt with by Carlos and influences his marriage is the gist of this film . Pretty squeaky-clean . Though there are no deep moments to salvage a superficial script the movie survives on the merits of some of the cast members . It is a bit of saccharine fluff , but an OK film for a summer evening . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Disappointing Film with a Fine Cast	MRS . HARRIS is an HBO dud movie , and that is primarily because of the content of the story , the writing , the direction , and the waste of some fine actors ' time . Based on a book by Shana Alexander adapted for the screen and directed by Phyllis Nagy , the story relates in fractured pieces between a murder scene , a trial and flashbacks the pathetic story of the death of Dr . Herman Tarnower ( a wasted Ben Kingsley ) the Scarsdale Diet author / doctor / womanizer at the hands of Mrs . Jean Harris ( Annette Bening ) a upwardly climbing school marm who becomes Tarnower's live in lover and addicted to his prescribed drugs . Her life is plagued by Tarnower's inability to keep his apparent elephantine genitals ( this is made clear in an extended ridiculously inane segment in a locker room ! ) in his pants and eventually her own shaky self perception leads her to a suicide attempt that results in Tarnower's murder . The story is based on fact so there is no giving away an ending . The only reason to watch this bit of tripe is Annette Bening who is such a gifted actress that she can make a silk purse out of a sow's ear - and this screenplay is definitely the latter . A surprising squandering of money is obvious in the casting of bit parts to fine actors such as Cloris Leachman , Brett Butler , Ellen Burstyn , Mary McDonnell , Phillip Baker Hall , Chloë Sevigny , etc . Many have only one line ! Otherwise this is a one of those films that relies on media blitz spectacle posing as a worthy story to create a movie . A must miss - except for Bening . Grady Harp , February 06
A Talky , Self-Indulgent Film Despite a Fine Cast	Ethan Hawke wrote the book THE HOTTEST STATE and then proceeded to write the screenplay , direct and act in it . Sometimes that combination works , but in this instance the whole project feels like a narcissistic self-indulgent autobiographical talky two hours . Hawke is respected enough among his peers that he was able to draw a fine cast together in an attempt to make this film work , but in the end it is pretty boring . Young Texas actor William ( Mark Webber ) has moved to New York to make it big , and while he gets jobs , he feels as though he doesn't have a handle on relationships . When he meets the beautiful singer Sarah ( Catalina Sandino Moreno ) he falls in love but has no idea how to court his dream girl . Sarah is cautious about relationships , too , yet is attracted to William and consents to travel to Mexico to heat up their bonding . In Mexico they spend the greater part of their time consummating their love affair : the love scenes are fairly erotic , especially on the part of Moreno . Returning to their jobs in New York the two face problems in continuing their relationship . William's divorced parents ( Laura Linney and Ethan Hawke ) have their own demons that prevent their providing William with much consolation , and Sarah's mother ( Sonia Braga ) has a rather negative view of relationships . How the film finally winds down with dealing with William's whining and Sarah's resistance is all that is left of the lengthy diatribe . Though Linney , Braga , Michelle Williams ( in too short a role ) , and Moreno try to make this story tolerable , it is inherent in the concept that William ( Ethan Hawke poorly disguised ) is just too boring a guy to care about . Mark Webber is supposed to have the promise and charisma of a ' new Brando ' ( according to the hype ) , but he is flat in this film . The soundtrack is wearing and rarely takes a break for the dialog . Hawke can and has done better . Hopefully he has released his ego in this film and can move on . Grady Harp
Love , Relationships , and Trials	PHOENIX is the third feature by Michael D . Akers as a director and writer ( here sharing the credits with Sandon Berg ) and as with his other two features ' Matrimonium ' and ' Gone , But Not Forgotten ' there is a sense that Akers knows how to tell a good story , a story based on universal themes but just happening to be using gay characters to explain a similarity in all manners of love whether they be straight or gay . LVN Dylan ( Chad Bartley ) is celebrating his 23rd birthday by setting his apartment with flowers and dinner , expecting his love of one year to arrive for the surprise . The love is Ken ( Gaetano Jones ) who arrives late and barely notices the setting , giving Dylan a clay vase as a gift and then telling him he must dash off to Phoenix for a failing real estate deal . Dylan is hurt then angry and breaks his gift , sending Ken off to Phoenix in a miff . Sorry for his behavior Dylan takes the money enclosed in a Birthday card from his folks and flies to Phoenix to apologize to Ken . But surprises arise in Phoenix : Ken is missing , Dylan traces the broken vase to discover chef / ceramist Demetrius ( Jeff Castle ) and learns that Ken and Demetrius have been partnered for seven years ! Neither Dylan nor Demetrius is pleased with Ken's lying and cheating but they gradually admit to finding solace with each other and spend time together , including a physical encounter that leads to others as the two prolong Dylan's stay . How the love triangle is broken but remains influential is the resolution of the story . Akers has the sensitivity to not make the story have the happy-wappy Hollywood ending : he also has the talent to capture love encounters in a very sensual way . The actors are all attractive men and given the lack of prior experience each has had , they offer fairly strong performances - especially Chad Bartley . The film is desperately in need of editing as there are extraneous scenes galore ( the landscape scenes are far to brightly sun drenched for the desert locales captured . But in the end the film is successful in that it does present the joys , trials , and disappointments in love relationships in the gay community that could have easily been in a straight character movie - and that is refreshing ! Grady Harp
Piecing the Puzzle Together	Relative newcomers , writer Bill Kelly and director Mennan Yapo , have concocted a testy little conundrum of a movie titled PREMONITION : whether the audience decides to step into their little nightmare or reject the premise that powerful emotions can drive the brain to peculiar directions of functioning will be the divisive break in acceptance of the film's premise . It is a fairly well done , thought provoking experience and is carried by some better than average performances by a strong cast . The Hanson family is introduced as the husband Jim ( Julian McMahon ) and wife Linda ( Sandra Bullock ) buy their new home . Jump forward after the credits to a family that now includes two young schoolgirls ( Shyann McClure and Courtney Taylor Burness ) , a seemingly mildly depressed Linda and a workaholic Jim . Abruptly , Linda is informed by a police officer that Jim has died in an auto accident and her close friend ( Nia Long ) and mother ( Irene Ziegler ) help Linda through the early moments of the tragedy . Yet Linda continues to ' relive ' moments : one day Jim is dead the next he is alive , and all of the pieces of the puzzle that erode Linda's mind become clues to investigate information she doesn't want to know . She encounters a warped psychiatrist ( Peter Stormare ) and a possible ' other woman ' in Jim's life ( Amber Valletta ) , and as she attempts to mold the puzzle pieces to make sense , she learns about the possible ' why ' of the mental state in which she is trapped . The film has problems holding credibility , but then the premise is a novel enough to allow such missteps . Sandra Bullock takes over this role completely , gains our empathy , and in the end the film works because of her . She is becoming an actress who is learning the value of understatement and that aspect of her craft serves her well . No , this is not a great movie , but it is a well-produced little mystery that asks the audience to engage both mind and imagination , and that is a good thing ! Grady Harp
But it is very pretty to watch . . .	THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL suffers from overexposure to the passion for all things Tudor that has produced multiple novels , television series , and films that range from great to mediocre . Having not read Philippa Gregory's best selling novel , this viewer entered the theater without preconceived notions of the path the story would take / stray in the wake of heightened interest in historical data . From the opening scenes to the end the impression is one of having viewed some very beautiful scenery , sumptuous costumes , grand lighting - and very little involvement in caring for the plight of the characters . The soggy music score underlines the unrelenting dark atmosphere of the story and the production , and despite a cast of actors known for credibility in historic roles , there is little compassion stirred . King Henry VIII ( Eric Bana , in relatively little screen time ) tires of Katherine of Aragon ( Ana Torent ) and her inability to bear a male heir . The Boleyn clan ( Mark Rylance and Kristin Scott Thomas in collusion with the Duke of Norfolk David Morrissey ) seize on Henry's frustration and serve up their daughters Anne ( Natalie Portman ) and Mary ( Scarlett Johansson ) to satisfy his dalliances . The younger Mary beds him first , produces a daughter ( Elizabeth ) , then falls our of favor leaving Anne to works her newly honed skills of feminism learned in her exile to France on the easily seduced King . The results are tension in the castle , in the Boleyn family , and between the sisters Anne and Mary . History is molded by the writer to maintain more of a Hollywood soap opera that a recreation of fact and it all ends with beheadings and the child Elizabeth running gaily through sunny old meadows of England . The actors all try to make us buy into this version of betrayal and lust and loathing , but the dialog ( written by Peter Morgan ) is tired and used and anything but in keeping with the period . But then , the movie is a collection of scenes that are very pretty to watch . . . Justin Chadwick directs . Grady Harp
A Decent Story with Excessive Subplots Saved by some Good Acting	MUSIC FROM ANOTHER ROOM was written and directed by Charlie Peters : the film script would benefit from some judicious editing . Yet as a light love story it is fast moving despite diversions in the plot and in general gives some fine actors good screen time . Danny ( Jude Law ) as a five-year-old lad assisted in the complicated birth of his friend Grace Swan's ( Brenda Blethyn ) child Anna ( Gretchen Mol ) and at that moment declared he would marry Anna someday . Twenty five years later Danny returns to Los Angeles from his home in England and encounters the mature Anna who is now engaged to Eric ( Jon Tenney ) , falls in love , returns to the neighbor family of his childhood where Grace greets him with effusive warmth . The family is a dysfunctional one : Anna's sister Nina ( Jennifer Tilly ) is blind and dependent on Anna ; brother Billy ( Jeremy Piven ) is married to suicidal Irene ( Jane Adams ) ; cynical feminist sister Karen ( Martha Plimpton ) is a man-eater ; and the father cares for Grace as she is stricken with a terminal illness . Anna resists Danny , but Danny's influence on the family is like ' music from another room ' , and results in positive changes in each of the family members : Nina finds love with Jesus ( Vincent Laresca ) , a kitchen worker who introduces Nina to dancing , love , and independence ; Grace opens her longing for Anna to experience passion instead of just caring for everyone ; and the concept of fate and love and passion is stirred vigorously . Jude Law is his usual appealing self and makes his role credible . Jennifer Tilly does a fine job realizing Nina and her transformation , and Brenda Blethyn gives us a heady dose of Brenda Blethyn , which is always welcome . There are many problems with the film , the most significant one being Gretchen Mol who doesn't take her character beyond paper doll and certainly doesn't seem an adequate reason for Jude Law's unswerving attention . But as a film it works well enough and does provide some food for thought about the true meaning of love . Grady Harp
A Plodding , Predictable French Farce : Out of Character	For centuries the French have had the market on light , elegant , stylish , fluffy and tasty comedy , both in the theater and on film . Unfortunately THE VALET ( LA DOUBLURE ) doesn't rise to those standards . Though written by Francis Veber , who gave us the ' La Cage Aux Folles ' series and ' La Placard ' , seems to understand the genre as well as anyone , the script for this much-used story is bland and lacks the sparkle and inventiveness of Veber's successes . The tale is one of marital infidelity : a wealthy man Pierre ( Daniel Auteuil ) is married to elegant and intelligent Christine ( Kristin Scott Thomas ) and having an affair with top model Elena ( Alice Taglioni ) for two years . Elena is demanding Pierre divorce his wife or she will leave him and Pierre fears the financial repercussions of divorce . Enter a simpleton valet François Pignon ( Gad Elmaleh ) who is hopelessly in love with bookstore owner Émilie ( Virginie Ledoyen ) , the daughter of his father's strange physician who is more concentrated on salvaging her business than on paying attention to François's romantic overtures . Accidentally François walks past Pierre and Elena on the street , is captured by the tabloids , and when Christine sees the picture the infidelity is questioned : Pierre seeks his lawyer's advice and the tow plot to have Elena live with François to foil Christine's suspicions . Of course the loser François and the gold digger Elena learn from their roles and the story grinds to a rather silly ending . The cast is excellent but just doesn't ignite sparks on the screen . We are left with characters for whom we have little sympathy , and where is comedy if we cannot find at least one player to support ? It is a pleasure to see the beautiful Kristin Scott Thomas toss off a French role with such aplomb , but the talents of the others rarely rise above the mediocre - and that is amazing considering the quality of the cast . A disappointing film . Grady Harp
The Title Describes the Content	SLOW BURN is a film that has much to like , much promise , and a cast of trusty actors to bring it off . The problem with the result is in director / writer Wayne Beach's hands and especially in the editing job on the completed film . It is like watching a ' follow-the-bouncing-ball ' film : there are many surprises and subplots and altered identities that keeping a score card of where the story is going is a bit difficult . Reduced to the bare bones the plot takes place in a 24 hour period during which District Attorney Ford Cole ( Ray Liotta ) and his Assistant DA Nora ( Jolene Blalock ) are in a showdown with a significant crime boss Luther Pinks ( LL Cool J ) . Nothing is as it seems , as irritating flashbacks attempt to prove , and in the end the good guys and the bad guys are difficult to appreciate . There are some excellent performances by reliable actors such as Taye Diggs , Mekhi Phifer , Chiwetel Ejiofor , and Bruce McGill , but the plot depends on a significant point of the confused racial identity of Jolene Blalock's character , and though she acts well , the part would have been better served by an actress like Nicole Ari Parker , to name just one . The problem with this supposedly enigmatic thriller is that the astute viewer will see through the plot far too early . But given the quibbles , it is good to see these actors at work , especially the underused Ray Liotta . Grady Harp
Even Eye Candy Can Get Stale	DANTE'S COVE is a two disc DVD release of a TV series for Here ! TV that had everyone on the waiting list to see just how far the ' new television ' market would / could go . Now that the mystery is over with the public release of the DVDs , the comments and responses are bound to be mixed : there are those who whoop that gay themed and photographed stories are finally on television , and there are those who will wonder why a series could make it through the year with little to no storyline and a production that is essentially soft porn - for both men and women ! The ' plot ' is based on the traditional haunted house with a mysterious history dating back to 1840 : the ' story ' revolves around the folk who inhabit the house cum hotel in present day time and the aftershocks of lifting the door off the secrets hidden with the subsequent effects of the ' curse ' on the inhabitants . Sounds like a ' been there , done that ' bit ? Well , it is . The difference lies in the fact that the main characters are gay and the hotel inhabitants are pretty guys and gals who spend the majority of their time topless , swimming or en flagrante . The cast is attractive ( and we see a LOT of them ! ) but the lack of plausible story and the mercilessly poor writing and quality of acting keep the show grounded . This is a film for a special audience and one that would benefit from watching it with sound turned off . Maybe next season will improve . . . .
The Anguish of Lost Love	' Mil nubes de paz cercan el cielo , amor , jamas acabaras de ser amor ' , the Spanish title ( extracted from a poem by Pasolini ) of this little film from Mexico , is translated for the English language audience as ' A Thousand Clouds of Peace ' . Writer / director Julian Hernandez seems to emulate Pasolini's films but has yet to reach the subtle artistry of the Italian master's genre . The film is shot in black and white , uses very little dialogue , and stresses the use of the camera ( often at odds with the flow of the storyline ) in presenting what appears to be a reflection on the pain of losing love . Gerardo ( Juan Carlos Ortuno ) is a 17-year old lad who has apparently just been jilted by his lover Bruno ( Juan Carlos Torres ) who ended the only affair of Gerardo's life with a letter that plunges Gerardo into despair . Gerardo walks the streets of Mexico City , looking for signs of his lost love , pining away on a bridge , pausing to find the soundtrack recording of an old shared film , attempting unsuccessfully to kindle romance with the occasional hustler and at times meeting with physical abuse . When he is not wandering in his sadness he stays in his room yearning for what is lost and confining his needs to his solo physical dreams . He encounters old friends , both male and female , but there is no real antidote for the loss he is experiencing . And like so many tragic love stories , this one has no happy ending . Hernandez gives evidence of a potentially potent filmmaker : certainly his subject matter and his frankness of showing frontal nudity and some frankness of contact demonstrate that he is a brave writer and director . Juan Carlos Ortuna is an inexperienced actor , but with Hernandez ' guidance he manages to make us feel his plight , trust his genuine grief , and in general make us hope he finds resolution . And to accomplish that with almost no dialogue , relying only on facial and physical shots , shows promise . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Galician Wedding Day : Highly Combusitble !	For starters the audience must be aware of the fact that this is a film that is part of the DOGME 95 Movement , described as follows : ' the goal of the Dogme collective is to purify film-making by refusing expensive and spectacular special effects , post-production modifications and other gimmicks . The emphasis on purity forces the filmmakers to focus on the actual story and on the actors ' performances . The audience may also be more engaged as they do not have overproduction to alienate them from the narrative , themes , and mood ' - superficial action such as murders , no special lighting and must be in color , film must be shot on location with hand held cameras , director must not be credited , etc . Given these restrictions the story and the action of DIAS DE BODA ( ' WEDDING DAYS ' ) seem much more immediate and the lapses in fluidity of the story can be forgiven - to a point . The story is a strange on : it is the wedding day of writer Rosendo ( Monti Castiñeiras ) and Sonia ( Comba Campoy ) and one confused family this is ! Rosendo has been lovers with Sonia's father Alejandro ( Ernesto Chao ) whose wife Josefina ( Belén Constenla ) is aware of her wealthy husband's extramarital infidelities . Rosendo also has an ex-lover Nacho ( Miguel Insua ) who shows up at the wedding to create tension . Rosendo's variegated love life seems to be centered on his need to succeed as one of Spain's most famous writers and everyone in the wedding party is a means to an end for the conflicted Rosendo . A bit of superstition is added by Rosa ( Rosa Alvarez ) the lesbian sister of Sonia who reads much of the future in her Tarot cards . A film producer Fernando ( Javier Gurruchaga ) and his mistress Beatriz ( Pilar Saavedra ) add to the confusion with their own crusty relationship . As the wedding proceeds the various secrets come into the open and how the families of the couple and the Rosendo and Sonia respond to the confrontations that shape their futures winds the story to a somewhat confusing end . Juan Pinzás is the writer and ' director ' of this dysfunctional group and even more dysfunctional wedding and working within the confines of Dogme 95 he manages to come up with some fairly strong statements . The cast is strong enough to carry the ' conceptual roles ' and there are many moments that are absorbing . This film is no competition with the other Dogme 95 films ( ' Festen ' , ' Italian for Beginners ' , ' Mifune's Last Song ' , etc ) but it does take some chances with subject matter that do make a difference . Filmed in Galicia with the language of the region , the end product on DVD is dubbed in the more often used form of Spanish and subtitled in English . This quirk detracts from the impact of the drama . Dogme 95 may have supporters but it is doubtful the concept will endure . It is an interesting experiment but takes a lot of concentration form the viewer to lift it from the level of telenovella ! Grady Harp
Waiting for the Other Zodiac on DV	While ZODIAC is in the theaters and people want a sneak preview of what to expect from that film with Jake Gyllenhaal , this little version called THE ZODIAC is available and has some merit . The search for the still unknown serial killer of the late 1960s in the bay area is a creepy enough story that it is difficult to imagine a telling of it would not make us shiver . This film directed by Alexander Bulkley and written with the director's brother Kelley Bulkeley ( sic ) keeps a fairly low key and while it does manage to depict some of the slayings , much of this version on the Zodiac killer is focused on the personalities of those desperately seeking the perpetrator . Justin Chambers portrays Inspector Matt Parish who becomes obsessed with the search to the point of excessive drinking and neglecting his family ; the manner in which Bulkley depicts him seems more focused on Parish's chain smoking than anything else , an example of using the cigarette as a constant prop when there is no apparent reason for pushing the habit into the public's eye . Parish's frightened wife is ably portrayed by Robin Tunney , and his son who is obsessed with the multiple fascinating aspects of the Zodiac mentality is well handled by Rory Culkin . Some fine actors flesh out the cast - William Mapother , Philip Baker Hall - but they are given little material to use . The production values ( night atmosphere especially ) are strong for an Indie and the film does convey a creepiness that lingers . If only the writers would have shared some insights into the characters on screen the film would have been far stronger . But for another look at Zodiac , until the real one comes out on DVD , this little film is a good teaser . Grady Harp
Oliver Stone's Version of : Reductionism Attempt to Make it Personal	Oliver Stone has always been a director of grit , one who was unafraid to take on controversial subjects and create powerful films that opened the audience's eyes to the mire below the surface . In WORLD TRADE CENTER he seems to have taken the opposite stance : take an historic tragedy that affected the entire world and reduce it sown to the entrapment of two Port Authority Police Officers in the rubble of the midline of the two towers destruction in hopes that the event might become more intimate . He manages to just the opposite - he makes a huge horrific tragedy seem like a family crisis and despite casting some fine actors in the roles of actual people , the film falls short of communicating the bigger picture . The film starts well enough with two of the policemen rising early in the Am to go to routine duty , then the unrecognizable ' bump ' sound occurs and quite to everyone's disbelief the events of that terrible day unfold in a manner that does indeed convey the complete surprise of a nation of people unfamiliar with terror happening on home ground . The Port Authority Police enter the impending collapse of the towers to save victims only to become quickly trapped in the rubble , reducing their ranks to two men who hold on for survival that finally comes . Nicholas Cage is the sergeant John McLoughlin who is trapped with Will Jimeno ( Michael Peña ) while John's wife Donna ( Maria Bello ) and Will's pregnant wife Allison ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) cope with the news of the day and the discovery that their husbands are trapped in the rubble . The long movie is a back and forth interplay between the trapped men and the terror of the families . Where Stone drops his credibility is in focusing on a retired Marine Staff Sergeant Dave Karnes ( Michael Shannon ) who upon hearing of the disaster gets a marine haircut and travels to the spot looking for survivors at night , eventually discovering John and Will and getting help for them to be rescued . That is all well and good , but the film adds the tag line ' We'll avenge the terrorists who did this ' that seems like a credo for the irresponsible governmental attack on Iraq . It just takes away the film's energy and makes it a political PR piece . And that is too bad : the other film UNITED 93 is a far superior work in depicting the personal aspect of a national tragedy . Grady Harp
A Transparent Attempt to Create a Psychological ' Thriller '	Michael Caleo's background in writing for television shows in this flimsy little flick that despite a solid cast comes across as tired retelling of the bad guy to good guy to bad guy sequences . There are some good one-liners in the film , with a script that is so peppered with the ' f ' word that it is crippled by it , but the story has been done before and much better and this time around the ' twist ' is obvious from the film's opening lines . Goofus-doofus Midwesterner Jaime ( Brendan Fraser ) has moved form Ohio to New York with his gorgeous girlfriend Belisa ( Amber Valletta ) to join a sales company whose chief salesman is foul mouthed , ill tempered Ted ( Michael Keaton ) who appears to loathe everyone and the world . Jaime is assigned to Ted , but Jaime's level of intelligence borders on idiocy and his fate with the company seems doomed . . . until Jaime introduces Belisa to Ted . . . and the romantic fireworks start . Ted falls for Belisa and begins to change his outlook , confiding his inner spirit as a professor of English literature to Belisa . A transformation takes place and as Jaime spirals downward while Ted and Belisa's affair ignites , role reversal happens as a not at all surprising plot unfolds . Michael Keaton is a fine actor and makes the best of this mouthy role , but Brendan Fraser's talents are completely wasted - a hint from the start that all is not as it appears . . . It is a mediocre movie and even if the audience doesn't turn off the soundtrack to rid the script of the trashy language , it can become insulting to the intellect . But again , Keaton helps it float . Grady Harp
A Tough Film to Review	Commenting on FACTOTUM , a film based both on Charles Bukowski's novel of the same name and simultaneously an autobiography of a strange writer , is a difficult task . If director Bent Hamer and screenwriters Jim Stark and Hamer were striving to create the milieu in which the story of Bukowski's alcohol-soaked , lowlife women lover life as a wannabe poet and writer , a life of depression and failure and striving to be something other than a misfit , then they have succeeded admirably . If that is the goal then the movie deserves five stars . Sadly , the monochromatic delivery of lines , of lack of movement , of repetitive failures , and of the inordinately boring voice over delivered in a monotone makes staying with this film almost impossible . Matt Dillon is Henry Chinaski ( read Charles Bukowski ) , a man who writes when he is barely sober from his 24 hour a day drinking , submitting stories to magazines and editors . But his main concern is making just enough money for the next bottle of booze . He hooks up with some equally sad women - alcoholic Jan ( Lili Taylor in her usual fine characterization ability ) and alcoholic Laura ( the always fine Marisa Tomei ) - and some transient buddies whom he meets at his various nothing jobs , attracting the attention at times of guys who will join him in a bookie racket , but always struggling with employers who do not tolerate his bellicose and drunken behavior . Even his parents throw him out . He is a sad sack of a man who finally gets a story accepted by Black Sparrow Press , seemingly the purpose of dragging us through this depressing 94 minutes of a film . Matt Dillon's performance has been praised by some and he does seem to embody Henry Chinaski's dreary soul , but the performance ( especially the boring voice over portion ) is so flatline that it is difficult to care for him at all . Yes , Bukowski wrote and lived like this and for Bukowski fans the movie will satisfy . For others this film is just too interminably dreary and long to tolerate for a second viewing . Grady Harp
Yet Another Twist on Police Corruption	CLEANER is somewhat of an enigmatic movie : it starts out as though it is going to be a sassy comedy about a retired cop whose job it is to ' clean up ' after homicides ( a distinctly messy and repulsive job ) , turns into a rather grisly crime investigation story , adds a dollop of ' ain't life grand ' , and finishes as an exposé of police corruption . The story line by Matthew Aldrich is further fragmented by being so full of holes that the audience has to toss credibility overboard in order to make it through , and the method of direction by Renny Harlin can't seem to settle on which style to take . It is all kind of a mess and justifies the straight to DVD move . The saving grace of the film is a cast of stalwart actors who can make even a shaky script palatable . Tom Cutler ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is a ' retired ' cop who makes his living cleaning up the gory remainders of criminal acts of homicide and other grisly crimes . We learn his wife was murdered some years ago , leaving him as a single father of the bright and charming teenager Rose ( Keke Palmer ) . Cutler happens on an assignment to clean a particularly gruesome homicide scene in the home of one Ann Northcut ( Eva Mendes in a nicely understated role ) and as the convoluted story develops , Cutler realizes that the crime scene represents a culmination of forces that threaten to uncork a long history of police corruption - a history that involves him and his best friend Eddie Lorenzo ( Ed Harris ) and the tough Detective Jim Vargas ( a terrific Luis Guzmán ) . How the story ties together and ends is too loose to convey and would ruin the minimal drama present . Each of the actors , even the minor roles played very well by such artists as Jose Pablo Cantillo and Robert Forster , give it the full court press . But the see-through script and the jumbled camera work and direction prevent this from being a significant film . Grady Harp
A Rough Little Gem in Need of Polish	STRAY CATS ( PUSANG GALA ) is a an odd but in the end endearing mixture of cinematic styles , soap opera drama , tender little comedy , and hefty measures of relationship philosophy : perhaps this is the Filipino brand of magical realism . Based on a play by Jun Lana and adapted for the screen by Rody Vera and writer / director Ellen Ongkeko-Marfil , the movie boasts a fine little cast and it is the cast's commitment to the project that sets the film sailing . Boyet ( Ricky Davao ) , a mother-like gay man who takes in stray cats ( including the human form ) , lives in an apartment complex : his next door neighbor is Martha ( Irma Adlawan ) , a successful business woman whose evenings are usually spent alone pining for her often absentee boyfriend of five years , Steve ( Reggie Curley ) . Martha and Boyet are close friends , to the point that Boyet's writing career is focused on the love tangles of Martha as well as his own absentee lover situation with the manipulative Dom ( Lauren Novero ) . Boyet has a live-in ' son ' , JoJo ( Alcris Galura ) , a lad whose street life as an abandoned boy has stuck the heart of the mothering Boyet . The story bounces between Boyet's and Martha's fantasies about their boyfriends ' commitment problems , and while each of the two character's love lives are well defined ( both straight and gay and in between ! ) , the method of the story telling makes dissecting fact from fantasy a bit of a challenge . The ending of the film contains a twist that will surprise audiences who expect a light fluffy comedy . The film takes place in the Philippines and is in a mixture of Tagalog and English . While the story has some holes and problems , the cast is energetic and committed and the result is a fairly entertaining , if somewhat rough , little diversion . Grady Harp
A Cute and Witty Story is Buried by the Chic Trappings	ARISAN ( The Gathering ) is a fine little story about the ins and outs of Jakarta's wealthy class - sort of an Indonesian Beverly Hills 90210 / Melrose Place sitcom . The characters include frustrated wives , jealous wives , career women , cheating husbands , man-hunter girls , and two gay men - one closeted and one open . The film explores the social dictates of society and the jumbled events that occur when family or friends try to match make . The cast is young and attractive and handles the material well . The problem with the film is the emphasis on clothes , fancy homes , cars , and all the trappings of the wealthy class . An ' arisan ' is a gathering where friends come together , pitch in $100 . each and pass the hostessing around to various locales where their main conversation is fairly shallow gossiping . But this film , though drowning in the over-the-top trappings , has many sensitive issues well discussed and played . For a film from Indonesia it is a terrific change from the usual horror flicks that originate from their studios and as such bodes well for a new movie industry that obviously has the ability to become important . It is funny , tender , very colorful and entertaining : some judicious editing could have pared this overly long movie into a fine little film . In Indonesian and English with subtitles . Grady Harp
Yet Another Sports Film About Personal Triumph	INVINCIBLE , though the title of this very Walt Disney / Hallmark Card docudrama , is a term that could be applied to the plethora of movies built on the stories of down and outers who pull themselves up by the boot strings due to their success in sports . Brad Gann is responsible for the script of the life of Vince Papale , a 30ish out of work substitute teacher , deserted husband , depressed South Philly member of a gang of friends who pass the time while jobless playing football in the muddy vacant lots of their part of the world . Vince Papale is played well by Mark Wahlberg , giving a quiet performance of a deeply injured man who manages to finally succeed at something - being chosen by the failing Philadelphia Eagles football team when a new coach Dick Vermeil ( Greg Kinnear ) tries a desperate attempt to enliven the team by holding open tryouts . Vince's friends convince him to make the effort , the bar owners relative Janet ( Elizabeth Banks ) adds her encouragement as does Vince's father ( Kevin Conway ) . Of course the obvious happens or the film wouldn't have been made ! Vince becomes an Eagle and soars , not only for himself but also for his father , his friends and his new girl . It is difficult to fault this film : it is also difficult to sift out anything different from all the rest of the films that follow the same formula . Wahlberg does well , being careful not to allow his physique image to show for fear that the public will continue to think of him as an underwear model instead of an actor . And the supporting cast is well selected . There is an audience for these ' sports as king ' films and this one has nothing that even kids can't watch . It unfortunately is just repetitive . Grady Harp
Another ' Ballroom Dancing as a Means of Improving Life ' Story	The concept of taking the gentility of ballroom dancing with all the skills and discipline it requires and using that as a means of changing young people who are floating aimlessly toward possible destruction is a sound one , as evidenced in this ' biography ' of the life of Pierre Dulaine . Unfortunately the topic is overused to the point of becoming a ho-hum script gimmick and that is unfortunate . There are many things to like about this film , but the script and direction manage to go for sellout at the end , ruining what otherwise could have been a tender film . Antonio Banderas plays Dulaine , a man with a void in his life which changes when he encounters a high school lad Rock ( Rob Brown ) destroying the high school principal's car : Principal Augustine James ( Alfre Woodard ) is a hard-nosed disciplinarian whose heart is in the right place but who alienates her students , creating the need for a Detention Hall . Dulaine approaches James with the idea of teaching the tough kids ballroom dancing while they are in detention and after some thought , James goes for it . Dulaine is faced with unbelieving and disrespectful students , which he eventually wins over on terms that show respect for their potential and the ballroom dancing begins - a competition just happens to be in the offing ! The young cast is fairly strong , with some actors such as Yaya DaCosta , Jenna Dewan , Jasika Nicole , Dante Basco , Brandon D . Andrews , and Marcus T . Paulk being particularly fine . The girls are the dancers here and they steal the show . The problems with the script are with the choices of emphasis : we know little about Dulaine and too much about incidental kids . But the message is clear . The movie begins well , sags in the middle , and then just when there is the big finish , the story about the influence of ballroom dancing , etiquette , and pride disintegrates into a rather meaningless and long hip-hop session on a formal dance floor . Banderas and Woodard try to hold it together .
Ashley Judd , Welcome Back	COME EARLY MORNING marks the writing and directing debut of Joey Lauren Adams who elects to share a bit of her birthplace atmosphere in Arkansas and while the story is sound and the writing evocative of the personal turmoil of little towns populated by good but bored people , there is nothing new here . But just the opportunity to see gifted actress Ashley Judd strut her stuff is reason enough to watch this little film and makes us wonder where has she been since her 2004 stint in ' De-Lovely ' . She is just too fine an actress not to be given more beefy roles . Lucy Fowler ( Judd ) lives in a little Arkansas town , a successful contractor with boss Owen Allen ( Stacy Keach , another underused fine actor ) , but a woman without a firm attachment to her fragmented family : her shy and sequestered father ( Scott Wilson ) has returned to town where he hides in alcohol and steps out only for Holy Roller church services ; her grandmothers Doll ( Candyce Hinkle ) is unstable and keeps to herself and Nana ( Diane Ladd ) remains in a mutually abusive marriage ; and her uncle Tim ( Tim Blake Nelson ) who is the only stalwart member of the clan . Lucy lives with her friend Kim ( Laura Prepon ) who understands Lucy's shortcomings : unable to form relationships , Lucy spends her weekends getting drunk at the local tavern and sleeping with anonymous men whom she deserts a dawn . But things change when Lucy encounters Cal Percell ( Jeffrey Donovan ) who provides her with the first semblance of normalcy in her relationships with men , a frightening new step she abuses by entering into her drinking mode again . Lucy begins to make changes in her view of her family , her fear of being the mirror image of her father , in her work , and in the way she views men . And the film just trails off leaving us wondering what life will now be like . Adams has a fine handle on her subject and creates dialog that feels like it should : her election to make such a fine three-dimensional character out of Lucy's father who barely has a line to say is much to her credit ( and the strong performance by Scott Wilson ! ) . But in the end it is the pleasure of seeing Ashley Judd in a meaty role that makes the difference . Grady Harp
A Visual Feast , A Tedious Film	ELIZABETH : THE GOLDEN AGE isn't golden . Expectations were high after Cate Blanchett's first foray in 1998 as Elizabeth I , but somehow this follow-up film , with the same director ( Shekhar Kapur ) and writer ( Michael Hirst with assistance from William Nicholson ) , does not reach those heights . Visually stunning , with an endless array of knockout costumes for Blanchett , special effects and scenery as majestic as any that have been photographed by fine cinematographer Remie Adefarasin and a musical score by Craig Armstrong and AR Rahman - all of these fine attributes cannot cover the weak script and the general lack of character development that hampers the usually exceptional core of actors . The portion of Elizabeth's history covered by the film is the battle with Spain , England being the only country not participating in the Holy War in Europe under the direction of King Philip II of Spain ( Jordi Mollà ) , complete with the surprise decimation of the approaching Spanish Armada due to the heroism and commitment of Elizabeth with her people . The surrounding events include Elizabeth's dalliance with Sir Walter Raleigh ( Clive Owen ) and the traumatic ( for Elizabeth ) beheading of Mary Stuart ( Samantha Morton ) , under the advisement of Elizabeth's trusted Sir Francis Walsingham ( Geoffrey Rush ) . Blanchett is a consummate actress and manages to inhabit the persona of Elizabeth as much with her glances and body language and silences as with the meager material from the script . She IS a Queen reborn . The remainder of the cast is adequate though shallow , and while each has very little to say they maintain an atmosphere of Elizabethan England . This is a DVD that could well be watched without the soundtrack and still be entertaining for the visual splendors . It could have been so much more . Grady Harp
Violence without Interruption	GOMORRA is a film from Italy that has won many awards in Europe . Now in theaters ( and the increasingly simultaneously available ' On Demand ' versions on television ) this film is a long , near documentary of the crime milieu in Naples , Italy . Based on the bestselling book by Roberto Saviano ( written for the screen by the ' committee ' composed of Maurizio Braucci , Ugo Chiti , Gianni Di Gregorio , Matteo Garrone , Massimo Gaudioso , and Roberto Saviano himself ) , the film is less a story than an exposé of the extent of crime as it infects every aspect of the underbelly of Naples . Matteo Garrone directs this overlapping montage of glimpses into the many aspects of cruelty and variations of crime that affect both children and the elderly and everyone in between . Though the film does utilize some fine actors ( whose acting is so excellent that they seem like figures caught in the propulsive and deadly way of life as crime breeds crime and the only true end of a session is death ) , the dialogue is sparse and the viewer is allowed little insight into the personalities of the various Mafioso-like crowd . Yes there are some exceptions , especially among the young boys who by necessity become involved in the dirty deeds of their elders , but for the most part the film is focused on violence without interruption . And if the viewer has little tolerance for gore and killing then this is a film to avoid . Perhaps reading Saviano's popular book could help make this very long song meaningful . The film does benefit from some fine cinematography , but even if that aspect of the movie could have given an occasional break with some of the sights of beauty in the city of Naples to break the near monotony of violence , GOMORRA would be a better film . Grady Harp
Under the Superficial Fluff Lies a Sensitive Tale	' Shi qi sui de tian kong ' ( FORMULA 17 ) is a very fine first venture into film making by two young Taiwanese women - Yin-jung Chen , director and Rady Fu , screenwriter - who are unafraid to take on a taboo subject in Taiwan and find some excellent talent and ideas that suggest that there will be more films from them in the future . Though the central theme and two characters of the story are excellent , the movie drifts into wide-eyed burlesque with its supporting cast , and thus the six rating instead of eight . Tien ( Tony Yang ) is a naive seventeen-year-old from the provinces who comes to Taipei to live with his old friend Yu ( Chin King ) , a bartender in a gay bar , for a summer . Tien is gay , a virgin , and intends to stay a virgin until he is in a meaningful love relationship . Yu is suffering from a relationship that is tainted by distance , but he sees the need to introduce Tien into the active gay life in Taipei - and to put an end to Tien's virginity . Together with Yu's friends ( way over the top flamboyant kids ) Tien is introduced to gay bars , is set up with hunks , but he holds to his values - until he eyes 30-year-old playboy Bai Tieh-nan ( Duncan Lai ) , a lothario famous for his one night stands . We gradually learn that Bai is a sensitive hunk with issues who is afraid to fall in love , hence his one night stand rule . The story at the core of this film is how the two ultimately fulfill each others ' ideals and needs . Much of the film dawdles in stereotypical situations and poorly acted and directed excursions into the bar scenes , but the work of Duncan Lai and Tony Yang makes the film credible and well worth watching : both men are handsome , talented actors who develop a fine screen chemistry . For all its weak points , FORMULA 17 is a film with a big heart and a gay film that manages to deal with some important issues of fidelity and honesty instead of focusing on merely the superficial . In Mandarin , Cantonese , English with subtitles . Grady Harp
Significance ? JARHEAD depicts the Bizarre DESERT STORM War	Were intentions graded instead of product , then JARHEAD would be given 4 stars rather than 3 , merely because it is one of the few films ( so far ) that shows the particular idiosyncrasies of that first Bush war , the DESERT SHIELD transforming into DESERT STORM . We have many films that document the mindset of the soldiers from the Civil War through the two World Wars , to Korean War to Vietnam War and each is different . JARHEAD is as much about the changes that have occurred in the American military with the advent of computerized warfare and sophisticated war machines and weapons as it is about the Greed for Oil Dominance that prompted the US Kuwaiti involvement . And for that this film is important and will remain so until something better comes along . The story is rather minimal and as narrated by the author of the novel on which it is based , Anthony Swofford ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , it takes a while to become airborne . Swoff is a disillusioned kid who can't figure out how to make life meaningful so he opts for the USMC as a staging zone in his growth . What he discovers is the usual boot camp mentality and training , encountering other men who have both similar and different reasons for joining the Corps : Troy ( Peter Saarsgard ) has dark issues that remain with him throughout the story ; Kruger ( Lucas Black ) opted for the Corps instead of prison ; Cortez ( Jacob Vargas ) needed money to support his pregnant wife ; Cuban immigrant Escobar ( Laz Alonso ) sincerely is a grateful patriot , etc . Along the way the boys encounter the stereotype DI ( Scott MacDonald ) , the Staff Sergeant ( Jamie Fox ) and the company commander Lt Col Kazinski ( Chris Cooper ) as well as the usual variety of testosterone provoked young kids successfully brainwashed to be ' fighting men ' . The bulk of the story after boot camp is the boredom of going to war in the Kuwaiti desert , having nothing at all to do except play dumb games and wait and hydrate , until at last the Staff Sergeant gleefully announces Saddam Hussein is shooting and they are off to actually do what they were trained to do - Fight ! But even that is thwarted as they wade through a miserable existence of seeing sky-darkened oil well fires , constant oil raining from the burning oil money holes , losing buddies to friendly fire and mistaken attacks by their own air support . And just at the point when this company of trained snipers ( especially Swoff and Troy ) gets the chance to kill , the ' war ' is over and they go home . And in Swofford's narrative comments he notes how those men will never be allowed to leave the desert experience behind . ' Wars are different , yet wars are the same ' . Jake Gyllenhaal , buffed and shaved headed , gives us everything Swoff represents - as far as the meager script and misguided direction by Sam Mendes allow . He is a fine actor and his range of emotions is what holds the film together . The remainder of the cast likewise does their best to make their shadowy character outlines from the screenplay by William Broyles Jr . as close to three-dimensional as the lines allow . Yes , the film is about a new kind of soldier , one less driven by patriotism and more informed about the commercial greed that drives these fiascoes , and Mendes does allow us to see that . But deeper character development and motivation could have made this a more powerful antiwar statement than a visual excursion of life under the sun of the foreign desert skies . Grady Harp
Good Performances by Attractive Actors Fail to Breathe Life into this Tale	THE WHORE'S SON ( ' Hurensohn ' ) , based on a novel by Gabriel Loidolt and translated to the screen by Michael Glawogger is an interesting premise for a film - how does a child learn to accept the fact that his mother is a prostitute ? The problem with the cinematic translation under Michael Sturminger's direction is that the tale becomes a one-note song . The ingredients seem to be right - gorgeous photography , beautiful actors - but the possibilities are simply never realized . Covering a period of about fourteen or so years the film introduces Silvija ( the very beautiful and fragile appearing Chulpan Khamatova ) , a Croatian refugee in Germany who throws out her abusive boyfriend who is the father of her infant son Ozren and strikes out on her own . Her only way to make ends meet is through prostitution , and while she adores her son , she by necessity must leave him with his Aunt Ljiljana ( Ina Gogalova ) while she plies her trade . The film follows the growth of the boy to his early teens when his role is played by the very sensitive , charismatic actor Stanislav Lisnic . Ozren is convinced that his mother is a waitress , until his friends and adults in the neighborhood ( including fellow hookers ) force him to realize Silvija's true profession . Silvija manages to provide Ozren with the basics of life - clothes , food , shelter , and love - and Ozren responds to her with unconditional love : even when he accepts the fact that Silvija is a prostitute he maintains his adoration ( is it beyond that ? ? ? ) for her . There are sidebars that mix Yugoslavian politics with the plight of the immigrants in a foreign adopted land and there is a superficial relationship between Ozren and a classmate that seems to go nowhere . In the end we are essentially where we started : a son loves his mother despite her profession and her personality defects . The film is a pleasure to view because of the excellent camera work by cinematographer Jürgen Jürges , an apt musical score by Adrian Vonwiller , and actors are all strong , especially Stanislav Lisnic and Chulpan Khamatova . The story outline has potential . It is a shame that potential got lost in the production values . Grady Harp
An Adult Version of the Teeny Flicks	Raucous humor , outrageous interpersonal situations , potty mouth , and over the top jokes have long been the successful turf of countless summer movies aimed at the teen crowd , films such as the endless American Pie series , Dumb and Dumberer , There's Something About Mary , etc . Now there is a new trend aimed at the thirty to forty something audiences that mimics the earlier teen subjects . THE 40-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN falls into this category along with WEDDING CRASHERS et al , but there is a difference with this one : empathy . The story is slight : an uptight , loner , action heroes collecting , non-driving bicycle-riding punctual worker in a boring firm is now forty years old and is still a virgin - a fact that bothers him deeply but his virginity has developed into a phobia for close encounters of the female kind . His work partners discover his secret over poker and pledge to resolve the problem by getting him laid , in some of the most negative possible of suggestions . After endless trials to resolve his sexual vacuum he meets a forty something grandmother and in a mutually agreed pact they decide to date without sex for 20 dates before they allow physical activity to occur . In the process the friends at work ( including the seductive female manager ) learn a thing or two about their own life styles and the film ends in a bizarre musical number that pushes it over the top while tapping at the heart . Steve Carell co-wrote the script ( with Director Judd Apatow ) and it shows . His ' Andy ' may be a nerd but his adaptation to his problematic existence is sweet and charismatic . Likewise , his office entourage ( Paul Rudd , Seth Rogen , Romany Jay , Jane Lynch ) gives us three-dimensional characters each of which shows some personal growth of their own during their experiments for Andy . The real glow of the film is due to the presence of Catherine Keener as the ' grandmother ' for whom Andy falls . Whenever she is on the screen lights flash and reality sets in . The real problem for this viewer is that the slapstick portion of the film simply goes on too long . Apatow needs to rethink comedy in a way that reminds him that brevity is better : two hours is way too long for this very short story . Though it has redeeming graces , this is a film for a audience tolerant of the silly and the gross who is willing to wade through the first three-fourths of the film to catch the quietly tender social comment the film contains . Grady Harp
A View from the Bridge of Sexual Identity	Everett Lewis is a writer / director who continues to look at the various aspects of gay life and the way it is influencing young people . His work is a bit raw and unpolished as yet , but his sentiments are strong and translate well in the films he has created thus far . FAQS is a strong conceptual film and one with a new take on gay activism . India ( a talented natural actor Joe Lia ) is a young runaway from Colorado who has come to Hollywood where he can be the gay person he accepts he is . Living homeless under a bridge he is obliged to make his living as a hustler , and as we meet him he is participating in a demeaning pornography film at the smarmy hands of a cheating pornographer . After the shoot he is ambushed by two gay bashers and is saved only by the intervention of a tall , flamboyant black drag queen Destiny ( Allan Louis ) who gains India's respect and is invited to live with Destiny in her small apartment , a place she shares with other gay people in need such as the lesbian cross dresser Lester ( Minerva Vier ) . Destiny sets down rules of the house : no drugs , be careful of straights , spend two hours a day naked in respect for your body , always use condoms , etc . and India settles in , feeling ' home ' for the first time . Soon he meets another hustler Spencer ( Lance Lee Davis ) who is bent on killing his bigoted parents ( just as India is bent on revenge for his pornography adventure ) , but who falls for India's loving attention and the two become lovers . At the time of India's encounter with the gay bashers Destiny takes the coat of one of them for India's warmth , a coat which bears the basher's name Guy ( Adam Larson ) and address . India and Spencer decide to find them and take retribution , but when they confront Guy , India senses Guy's sexual proclivities and the three return to Destiny's ever growing ' family ' . The manner in which the other basher intervenes and the changes that occur among the tenants of Destiny's home supply the predictable but satisfying end . So why with all this praise does this film only rate 3 stars ? There are production problems that prevent a higher rating : the sound is poor , the dialogue is often buried in ambient noise , the editing is choppy , etc . But the actors are surprisingly good given the fact that most are inexperienced . Allan Louis as Destiny gives a bravura performance , one of the finest roles of a drag queen ever filmed . There are some well managed sexual encounters and some frontal nudity ( but only with Joe Lia and that is so in character that it works well ) : the chemistry between India and Spencer is palpable and credible . But despite these minor flaws ( each of which is imminently forgivable ) this is a well-made film that shows the power of ' extended family ' in the lives of gay youths at risk in a homophobic society . There is tenderness , there is comedy , and there is a solid amount of political statement ! Recommended . Grady Harp
A Tough Task , Filming a Collection of Vignettes about Abuse	J . T . LeRoy or Laura Albert or whoever wrote the collection of stories that created Jeremiah would probably take umbrage with Screenwriter / Director Asia Argento for turning Jeremiah's life of abuse and angst into a biography of Sarah , the mother who gave birth to Jeremiah at age 14 only to relinquish him to foster homes while she lead her life as a truck stop lizard and drug addict . While Asia Argento has impressive credentials as both actress and filmmaker in Italy , her on screen performance in this self-directed film is excessively focused on her and leaves the child of the stories as a mere sidebar . Much of the story line that ran through the book has been abandoned , probably due to the fact that few child actors could be asked to enact the bizarre and distorted things that Jeremiah did . Gone is the cross-dressing , the prostitution , and much of the other behavioral defects that peppered the pages of the novel . Instead we see a child claimed from a satisfactory foster home by a mother who jumps from one abusive lover to the next , leaving Jeremiah to fend for himself by eating out of garbage cans , living in slums and being at the beck and call of Sarah's consistently disgusting paramours . When Jeremiah is raped by one of Sarah's men he is sent to live with his crazed Bible belt grandparents where he is brainwashed into a zealot along with his cousins . He eventually is ' re-rescued ' by Sarah and once again the pointless existence presses on . There is no ending as there were / are further books to come . Asia Argento creates a fairly one-dimensional portrait of Sarah , that of a wasted bit of scum obedient only to her libido and drug needs . Yes , she fled from her parent's religious suffocation , but other than that we have no insight as to her behavior . The boys who portray Jeremiah ( Jimmy Bennett , Cole and Dylan Sprouse ) are just a bit too scrubbed and proper for the role and again we see little in the way of depth of character as Argento adapted the book . There are very brief bit parts by a number of fine actors ( one wonders why they wanted to do this ) such as Kip Pardue ( as buff as you'll ever see him ! ) , Winona Ryder , Michael Pitt , Peter Fonda , Marilyn Mason , Ben Foster , Jeremy Renner , and Jeremy Sisto but their appearances are strong despite the fleeting seconds in which they inhabit the screen . The ' form follows function ' rule certainly applies here : the story is shot is choppy , rancid colored , disorienting pieces that follow the style of the storytelling . The music is , well , loud and for the most part covers the dialogue ( not always a bad thing ) . This is an ' art film ' and one that takes patience to endure , but considering the great hoopla that accompanied the discovery of the ' J . T LeRoy ' scandal , it probably merits watching . For this viewer the film should have just been called ' Sarah - a tour de force for Asia Argento ' . Incidental information : the opening of the DVD is a multi-actor plea for support for ONE . org , a group of actors speaking out against poverty . It proves to be the most inspiring part of the disc ! Grady Harp
A Visually Stunning but Emotionally Uninvolving Oliver Twist	Charles Dickens ' famous story of the perseverance of the individual in the crumbling society of poverty in mid 19th century London has been scripted for film many times : the catalogue lists 19 versions and that doesn't include some films using the matrix of the story only . The results are variably successful : David Lean's 1948 version is brilliant , Renny Rey's 4 part mini series in 1999 was good , Tony Bill's TV film in 1999 had the flavor , the musical version ' Oliver ! ' was a resounding success , and even Jacob Tierney's ' Twist ' from 2003 with the pickpockets as male hustlers had its magic moments . Now here comes Roman Polanski with yet another adaptation of the warhorse novel , and while there are many fine aspects of this version , there are many problems that seem to be overlooked . Polanski creates a visual masterpiece of England and especially London of 1850 , opting for sepia and brown tones to give the dark film a sense of the muck and filth that were de rigueur in that time of dirt streets and horse drawn carriages . His sets do appear to be backstage constructions but they offer the right atmosphere . There are some fine actors involved , especially Ben Kingsley as one of the more successful Fagin interpreters . But somewhere along the line Polanski let the scenery and costumes take over and the screenplay and direction offer us the shell outline of the story but the fine actors are not given the opportunity to become fleshed out adequately to allow us to really care about them . At 130 minutes the film seems to drag and to lack attention to character development , but it is a visual treat . The ingredients are all here but somehow the cake didn't rise . As with Dickens ' novel , Oliver Twist needs to tug at our hearts : this one just doesn't . Grady Harp
Reading Between the Lines	ZONA ROSA is a colorful , lively , and entertaining documentary about the young men who are male strippers in the gay clubs of Mexico City's Zona Rosa . The credible parts of the film are those showing the actual dancing that takes place in these famous clubs : the controversial aspect of the ' documentary ' is that portion ( the major part ) of the film that goes out of its way to emphasize that all of these hunky stripping Latin men are straight and are doing this work for the art of it and for female customers ! Indeed , almost all the shots of the men in action on the stages of these clubs focus on the front rows of people in attendance - and naturally those are women , in gay clubs , without men in sight . . . . Director Dan Castle uses a lot of film to interview one Christian , an exotic dancer in the most famous of the clubs , and the interview includes footage of his approving mother , his young son ( he is divorced and living at home ) , and repeated declarations that exotic dancing cannot be examined as a preface to any other aspects of life . Likewise his fellow dancers are interviewed , declaring that the dances are intended for female clientèle , while at the same time the young studs are adamant in their claims that women are rude and intrusive whereas the gay clientèle are respectful of their roles as entertainers ( wherever those reverential men might be hiding in the club shots ) . Jump ahead one year and we see Christian living with his protégé , a body builder / trainer who Christian is prepping as a stripper , each of the two men commenting at length about each other's physical erotic attributes . . . The DVD ' Extra ' is an extended survey of several of the men's dancing routines , dances that ultimately include full frontal nudity . There is also a funny ' banana contest ' which in many ways seems demeaning to the contestants . Along the way in this film we see interviews with club owners describing their complete control of the shows , gay activists who talk about the police censorship of the clubs , the failed attempts at gay pride parades , the closure of 60 of the clubs in 2001 , and the lack of a vocal gay community . All of this goes along with the ' Latin macho ' concept that everything associated with male stripping in gay clubs is solely for the pleasure of women . It leaves the viewer wondering why the very erotic film was made in the first place ! Hello ? Grady Harp , September 06
A Canadian / Italian Soap Opera Has Its Moments !	THE LIVES OF THE SAINTS began as three novels by Nino Ricci and became a television miniseries for Canadian TV with a screenplay by Malcolm MacRury under the direction of Jerry Ciccoritti . It is a sweeping epic that covers Italy , Canada , Alaska and other parts of the US over a number of years in a non-linear fashion that weakens the plot progress . But despite the sudsy aspects of the three-hour plus DVD , there are moments of tenderness and memorable acting that deserve attention . The story opens in Italy where Vittorio Innocente as a child ( Flavio Pacilli and as a teen by Joseph Marrese ) observes his mother Cristina ( Sabrina Ferilli ) in the stables , bitten by a snake but obviously having just had a consignation with a soldier with blue eyes . Vittorio seeks solace from his maiden teacher aunt Therese ( a luminous Sophia Loren ) who consoles him , protects Christina when she becomes visibly pregnant ( her husband Mario - Nick Mancuso - has been absent . . . ) , and helps him understand life through the lives of the saints by means of stories in a book she gives him . Vittorio and his mother depart for Canada ' to join Mario ' , but on the ship Christina dies giving birth to her daughter Rita , an infant protected by the ship's nurse ( Valeria Benedetti Michelangeli ) . Vittorio is eventually separated from Rita and as an immigrant in America he separates himself from his Italian background , becoming a teacher in the Artic ( Vittorio is now played with gusto by the talented and hunky Fabrizio Filippo , well known to American audiences from his work on Queer as Folk ) . Rita ( Jessica Paré ) is adopted and lives in Canada where she studies art and is stalked by Mario . Vittorio responds to Theresa's calls to protect Rita , the two fall in love , and the complications of the lives of this disseminated immigrant family intertwine in a manner of old-fashioned movies . The saving grace of this rather saccharine and too long epic is the pleasure of watching Sophia Loren who still commands the screen . It also gives notice of new faces to watch - the gorgeous Sabrina Ferilli and the handsome Fabrizio Filippo . These three are reason enough to watch the movie . It is a long song of familial love / hate relationships , adoration of the simpler past as exemplified by Aunt Therese , and the plight of Italian ( and all ) immigrants . The photography of the varying locales is lovely and the music matches the changing times and the story . LIVES OF THE SAINTS is another example of how audiences from different countries gain access to ' foreign ' TV miniseries . Grady Harp
Expected Trite , Got Surprised !	THE PERFECT MAN is another one of those fluff romantic comedies that just keep recycling - single mom and pseudorebellious daughter make everything work after plotted plans go astray . This is one of those films that you rent because the video store is closing and you need a somnolent-inducing DVD . But in the case of THE PERFECT MAN there are some nice surprises ! Jean Hamilton ( Heather Locklear ) is a 40ish single mom who bakes specialty cakes and can't land a man . Whenever she gets close to a commitment or when she is passed by , she runs , family in tow , to a new city , new friends , new opportunities to find a man before she is too old . Her daughters Holly ( Hilary Duff ) age 16 and little Zoe ( Aria Wallace ) go along with the transplanting moves , understanding and supportive of their mother but yearning for some permanence . The newest move is to Brooklyn : Jean is welcomed back to a bakery of friends , Holly finds reasons to like her new school ( friends female and male ) and Zoe starts on a run toward a spelling bee . Since Jean is so desperate for a man , she is swept off her feet by a fellow baker who is sweet but otherwise fairly low on the food chain . Holly and her new friend Amber ( Michelle Nolden ) plan a way to capture Jean's attention from a created secret lover , their information comes from Amber's restaurateur Uncle Ben ( Chris Noth ) who tells them the secrets to winning a woman's heart . Let the games begin : first flowers , then gifts , then letters , then email , then I'm , and Jean feels as though there really is someone special out there who loves her . But as all games go , this one has its successes and major failures and as Holly grows to understand her mother's dilemma , she finds her own in her reluctance to accept the fact that her friend Adam ( Ben Feldman ) has fallen for her and wants her around . From that point it is a comedy of errors until the final frames where , as expected , all works out for the best for everyone . Shallow , yes . Been there , done that , yes . But the surprise is the growth of Heather Locklear as an actress ! She has come along ways from her ' Dynasty ' / ' Melrose Place ' days as basically set decor and has accepted her age gracefully , coupling that with a nuanced acting ability that makes her a welcome ' newcomer ' to the screen . She is worth sitting through this little yawner , making it come alive every time she is on screen . Grady Harp
A Tasty Dish , but more of just a side dish	WOMAN ON TOP is one of those films that was made , publicized and viewed as pastiche and because of its honesty as a simple romantic comedy , it rates higher than many of the over the top and overproduced competitors . The film is colorful , filled with wonderful Bossa Nova music , and has enough eye candy to almost make you forget the main dishes ! Isabella Oliveira ( Penélope Cruz ) lives in Bahia , Brazil totally in love with Toninho Oliveira ( Murilo Benício ) where the two have a restaurant featuring Isabella's passionate cooking and Toninho's macho front man role . Isabella has a problem : motion sickness - she cannot fly , ride in a car , or assume the bottom position during sex or she becomes violently ill ( it seems that the sea goddess compensated her problem by making her an inimitable chef ) . All is well until Toninho has a brief affair that drives the crushed Isabella to move to San Francisco alone despite her love for Toninho . There she moves in with her old friend Monica from Bahia ( Harold Perrineau as a superbly enacted crossed dressed drag queen ) and begins her unsuccessful search for a job . In order to overcome her longing for Toninho and regain her culinary skills she makes a pact with the sea goddess , forsaking ever loving Toninho again . Eventually Isabella lands a TV show on Passionate Cooking when desperate producer Cliff ( Mark Feuerstein ) gets a whiff of her talent . She is an immediate success . Meanwhile Toninho , unable to endure life in Bahia without Isabella , flies to San Francisco and begins a series of Bossa Nova serenades to win her back . Cliff places Toninho on Isabella's show as background music and the ratings soar . But it is the ultimately the conflict resolution between Isabella and Toninho that brings the story to its expected end . The story may be light and the script may be pedestrian , but the direction and camera work suffuse this film with Latin American magical realism and that keeps it lighthearted and fun . Cruz is terrific , Perrineau is the true star of the show displaying a sophisticated and sensitive acting skill that is very special , and Murilo Benício is not only a hunk and eye candy but also a fine singer and a warm actor who deserves a lot of attention . Story five , stars six . Have fun with this one ! Grady Harp , March 06
A Gritty Drama from an Innovative Mexican Director	Mexican writer / director Leopoldo Laborde has made a number of low budget , challenging , controversial films , using his cadre of nonprofessional actors and crew and he is gathering a following for his courage and his unique style . SIN DESTINO is a good introduction to his work - a film about the seamy side of Mexico City's life told with verismo style that at times is difficult to watch but yet one that succeeds in conveying his story well . Using a combination of black and white with intervals of color photography , SIN DESTINO follows the life of a fifteen-year old Francisco / Frank ( Francisco Rey ) who has been a sex worker since his desperate introduction to the desires of older men when he was nine years old . He regularly engages in same sex activity for money to pay for a drug habit that is out of control . His friend and dealer is the understanding David ( David Valdez ) who ' loans ' Frank money and coke when Frank is desperate , but also feels the need to get Frank out of the sex market by introducing him to women : David believes that once Frank has sex with a woman he will forego his street ways and have a chance at life . Frank happens to view a blonde girl Angelica ( Mariana Gaja ) and for the first time feels attraction to women . David sets Frank up with a kind-hearted prostitute Perla ( Sylvia Vilchis ) who offers Frank understanding and tenderness even though Frank is unable to perform . Frank has disturbing dreams and visions of his initial initiation into the male hustler life by an older child pornographer Sebastian ( Roberto Cobo ) and these intensely ugly memories are mixed with his delusions of sexual encounters with Angelica : these scenes appear in color and make a fine contrast in the ' magical realism ' vein . David encourages Frank to bed Angelica and sells him ( through money he will retrieve from an incidental reunion with Sebastian ) a love potion that will assure his sexual success with Angelica . Frank visits Sebastian after a six-year absence , obtains the money through violent means , and has his desired hook up with Angelica that results in a cruel tragedy that completes the film . David remains at Frank's side through the sequelae that follow and the film ends on a dark note that all but extinguishes Frank's hope for a favorable destiny . Laborde knows what he wants and opts for a crude , rough , seemingly spontaneous non-rehearsed style of acting from his crew . He is able to draw from Francisco Rey an empathetic character , a lad who is stuck in the quagmire of the slim that faces the poor kids of the big city . Laborde is even able to make his ' evil johns ' such as Sebastian more than simply dark caricatures . His cinematographer Jorge Rubio Casarín is at all times in sync with Laborde's vision , even though the camera use is inordinately distracting with its play of light and dark at times . It is only after the film is over that Laborde's use of the fate , death and love potion motifs from Wagner's ' Tristan und Isolde ' are appreciated , and that is an example of how much energy the writer / director has in his visions , a trait that suggests he may become a significant force in Mexican film-making . The film contains considerable violence , nudity , simulated sex scenes , drug use and harsh language , but one cannot imagine this story being told without those elements . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' Nobody ever asks to be happy later . '	HOLLYWOODLAND is a very long ( two hours plus ) film noir that is actually a film khaki : the droning muted brown to ochre tones of the film itself match the story well - and that is not necessarily a compliment . The ' unresolved ' death of B-grade actor George Reeves who was disconsolate at having his crowning achievement be the Superman role ( my , how times have changed ! ) is the subject of this story as written by Paul Bernbaum ( best known for his ongoing ' Halloweentown ' series ) and directed by Allen Coulter whose credentials as a TV director are impressive . With a cast of top-notch actors this should have been a surefire hit , but somehow being unable to care about any of the characters in the film makes it leaden . Though the film takes place in 1959 ( the death by suicide vs possible homicide ) the action spreads into the early 50s as Reeves ( Ben Affleck ) stumbles up the rickety Hollywood ladder of minor roles , alcohol and carousing until he meets aging Toni Mannix ( Diane Lane ) whose marriage of convenience to super producer Eddie Mannix ( Bob Hoskins ) leads to his attaining the role of Superman and the accompanying position of being Toni's lover . The story weaves rather aimlessly through Reeves ' checkered life with paramour Leonore Lemmon ( Robin Tunney ) and influences from well-meaning supporters . But while we watch this rather tepid Hollywood wannabe climb we are escorted by the investigation of his death by one Louis Simo ( Adrien Brody ) who has been hired by Reeves ' mother Helen Bessolo ( the always fine Lois Smith ) to prove that her ' brilliant actor ' son was murdered . The suicide death of Reeves is an open and shut case with the LAPD until Simo tinkers with the evidence , all the while ignoring his rather smarmy career as a private investigation , a distraction which leads to its own dire consequences . Simo also encounters problems with his ex-wife Laurie ( Molly Parker ) and his young son disillusioned that Superman would kill himself . The facts of Reeves ' life parallel with the facts of Simo's life and the manner in which Coulter works with this data places past with present , Reeves with Simo in tightly connected frames so that we never know whose is coming into the next dark space : it becomes a bit tedious and confusing , but in the end it is all bleak and disjointed . The actors try hard to salvage this film and there are some good performances here . But for this viewer it is just a long khaki song that never reaches the chorus . Grady Harp
And yet another kids to criminals to wake up call movie	This film is yet another rehash of that glut of films about kids who begin lives of crime early on , go to jail , and come out either enlightened or unchanged . Set in South Boston , WHAT DOESN'T KILL YOU happens to star some fine actors in Mark Ruffalo , Ethan Hawke , and Amanda Peet , and their presence makes the film watchable . It is just tiresome to watch repeats an this ' bad kid ' ( Ruffalo ) turned junkie turned convict turned negligent husband and father turned AA whose ability to make decent decisions finds him clueless until the end of the film . The flavor of South Boston and prison and petty crimes becoming major crimes is well paced by writer / director / actor Brian Goodman . But this rambling story is ultimately boring - except for the pleasure of watching Mark Ruffalo inhabit this loser of a character . An OK movie , not a great one . Grady Harp
Revenge and the Wilderness Struggle for Survival	SERAPHIM FALLS is an odd film , one that on the surface appears to be an homage to the old Westerns , but proves to be a psychological battle for survival between two men engulfed in revenge . There is very little story to relate : Carver ( Liam Neeson ) with a small posse of bounty hunters ( Michael Wincott , Ed Lauter , John Robinson and Robert Baker ) treks Gideon ( Pierce Brosnan ) through snow , forests , mountains , rough water , and desert over a Civil Ear seed of hate . The ' story ' fades to a philosophical stance ( somewhat clumsily ) by the intervention of some ghostly creatures ( Anjelica Huston , et al ) and ends without much more than a whisper of a memory about the futility of revenge . Bronson and Neeson do well with their scant dialogue , revealing more of their character's minds with physical action and the power of facial expressions . The mood of the film is in the superior hands of cinematographer John Toll and Harry Gregson-Williams ' musical score . Director David Von Ancken keeps the tension at peak level even though the film is desperately in need of editing ( just under tow long hours in length ) . But for a diversion and an appreciation for the wilderness of America in the mid-nineteenth century , SERAPHIM FALLS is a visually satisfying experience . Grady Harp
A Grisly Cinematic Depiction of a Terrifying Tale !	WOLF CREEK may not be a film for everyone to see , certainly not children , but if you're up for a taste of the macabre then this well made horror movie is certain to please . The most terrifying aspect of the story is that it is based on true incidents , incidents in Australia that carry the same degree of impact as the Manson murders or the Hillside Strangler . Murder and Madness are well married . A lively group of young daring travelers decide to take a camping trip to explore some fascinating regions of Australia , such as the crater site that is one of the largest in the world . We get to know lovable Ben ( Nathan Phillips ) and spunky Liz ( Cassandra Magrath ) and Kristy ( Kestie Morassi ) as they set out on the highway for an adventure only to backpack into one of their destinations and return to find their car won't start and their watches have stopped . A friendly older gent Mick ( John Jarret ) stops to give them a hand and tows them to his ranch - and the story really begins . In continued scenes of seat-grabbing terror each of the three discover just how evil Mick is , and each is taken captive in different ways , tortured and well , to tell more would be to destroy the plot . Director Greg McLean takes his time in the first portion of the film , leading us to believe that this may be just another outback road trip with love interests , humor , and minor conflicts . But when he introduces Mick he alters the look and the style of the film , opting for some of the most magnificent vistas of Australia as the background for some of the more grisly depictions of horror on film . The camera work ( Will Gibson ) is terrific and the musical score by Frank Tetaz adds to the mix of terror and madness . The actors all turn in fine performances : Nathan Phillips is a welcome new persona on the screen and John Jarret becomes one of the most realistic and repulsive of bad guys ever created on film . As long as you know what you're in for , this is a fast moving scary movie that will hold you to your seat and make you check your doors and windows for closure before going to bed ! Grady Harp
A Worthy Little Message Story Stretched to the Limits	SMILE is one of those Op-Ed moments on CNN that can be told with poignant dignity in 10 - 15 minutes and make a significant impact . The trouble with SMILE , the motion picture , is that it stretches this idea into 107 padded minutes , incorporating far more sitcom TV dialog about wealthy families with strident children looking for ways to escape uninspiring parental role models with teenage sex life and outside causes . It takes so long for this movie to get going that it loses the viewer . The strong elements lie in the concept of the parallel of two girls born on the same day , one to the wealthy Malibu family with everything but concord , an the other left as an unwanted deserted orphan because of a facial deformity , salvaged by a caring worker who raises her as his own . The stories run parallel through the teen years when the Western girl seeks meaning to life by joining a humanitarian medical group whose efforts are directed toward offering the Eastern girl a chance at a normal appearance . The comparison of the lives of the two girls and their disparate families is tender and meaningful and that alone is worth the effort to tell this tale . The actors are very good for the most part - Sean Astin in his most mature role to date , Mika Boorem as the Western girl and Yi Ding as the Eastern girl , and Beau Bridges and Luoyong Wang as the apposing fathers , Linda Hamilton as a rather tiresome mother , and some good young actors in supporting parts . The cinematography in China is very lovely but there is little tie in with the California counterpart . Jeffrey Kramer directs with less hold on pacing than on commitment to a worthwhile tale begging for brevity . Grady Harp
An Out of Focus Story But Very Well Told	Writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely have had success with such collaborations as ' The Chronicles of Narnia ' and ' The Life and Death of Peter Sellers ' , proving their skills , and yet in this strange amalgam of serious versus romantic versus dark comedy they have created a series of vignettes loosely tied together and named it YOU KILL ME . The film as directed by John Dahl ( aided by a superb cluster of fine actors ) almost works despite itself , but in the end the audience is left wondering just what the purpose of the fragmented nature of the story was ! The story begins in Buffalo , NY where the Irish gang is coercing the Chinese gang to join forces against the rapidly diminishing Polish gang . The head man for the Polish is Roman Krzeminski ( Philip Baker Hall ) aided by Stef Czyprynski ( Marcus Thomas ) both of whom rely on their hit man Frank Falenczyk ( Ben Kingsley ) - an aging alcoholic who lately has had too many missed or messy deaths because of his constant state of inebriation . Roman feels the pinch as Irish gang leader Edward O'Leary ( Dennis Farina ) escapes being snuffed by Frank , and Frank is sent to San Francisco to dry out and shape up . In San Francisco , Frank is monitored by Dave ( Bill Pullman ) who finds Frank a job in a funeral home making up corpses and forces Frank into AA meetings . Gradually Frank gets sober , only to meet a woman Laurel ( Téa Leoni ) who is also a bit beaten by her own demons . They form a fragile and odd relationship , each for some reason feeling the need to mutually open up - a new experience for both . Frank's AA sponsor Tom ( Luke Wilson ) adds to the growing away from alcohol process and also aids Frank in his attraction to Laurel . Lapses into booze occur and Frank finally feels he is a failure and returns to Buffalo to resume his ' work ' , but to his surprise , the changes that occurred in San Francisco follow him - in a good way . Even with the Cuisinart-blended fragments of a story , the cast is so strong that the film works . Kingsley is convincing , Leoni is superb , and the rest of the ensemble rises to the occasion with the little screen time they are given . And while the movie feels like a spoof on AA meetings and a spoof on organized crime and on funeral parlor secrets , in the end it seems like a fairly solid love story - albeit a weird one . YOU KILL ME is an acquired taste . Grady Harp
A Plot Threadbare from Overuse	WE OWN THE NIGHT is the quote from the lower portion of the badge on the uniforms of NYPD police family Deputy Chief Bert Grusinsky ( Robert Duvall ) and one of his two sons Capt . Joe Grusinsky ( Mark Wahlberg ) : the other son Bobby ( Joaquin Phoenix ) did not follow the family tradition of police work but instead is involved in nightclubs - and yes there is a schism of resentment . Bobby has distanced himself further from his family by changing his last name to ' Green ' , living with a Puerto Rican girl Amada ( Eva Mendes ) , and bonding to a wealthy Russian family who owns the nightclub where Bobby works - a front for a drug dealing business . Writer / Director James Gray ( ' The Yards ' and ' Little Odessa ' ) has a feel for this underbelly of New York City and captures the 1988 mood of life in the city and beneath the city with style . The problem with the story is that it has been done so many times that it is simply stale yesterday's lunch . Two brothers at opposite end of the family spectrum require a major tragedy to bring them together , and to offer any more information to this fairly thin plot would be a disservice to those who plan to see the film . The cast is strong , partly because each of them has played similar roles countless times and have the ideas down pat . It should be noted that two of the producers of the film are Mark Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix , probably a reason the film was made . . . There are some exciting moments and enough surprises and tense times to keep the adrenaline rolling , the smaller roles are very well cast , and one of the shining attributes of the film is the gorgeous Russian liturgy inspired musical score by Wojciech Kilar . It is not a bad film ; it is just too much in the same mold as countless other New York police dramas . Grady Harp
Civilized Versus Uncivilized Collide : The Effect is Mutually Powerful	END OF THE SPEAR is a little film that tells a fine story based on a true incident . The director Jim Hanon has mastered the elements of his film - story , character development , atmosphere of place - and the result is a visually stunning little film that is touching without being mawkish . Nate Saint ( Chad Allen ) , his wife Elizabeth ( Beth Bailey ) and son Steve ( Chase Ellison ) are missionaries living in the jungles of Ecuador . A tribe of Indians , the Waodani , is self-destructing due to a long custom of ' spearing ' their fellow Indians with whom they have contentions . Fearing that the tribe will become extinct , Nate and his fellow missionary buddies fly a small craft into the area of the Amazon to befriend the Indians . There they encounter Mincayani ( Louie Leonardo ) , Kimo ( Jack Guzman ) , and Dayumae ( Christina Souza ) among the other tribesmen . The Waodani don't trust the foreigners and in an act of missionary aid they kill the missionary men . The family of Nate is devastated as are the wives and children of the other missionaries and they decide to move into the village to prove their husband's good intentions . The struggle and eventual coming together of these two ' tribes ' of peoples forms the storyline and speaks of forgiveness , need , love and survival . The story is simple but beautiful and the acting is very good . Some may quibble about the use of non-Indian actors ( who too obviously maintain well-shaved faces and buff bodies ) and the use of a language not always translated in the subtitles , but the overall effect of the movie is one of nature and the lessons to be learned in the interaction of two types of cultures . For this viewer the minor flaws are easily overlooked . Grady Harp
Dazzling Cinematic Production with Minimal Story	Director Carlos Diegues knows how to capture atmosphere with his camera and effects and when that atmosphere is the splendid garish gaudiness of Carnival in Rio de Janeiro there is plenty to entertain the eye . ' Orfeu ' as a story , supposedly a re-interpretation of the Orpheus and Eurydice myth updated to current times and set in the slums ( favelas ) of Rio , is just not there . The title character Orfeu ( handsome and talented singer Toni Garrido ) does sing and play his guitar , his playing ends the night and serenades the rising of the sun , but here he a quasi-Rap star , beloved by his townsfolk of the hillside favela , and by all the women who come into his view . Eurídice ( Patrícia França ) enters his life , as she comes to Rio after the death of her parents in the provinces , and the meeting results in instant love . There is violence from the police invasions of the slums , drug lords such as Lucinho ( a disastrously misused Murilo Benício who happens to be one of Brazil's biggest stars ) , female envy from Orfeu's many ex-lovers ( Isabel Fillardis , Maria Ceiça ) , and parental concern from Orfeu's parents Conceição ( Zezé Motta ) and Inácio ( Milton Gonçalves ) . But the story , or at least a semblance of one , gets buried in all the extravagant production of police raids and the Carnival parades : it just ends without much point - except that there is a reprise of the musical theme from ' Black Orpheus ' to carry you back down memory lane . Though the quality of acting is generally substandard by comparison to most great films out of Brazil , the style of acting is supposedly the accepted norm for the popular Brazilian novellas on television . And the sensual presence of Toni Garrido does raise the quality of the movie . But if the art of ' Black Orpheus ' or Jean Cocteau's ' Orphee ' is what you are expecting , this film will not satisfy . If you are looking for a colorful , splashy extravaganza about Rio during Carnival , here is your ticket ! Grady Harp
Another ' Harrison Ford Saves the Day ' Tale , but with a Fine Cast	The story behind FIREWALL is just another variation of the ' thrillers ' that made Harrison Ford popular : that is not a put down because Ford created a ' character type ' that has been highly successful in generating a lot of movies light of weight in script but heavyweight in excitement . FIREWALL updates Ford's persona ( though his physical presence now strains credibility that he could have young kids involved ) to that of a computer expert , the man employed by a major back whom everybody loves and who just happens to be a top flight security brain protecting the bank's assets . At a meeting with a potential investor ( Paul Bettany ) our hero is kind and casual only to be kidnapped by Bettany and taken to his home where his wife ( Virginia Madsen ) and children are being held ransom by Bettany's crew ( including handsome Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau who costarred with Bettany in ' Wimbledon ' ) . The aim : get Ford to gain access into the bank's assets and transfer the funds to Bettany's off shore account . How this all tediously works out is the movies plot . An odd factor here : there are numerous famous actors in bit parts ( Alan Arkin , Robert Forster , Robert Patrick ) that seem like PR padding . The script is flimsy , the plot wanders , the outcome is obvious , but Harrison Ford , Paul Bettany , Mary Lynn Rajskub , and Virginia Madsen prove that good actors can overcome weak material , even in formulaic films such as this . Grady Harp
' My name is Rosa Ponds '	. . . a repeated comment from one of the interviewees in this strange little film from Greek writer / director Constantine Giannaris . Struggling somewhere between a docudrama and a ethnic drama , FROM THE EDGE OF THE CITY is written and filmed with gritty realism techniques that in the end adds some charm to an otherwise meandering movie . During the Soviet Union era Greek Khazahkstani expatriates fled to Athens , Greece where they attempt to fit in to the Greek culture and society . But as with most immigrant groups there are challenges to face in trying to find their niche on the outskirts of a major city . The little town where they live is called Menidi and while the adults have learned Greek and found jobs , a group of teenagers who speak a mixture of Russian and Greek want the good things of life found in Athens yet waste away their own lives on roller-blading , petty crimes , cruising , drugs , male prostitution , and sexual and criminal exploitation by the wealthy Greeks : they want the good life without working for it . The focal person of the film is Sasha ( Stathis Papadopoulos ) - the one who refers to himself as Rosa Ponds in interview . As with the rest of the cast he is a beautiful young man with many conflicts who seems to be seeking his identity . He and his friends move from drugs to petty crime to criminal involvement with prostitution ( of both gay and straight forms ) . There are many subplots that could use more definition as the film tends to meander about the streets without direction . The boys become involved as both victims and perpetrators of abusive behavior , yet there is something in the nature of Sasha that makes us hope his life will even out . Giannaris worked with street kids with no prior acting experience , a fact the gives a true sense of verismo to the film . Both the men and women involved are eye candy and while this film is being marketed as a gay movie , there is very little content to rank it as such - as though the Greek homophobia would not condone a popular movie to dwell on that subject . Nice eye candy for everyone , but not a lot of substance . Keep your expectations low and the movie will satisfy as a study of the problems of immigrants on the periphery of big cities around the world . Grady Harp
A Film with So Many Subplots That the Strange Fruit is Just One in Bowl	The opening credits for the writer / director Kyle Schickner ( Full Frontal , Rose by any other Name ) film STRANGE FRUIT are eloquently beautiful camera passages down a Louisiana bayou at night , the end point being an isolated little club ( the Gator ) reached only by a floating raft . The mood is set for an atmospheric Southern Gothic drama : what follows is an overly complicated exploration of racism , homophobia , family dysfunction , police corruption , prejudice ( racial and gender ) , and most important gay homophobia ! Too many irons in the fire make a film that has a lot of potential come to a confusing end : too many of the subplots and motivations remain unexplained . There is a lynching of a black gay man in the parking lot of The Gator ( a gay bar where people of like minds can hide at night as long as they stay in the closet outside the bar ) . The mother Emma Ayers ( a radiant Berlinda Tolbert ) and her ne're-do-well remaining son Duane ( David Raibon ) are convinced the incident was a murder but the sheriff ( Sam Jones ) and his redneck deputies ( with the exception of Deputy Conover - Jared Day ) dismiss the lynching as justified because it was ' sexually motivated ' and gay men deserve such an end . Emma calls the victim's childhood friend William Boyals ( the fine Kent Faulcon ) , a successful lawyer now in New York , to come and investigate . What William discovers upon his return to his hometown is a cast of characters that includes hateful white trash , closeted black gays afraid to defend each other , ' law enforcement ' that is anything but honest , the strength and devotion of his ' aunt Emma ' , and the mother that disowned him when he came out of the closet to be a successful gay man . The story proceeds to follow leads about the lynching and along the way there are other murders and lynchings that muddle the picture until the finale when the words of the Gator owner explain the happenings : ' Nothing is ever like it appears to be ' . The film is moody , atmospheric , and there are some fine performances by Faulcon , Tolbert , Raibon , Jared Day and Jones . The problems include a script that opts for generalities and clichés and once again a music score and recording system that buries a lot of the dialogue . But it is refreshing to see a story that views the black gay life in the South from the vantage of a handsome , successful , gay black man . Though overly long at 115 minutes , STRANGE FRUIT is still a film of interest for the chances it takes .
An Extemporaneous Homage to Albert Lamorisse's THE RED BALLOON	Somewhere the highly regarded Taiwanese director Hou Hsiao-Hsien had the idea of paying homage to the 1956 classic Albert Lamorisse film THE RED BALLOON , a tender story of a child's interaction with a nearly animate floating balloon , and while there is indeed an short introduction of a small boy addressing an errant red balloon floating in Paris , the ' homage ' stops there . What follows is an overly long , frustratingly impromptu series of scenes that lack cohesion and resolution . THE FLIGHT OF THE RED BALLOON ( Le Voyage du balloon rouge ) is a prolonged ( 113 minutes ) series of scenes that stutter along with the same sort of wandering course of the occasionally visible red balloon to present moments in the life of a disheveled , frumpy , single mother Suzanne ( Juliette Binoche ) whose income depends on her fascination and obsession with Chinese marionette presentations for which she supplies the backstage voice for all of the characters . Her absent ' husband / boyfriend ' has left her to write in Montreal while Suzanne must care for her young son Simon ( Simon Iteanu ) with the help of a newly hired Taiwanese photographer nanny Song ( Fang Song ) while her daughter resides in Brussels . This disheveled household is further complicated by the freeloading Marc ( Hippolyte Girardot ) , the friend of her absentee ' husband ' , by Simon's piano lessons taught by Anna ( Anna Sigalevitch ) , and by impossible conflicting schedules for marionette performances , partially relieved by Song's quiet ability to take Simon on adventures outside the confines of the cluttered little space they all call home . The only quieting element of this film is the occasional appearance of the ' guardian angel ' red balloon , which seems to be a symbol for defining the real world of Simon and the illusory world he craves . The dialogue as written by Hou and François Margolin is choppy and the camera work and constant meandering piano music seem extemporaneous : there are few resolutions to the individual stories that are only hinted . Juliette Binoche is a solid actress able to make the most of a minimal script and horrendous costuming and makeup : her moments of being the voice of marionettes are magical . But this Red Balloon just doesn't take flight in the context of this homage . As with the rest of the film the balloon just floats off at the end . The viewer needs a lot of patience with this film ! Grady Harp
A Sensitive Documentary	THE LAST VICTORY may appear on the DVD cover to be a story film , but in truth it is a documentary - in other words the story within the film is true and untampered . That fact makes the film even more entertaining , especially to those who love Italy and the traditions about which the casual visitor knows too little . In Siena there is an annual horserace called the ' Palio ' in the city's center piazza ( Piazza del Campo ) . The event dates back to medieval times and represents the theme of solidarity of the seventeen various neighborhoods ( contrada ) of Siena , each of which has a symbol and a coat of arms with accompanying flags and regalia . THE LAST VICTORY follows one of these contrada - Civetta - as its closely bonded families prepare for the Palio . They wear the colors , they set up long tables of food , and they raise money to compete in the race . A few days before the Palio each contrada wins a horse through what seems like a lottery and that horse is praised by the populace , a jockey is chosen and the race begins . The tender part of this ritual is supported by the fact that director John Appel has selected members of Civetta - Egidio Mecacci , Paolo Rossi , Alma Savini , Roberto Papei , Camilla Marzucchi and others - and follows their moods and exceitement and preparation for the big event . The 92 year old Egidio is perhaps the most charismatic as he relates the sad history that that the Civetta has not won the race since 1979 and all hopes ' ride ' on the beautiful horse that is assigned to them . The preparations are intense : the piazza is ringed with dirt over the stones to create a running track , the horse is groomed , and the members of the neighborhood gather and sing and eat in hopes they will win the Palio . The ending of the race is best left for the viewer to see , but in the course of just over a minute the race is complete and the impact the results have on the Civetta are telling . Appel and his crew have captured the essence of an important Sienese tradition and this little quiet film shares insights into the Italian sense of camaradiere and familia that is all too rarely seen today . The film is touching and worth viewing - for education and for entertainment well presented as a documentary . Grady Harp
A Fairly Good Story Distorted by Extremes	Jeff London ( ' Regarding Billy ' ) seems to be a director and writer who is committed to investigating the various degrees of problems young gay men face as they live in a homophobic society . His films resound with an honest feeling but too often he settles for stereotypes at both ends of the spectrum and that tends to weaken his work . The setting is a Bible College somewhere in America where hunky Paul ( Ron Petronicolos ) is entering his ' last year ' of study , his summer having been disrupted by an incident that is revealed later in the story . He re-joins his longtime roommate Robby ( Patrick Orion Hoesterey ) but keeps asking about his good friend Hector ( Merrick McMahon ) , a subject no one wants to address . He meets Hector's roommate Alex ( Mike Dolan ) and gradually Alex lets Paul know that he is gay . Paul learns that the Bible College has discovered Hector is gay and the Dean ( Rand Smith ) and his henchmen are out to have Hector expelled . Paul's changed ways are noted by Robby and he finally confides that his summer incident was a gay experience in a restroom - a fact that Robby finds repulsive at first but soon comes to support Paul's anguish about his parent's disapproval and punishment . As Paul's feelings for living who he really is surface he finds solace and sanctuary with Alex and the two become lovers . The Dean's spies gradually intimidate the group of four ( Paul , Alex , Hector and Robby ) and disciplinary action is taken . Among Paul's discoveries in his rebellion against the Bible College's stance against gays is the fact that the dean is a closet case and that is the reason for the rough action against Hector ( with whom the dean had an assignation ) . It all comes to a tragic end for some and a sense of freedom for others - to find out who belongs to which category requires watching the film ! The movie has its moments , due largely to the ability of the actors Petronicolos , Dolan , and McMahon , but it sadly is buried by otherwise mediocre to poor acting from the rest of the cast . The work of Rand Smith , Penelope Ma ( who plays the dean's wife ) , and Lawrence Rinzel ( who plays Paul's father ) is particularly weak just when strong acting could have supported the flimsier portions of the script . London needed to spend more thought on Bible Colleges , finding that more razor sharp line between right wing bias against gays instead of opting for the usual clichés that are found everywhere . That dividing line among young men challenged by sexual identity would have made a far more successful film . But the film is worth watching for the performances of the three lead actors - strong young men each ! Grady Harp
Another Look at Pre-Castro Cuba : An Homage to Family and Memory	CUBAN BLOOD , a direct to DVD little film , has a long history . Shot in the year 2000 in the Dominican Republic as the first film for director / writer Juan Gerard ( with writing assistance from Letvia Arza-Goderich ) the film began as a 3 epic about the small town of Holguín , Cuba in the year 1958 , a place where the Bautista / Castro clash was not as evident as in Havana . Originally named DREAMING OF JULIA ( referencing both the sole entertainment for the little town - a movie house - as well as the sole Americana Julia who plays a significant pivotal role in the story ) , the film was next called CUBA LIBRE and finally titled ( rather inappropriately CUBAN BLOOD . Juan Gerard has yet to make another film and one can understand why . Holguín is a pretty , peaceful town whose patriarch is Che ( Harvey Keitel - and the Che is an old grandfather , not the revolutionary ) , married to Beta ( the very talented and dignified Mexican actress Diana Bracho ) , who are the beloved grandparents of the little boy ( Andhy Méndez ) whose story this film is as narrated by off screen mature Tony Planas . The impending revolution results in a loss of power for the town and the story is a simple coming to grips with the changes that are to be inevitable . The boy meets the Americana Julia ( Iben Hjejle ) who befriends him ; he struggles with the town youths who mimic him as a chicken ; he dotes on movies he watches with his grandmother Beta ; he falls in love with the older Carmen ( Farah Alfonseca ) who in turn is in love with a quiet revolutionary sympathizer Ricky ( Gael García Bernal in his second film after his debut in AMORES PERROS ) ; he learns of Che's infidelity to Beta ; and he watches the town and his family disperse with the coming of Fidel Castro's revolution . Seeing the events of 1958 through the eyes of a child is enchanting and for the most part makes for a sweet , though saccharine , film . Cinematographer Kramer Morgenthau takes terrific advantage of the ' year without electricity ' motif and makes most of the film shot at night with candles and lanterns creating a storybook loveliness that heightens the romantic aspect of this film . Perhaps in the original 3 hour version there were better character developments - especially in the case of Gael García Bernal's very small but pivotal role , and in the use of Georg Stanford Brown as a Greek Chorus ' Black Bum ' who seems to be placed to make the events unfold with some sense of order . The supporting cast includes some strong actors : Gabino Diego , Cecilia Suárez , Aline Küppenheim , Daniel Lugo , etc whose roles were no doubt better fleshed out in the original . But it is clearly the influence of Harvey Keitel that helped Juan Gerard make this film happen . It has moments but it too often falls into the novella melodrama realm to make it work for audiences trying to figure out whether this is an historic drama or a Cuban version of ' Cinema Paradiso'-type Italian films . Grady Harp
Pablum for a Evening's View	Peter Mayle's popular novel ' A Year in Provence ' has been transferred to the screen by screenwriter Marc Klein under the odd direction of Ridley Scott , best known for such films as ' Hannibal ' , ' Gladiator ' , ' Matchstick Men ' , ' Thelma and Louise ' , ' Black Hawk Down ' , ' Blade Runner ' etc . and the result may surprise many viewers . No , this is not a shocker of a film but rather a too familiar tale of a man obsessed with making money who inherits a vineyard and château in Provence from the uncle that served as his family as a child and in returning to the old estate , finds the earth and his memories too long buried about how he loved the space of arrested time of his childhood . The man is British financial wizard Max Skinner ( Russell Crowe in a very subdued performance ) who as a young bright lad ( Freddie Highmore ) lived with Uncle Henry Skinner ( Albert Finney ) , learning the ins and outs of growing grapes and making wine . Max returns to the château after Uncle Henry's death with all intentions of polishing up the neglected place to place on the market to make yet more money . The live-in couple who maintain the place ( Francis Duflot - Didier Bourdon - and his wife Ludivine - Isabelle Candelier ) challenge Max's decision to sell the place , hiding some secrets about the vintages that will eventually alter the course of the story . Max slowly falls in love with his memories of his childhood , reconnecting with his love for his uncle , discovering a young beauty Fanny ( Marion Cotillard ) who owns a bistro and was actually a childhood ' friend ' to Max , and also discovering that the philandering uncle had an illegitimate daughter Christie ( Abbie Cornish ) who visits the château to get to know who her father was ( bringing along a deep knowledge of wine making from California's Napa Valley ! ) . The film is then a struggle between Max's obsession with money as abetted by his home coworkers Gemma ( Archie Panjabi ) and Charlie ( Tom Hollander ) and his changing need and love for the life and memories bound tightly to his Provence château . How it all works out is the relaxing if predictable finale of the story . The cast is attractive ( including even a bit part for the beautiful and talented Valeria Bruni Tedeschi ! ) and seem to meld with Ridley Scott's concept of offering a little fluff of French dessert . It is light in vein but beautiful to look at and it is interesting to see Scott and Crowe together in a non-violent venture ! Grady Harp
Train Games and Atrocities	TRANSSIBERIAN is a one note song . Set almost entirely in the claustrophobia of the Trans Siberian Express train that winds from Beijing to Moscow through the snowy terrain of Siberia , the story of deception and drug trafficking chugs along with some significant interruptions . But in the end the film suffers from the monotone setting of snow and terror . A carefree young couple is completing a missionary program of good will in Beijing for their church . Jessie ( Emily Mortimer ) is a photographer , Roy ( Woody Harrelson ) is fascinated by trains , and the couple heads home from their mission of goodwill on the Trans Siberian Express . They share a compartment with a strange couple - the seductive Carlos ( Eduardo Noriega ) and his young girlfriend Abby ( Kate Mara ) - whose livelihood is drug trafficking . Jessie is drawn into Carlos ' world and emotional field : a tragedy occurs and Jessie must confide in her husband that the couple they were growing to know is not what they seem . A police inspector Grinko ( Ben Kingsley ) joins the train and the thriller portion of the film picks up speed until the final somewhat surprising set of discoveries complete the story . Emily Mortimer owns the screen when she is present and carries our compassion despite circumstances less than honorable . There are holes a plenty in the script by writer / director Brad Anderson and Will Conroy , but jump on for the ride through the winter terrain - entertainment is always present . Grady Harp
High Adrenaline in a Nifty House	Director Simon West ( Lara Croft : Tomb Raider , The General's Daughter , Con Air ) seems bent on settling for an unrelenting stream of tension and terror in this little film WHEN A STRANGER CALLS . He selected a cast of actors who , while they are not big box office names , each arrives with a fine resume of work before the camera . The production matters in this film take focus and for those who enjoy the ' terror in the night ' genre of movies , this one will probably satisfy . Camilla Belle is Jill Johnson , a high school girl on parental probation for over use of her cell phone , etc . who is forced to accept a last minute baby sitting job instead of attending her High School Bonfire party . Driven by her father to the palatial , designer home on the lake of the Mandrakis family , she is amazed at the high tech status of the home - lights that turn on when you enter a room , pools of Koi with intermittent artificial rain piped in , security system and multiple phones . Her assigned children are asleep and she makes herself at home - until the telephone rings . This opens the story of a stranger who calls , says little , but terrifies Jill and eventually is revealed as a serial killer . The rest is easily predictable . Relying far too heavily on the absurdly moody music score by James Dooley for effect , the film doesn't give us enough character development to make it too involving . But that probably isn't the point here . There is a vast audience for the constant flow of scary movies , and as far as movies of that ilk goes , this one is well done . The cast , again , won't ring bells as far as name recognition , but they are a strong group . Grady Harp
Bonding : Necessities and Consequences	In a featurette on the DVD release version of THEN SHE FOUND ME writer ( with Alice Arlen and Victor Levin ) / producer / director Helen Hunt shares a ten year journey to have a film made of a novel by Elinor Lipman . Her cast shares in the very sentimental story of Hunt's devotion and seemingly endless charisma and abilities . The explanation for making this budget film are in many ways more successful than the film , a work the cast seems determined to classify as a comedy but a work that is far more a human drama . April Epner ( Helen Hunt ) is married to fellow schoolteacher Ben Green ( Matthew Broderick ) and longs to have a baby before her advancing age prevents her dream . April was adopted as an infant by a Jewish couple who subsequently gave birth to April's brother Freddy ( Ben Shenkman ) : April has always longed to have been Freddy's biological equal , wondering what it would feel like NOT to be adopted . April's busy life implodes : Ben has decided he doesn't like his life and leaves April , April's mother dies , April meets Frank ( Colin Firth ) a recently divorced writer and father of two children , and April is contacted by a man who can put April in touch with her birth mother - popular TV talk show hostess Bernice Graves ( Bette Midler ) . And if these turns of events weren't traumatic enough , April discovers that she has become pregnant by Ben and Ben is unsure whether he can handle the restructuring of his life to accommodate April . Cautiously April and Frank begin a rather tenuous courtship which is almost immediately threatened by April's discovery of her pregnant state . April and Bernice meet , exchange backgrounds , and make pacts to test their biologic relationship . How each of these characters makes promises that eventually damage each other and then resolve in unexpected ways becomes a study of the meaning of love and compassion among fragile human beings . While not a satisfying story on every level and a film too cluttered with inconvenient editing choices , the cast is strong and obviously committed , and the story ( neither a comedy or a drama but a mixture of the two ) tests credibility . But there are some fine moments and the lessons in human behavior are worth examining . Not a great movie but a strong little small budget film . Grady Harp
Variations on the Theme of Relationships	SEX , POLITICS & COCKTAILS is another version of the 30s-something relationship avoiders trying to master the art of partner browsing , ' looking for love in all the wrong places ' . This little shoestring film seems more like a stand-up comedian gig with visuals than a movie . That may be due to the fact that the writer and director and producer and star are all one person - Julien Hernandez . While Hernandez has a charm and adequate charisma to make this theme work , his film could have benefited from outsourcing the roles other than actor and make a little movie that would have seemed more entertaining and less self indulgent . Screenwriter Sebastien ( Julien Hernandez ) has turned 30 and has yet to have a significant relationship - or employment . When a film project is offered to him , despite the fact that the subject matter is a study of gay relationships , Sebastien pleads for the job and then turns to his best friend Daria ( Marisa Petroro ) who is constantly surrounded by gay friends to introduce him to the gay life ( Sebastien has been living a straight life ) . What follows is an endless set of encounters with gay men in interviews , in acting out , and in demonstrating just what makes various gay relationships work and not work . Sebastien is drawn to the crowd as they are drawn to him and begins to feel the gravity pull towards the men , one of whom is a wealthy African American male Billy ( Lonnie Henderson ) who dispels all of Sebastien's prejudices . The characters we meet in this survey are for the most part stereotypically flat and some of the ' controversial ' parts , such as Sebastien's first encounter with a solo night of video porn and a banana fugue , go on too long to remain funny . Julien Hernandez is a talented guy on the screen with a big dollop of charisma and natural charm . The one standout actor is Marisa Petroro who has a fine screen presence and saves the film in every scene in which she is featured . The problem with SEX , POLITICS & COCKTAILS lies in the direction and the decisions to employ too many camera tricks , flashbacks , stills on moving shots , and captions that only serve to slow the film down and reveal a degree of self indulgence . Others such as Woody Allen are capable of combining all the roles that Hernandez takes on but manage to keep the resulting work focused . But then this is Hernandez first outing and despite the overall weakness of this effort , he does give notice of a man with talent : he just needs a good director ! Grady Harp
Sometimes Silly Is What You Want !	PLUNKETT & MACLEANE has a purpose : entertainment . And during a season of rush and deadlines this little film provides enough anachronistic pleasures to fill a relaxing evening . The story is simple : two social polar opposites with reasons for distaste for society join forces to rob the rich . And all the rest is fantasy and period tongue in cheek humor . Jonny Lee Miller is the cleaner of the two and Robert Carlyle the scruffy intuitive thief . The two fall under different influences piloted by such fine actors as Liv Tyler , Alan Cumming , and Michael Gambon . This is high rolling farce with a silly but fun musical score and wonderful period costumes and mannerisms . It is not deep , it is not particularly good , but it IS entertaining . This kind of fluff leaves you whistling with a smile . Grady Harp
' And may the best man win . . . '	UNHITCHED is a fairly well made , generic Hollywood love story that provides a reasonably entertaining evening because of the actors cast in the roles . The story by director Stefan Schwartz and Ed Roe is recycled fluff with nothing new added , yet despite that fact the pacing and acting bring off a fun little film . As marriage enters the agenda of old friends , promiscuous James ( Steve John Shepherd ) is scheduled to marry Sarah ( Amy Smart , always a pleasure to watch ) and asks his best friend Olly ( the talented and hunky Irishman Stuart Townsend in a very nice comedic turn ) to be his Best Man . Olly , a writer whose first chapters have been lauded by his publisher ( Simon Callow ) and that early praise has thrown him into writer's block forcing him to take a menial job as a PA under grumpy feminist Tania ( Johdi May ) , fears accepting the role of Best Man out of the challenge tied to writing the wedding reception speech . He is encouraged not to accept the role by his roommate friend Murray ( 5'4 " Seth Green , who has many comedy roles to his credit - this one being the first with a fine British accent ) . Murray knows of James ' peppered past and sets out to stop the wedding - especially when he discovers that Olly has fallen for Sarah , mistaking her for Sarah's Maid of Honor Becka ( Kate Ashfield ) . Olly is a true friend and will sacrifice his longing for Sarah out of his loyalty to James - until Murray proves that James indeed is a promiscuous lothario . And the chase , with many a pratfall , begins as Olly ultimately sides with Murray to prevent his losing Sarah . Townsend makes a fine turn out of his obvious role , proving that he not only can master dramatic and intrigue roles , but light comedy ones as well . Seth Green may be small but he is a powerhouse of physical comedic talent . Amy Smart doesn't have much to do , but when she is on screen she glows with intelligence as well as beauty . It is the cast that makes this film work and they are enough of a pleasure to watch to merit sitting through another re-telling of a tired story . Grady Harp
Another Look and Listen to the Spirits of the Deceased	Hollywood seems increasingly interested in stories that deal with speaking with the dead , from the paranormal scientific approach to the solace for grief stance to the old-fashioned ghost tales . THE LAST SIGN sort of combines all of these approaches but does it with surprising subtlety and restraint and simply uses such ideas to speak to greater ideals such as forgiveness . Director Douglas Law uses a strong cast to relate the story of a widow Kathy ( Andie MacDowell ) whose alcoholic , abusive physician husband Jeremy ( Tim Roth ) recently died in an auto accident . Still living in their large home in Canada , Kathy and her three children are coping fairly well until Kathy begins to receive phone calls at 12 : 15 AM from someone who remains silent . Out of financial need and out of fear she rents the cottage on the grounds to a handsome young man Marc ( Samuel Le Bihan ) who has an aura of the strange about him : is it real or imagined ? At Kathy's work her boss Isabel ( Margot Kidder ) keeps her grounded and when Kathy relates seeing images of Jeremy and hearing suspicious sounds both of which cause flashbacks to Jeremy's abusive personality , Isabel encourages Kathy to attempt to speak to the dead and discover the secrets of messages and signs from the departed . Kathy's friend ( the chronically underused fine actress Mimi Kuzyk ) likewise is supportive and encourages Kathy to accept the attentive advances of Marc . Kathy's confused life calms when she is informed that the last sign that a departed can give is the one emotional trait that has troubled her most . The reveling of that sign from Jeremy and the resultant changes in Kathy and her family's life form a rather tender ending to this successful thriller movie . The surprises come from the quality of performances : Tim Roth even without significant lines creates a wholly believable character ; Margot Kidder returns to the screen after her notorious battle with bad publicity and gives an unforgettable performance of a quirky , slightly wacky but comic and caring oddball ; Andie MacDowell keeps the difficult character of a widow with mixed reactions to her husband's death in believable focus at all times . The lighting and camera work are superb , for once letting our imagination about ghosts take precedence over that tired use of cartoon computer animation ! Not a great movie , but certainly heads above much of the current Hollywood glut of other films in this genre . Worth watching . Grady Harp
The Drive for Media Infamy	Crónicas is a terse , highly atmospheric movie that begins with a terrific idea but then doesn't seem to now where to go with it . The director Sebastián Cordero himself admits that the ending was nebulous until one of the actors ( Leonor Watling ) suggested a way to make the film work . The notes for the alternative ending demonstrate how flimsy this screenplay was , even into the final edit . So it is a film that begins well then loses its way in the mud of Ecuador . Manolo Bonilla ( John Leguizamo ) , a upwardly mobile TV journalist seeking stardom , has traveled to Ecuador with his assistant Marisa Iturralde ( Leonor Watling ) and cameraman Ivan Suarez ( José María Yazpik ) to cover the story of the ' Monster of Babahoyo ' , a serial rapist and murderer of small children . As they are filming a strange man Vinicio Cepeda ( Damián Alcázar ) has wandered into town and during the paparazzi effect of Bonilla's crew filming the mass funeral of the latest victims of the ' Monster ' . Vinicio inadvertently runs over the twin of one of the victims resulting in an outrage by the father of the twins and a beating of Vinicio . Both are jailed and Manolo learns from the incarcerated Vinicio that he has secrets about the Monster . Seeing the chance for a ' Big Story ' that will assure his stardom Manolo pursues the fragments of evidence about the Monster until little by little he ' uncovers ' the truth . And the truth is terrifying . Along the bumpy script road there is a love affair between Marisa ( Ivan's girl ! ) and Manolo , communications with the Miami TV show Victor Hugo Puente ( Albert Molina , whom we only see on a TV screen ) , and distractions from the townspeople and police . At times the storyline feels so jumbled that it is difficult to keep characters and motivations straight . But in the end this is a rather powerful indictment about the TV / media aggressive insertion into global reporting and the questionable ethics involved . The cast is strong , making the best of a mediocre script . The camera work seems to enjoy the endless preoccupation with poverty and inclement weather and the bleak atmosphere becomes wearing . This is a film with a good idea that just becomes a bit crippled in production . Grady Harp
A Different Approach to a Genre Film	James Vásquez wrote and stars in what seems to be an autobiographical musing on the life of a plain , conflicted , wannabe actor who is trying to cope with his unsuccessful social life as he approaches his 29th birthday . Presented as a movie within a movie , Vásquez speaks as James Sanchez directly to the audience , sharing his background , his parents ( Annie Hinton and James Synjyn ) who progress from shock at his outing to overindulgent to the point of intrusion , and his best friends - the wacky Roxy ( Nicole Marcks ) and circuit guy Brandon ( David McBean ) . The general idea is how to make the almost closeted James into a happily paired man and how his friends and family go about making his happen is written with a lot of snappy dialogue and with the introduction of some really fine character actors - Kali Rocha as an hilarious HIV Nurse and Mike Doyle as the super hunk coffee house waiter who is to become James ' payoff ! Directed by Carrie Preston the film moves along with a fast clip despite the elected technique of ' instant replay ' used to define James ' illusions from his reality . The production values of this low budget film are modest to say the least , but the premise of showing the life of a gay man who is not on the top of his life is worth watching . And there are some very good performances by newcomers who seem to have a future . Grady Harp
Misalliances	Gaël Morel ( Wild Reeds , Under Another Sky , Full Speed ) seems to continue to test cinematic minefields and while not every film is a success , they each indicate that there is a reservoir of talent in this writer / actor / director that will eventually galvanize into to a significant voice . This much maligned little tale ' Le Clan ' ( oddly but in the end appropriately titled in English ' Three Dancing Slaves ' ) has more going for it than most audiences acknowledge : for all its weakness there are some very sensitive moments about father / son relationships , filial love , romantic love , racism , bigotry , and the ever-growing dysfunctional family problem . Three brothers live with their recently widowed father in a small town near the Alps in France . Marc ( Nicolas Cazalé ) is a rebellious youth , into drugs and petty crime and at constant contention with his overbearing father ( Bruno Lochet ) ; Christophe ( Stéphane Rideau ) is recently released from prison and is trying to live straight by starting from the bottom in a pork factory and working his way to the top ; Olivier ( Thomas Dumerchez ) is the youngest and though tattooed and quasi-rebellious is the sensitive one whose gender issues are just beginning to focus . The film is told in three versions , one by each brother , and from these segments we paste together a family disrupted and needy . Marc fights and performs dangerous deeds , Christophe struggles to re-create his broken life , and Olivier finds love and passion with Hicham ( Salim Kechiouche ) , Marc's friend , who is North African and repeatedly dances the capoeira , a slave dance , for his own expression and his need to connect with Olivier . Despite the differences in these young men there are repeated encounters that signify their bonding . One quiet scene shows the father awake , sitting and watching the troubled sons asleep , naked , entwined in each other's bodies : it should be clipped for a still shot as it is very beautiful . There really is little resolution of an overall story ; these three short stories simply end in their own fashion and the interlocking meaning is left to the viewer . Each brother is a ' slave ' in his own manner . Yes , there are moments of violence , a pitiful animal abuse scene , and gaps in dialogue that bump the film around in a clumsy fashion , but look for the little moments of visual beauty and the movie takes on different meaning . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Fun Fluff on the Outside , Some Solid Statements on the Inside	' Eating Out 2 : Sloppy Seconds ' is a sequel that is not really a sequel - unless the common thread of social attitudes and gender dilemmas as an ongoing tale is the source . A low budget , well scripted , tightly directed ( Phillip J . Bartell ) little film about gay relationships , attraction blunders , and pretending to be something we aren't ( mixed representations that Shakespeare used a lot ! ) result in a light and ultimately charming little movie . Kyle ( Jim Verraros ) loves Marc ( Brett Chukerman ) but tires of Marc's obsession with one-night stands and the relationship is ' over ' . Pining Kyle is supported by his two loony girl friends Tiffani ( Rebekah Kochan ) and Gwen ( Emily Brooke Hands ) , each with gender attraction problems of her own . In an art class taught by flamboyant pseudo-straight Neil ( Michael Serrato ) the three meet the new nude model Troy ( superstud Marco Dapper ) and together they hatch a plan to repair Kyle's old damage : Troy for all his demeanor is a bisexual who wants to be straight . . . . maybe and supplies the key to a game of deceit . The manner in which Kyle fakes a relationship with Tiffani in order to convince Troy to join him in a ' change-over program ' ( read , get close to him . . . ) leads to a series of hilarious ' go straight ' classes and confrontation with parents who play both sides of the ' support our sons ' game and leads to a perky ending that just happens to make some comments on perceptions of people , with reality winning . The cast is young ( with the exception of Mink Stole and Sarah Lilly , both of whom offer solid professional backgrounds to their roles ) and attractive and seems to be having a great time pulling off this light farce . There is plenty of spectacular eye candy ( Marco Dapper , Brett Chukerman , Nicholas James , Adrian Quinonez , James Michael Bobby , etc ) and the women's roles are kept light and genuine . A great movie it is not , but a fun diversion it most assuredly is . Grady Harp
THE OMEN : A More Humanistic Approach	Remembering the 1976 new film THE OMEN this viewer recalls someone making a dog growling sound in the parking lot at movie's end and how that effect sent gasps and chills through those who had just witnessed Damien and his dogs - a sign of a thoroughly successful thriller . Now thirty years later ( and having the original effect watered down by the subsequent three sequels ) out comes a remake of THE OMEN and once again the story and production values of the film jolt even the more staid viewers . Armageddon now seems frightfully at hand ! Though the script is essentially intact form the original version , this OMEN is cast with actors who make the story more credible because they imbue it with more humanly drawn character interpretations . Much of the power of the film lies in the superb performance by Liev Schreiber as the politically important father of a ' stillborn ' son that was ' exchanged ' at birth : he gives a warmth and honesty that were elusive in Gregory Peck's performance . Much the same can be said about Pete Postlethwaite's tormented priest who tries to alter the events threatened if the ' adopted ' strange son Damien is allowed to mature , and to David Thewlis as the photographer who helps Schreiber's character come to grips with the decision he made about child swapping on the day of the birth of Damien . Mia Farrow , cosmetically enhanced to look oddly young , is the smarmy nanny and Michael Chabon gives a bit of class to the priest with the dreaded secrets on how to end the impending destruction if Damien is allowed to live . The weak link in the cast is Julia Stiles who here just can't seem to inhabit the role of the increasingly terrified mother of Damien : likewise the child selected to portray Damien ( Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick ) appears more a makeup artist's vision rather than a child whose apparent normalcy could have made the evil within more terrifying . The special effects are used well as is a musical score by Marco Beltrami ( though not nearly as memorable as that by Jerry Goldsmith in the original ) . An interesting finding is that the original 6-year-old actor portraying Damien ( Harvey Stephens ) is cast in a tiny part here as a tabloid reporter , giving the feeling that the spirit of Damien is still pervasive . Director John Moore gets most of right . Not a bad movie as many have stated and one that certainly could have been more powerful with some casing changes , but this film still causes the jitters in an otherwise tranquil evening ! Grady Harp
Reason to Recall the Impact of H . G . Well's Apocalyptic Book	The real dazzler about this reincarnation of an old story is that it IS the reincarnation of an old story . H . G . Wells published his scary sci-fi novel in 1898 , Orson Welles terrified the country in his 1938 radio drama version of the book , in 1953 the book became a film , and now in the time of terrorism Steven Spielberg makes the story not an invasion from Mars but an enemy from within the bowels of the globe . Quite a fest for a book over a hundred years old to still seem pertinent . Steven Spielberg once again proves he can outdo most anyone with costly productions . His style is evident from the first moments when the actions seems centered on the broken family of Ray ( Tom Cruise ) and his ex-wife Maryann ( Miranda Otto ) as she leaves their children Rachel ( Dakota Fanning ) and Ray ( Justin Chatwin ) with Ray in New Jersey while Maryann and her new husband take a trip to Boston . The tension is obvious : Ray is not a father-type and finds communication with his children tedious at best . The Spielberg family drama recipe is set . The action starts almost immediately with newscasts of electrical field disturbances on the media and then the occurrence of lightning without thunder in New Jersey . In rapid motion the etiology of the altered weather is seen to be the emergence out of the ground of huge tripod machines that destroy everything in sight ( " Is it terrorists ? " Rachel repeatedly asks , driving home the underlying tone of Spielberg's intention of making the story relevant to our time ) . New Jersey is destroyed but Ray and the kids find a car that works and drives toward Boston for reconciliation with Maryann . What happens between New Jersey and Boston is a battle to end all battles during which time Ray discovers the importance of his fatherhood , the love of his children , and his own humbling recognition that he is but one member of the planet earth . The stars of the film are the extraordinary tripod machines , though Cruise and Fanning hold their own . One leaves the film feeling it could have had more impact had it stuck more closely to the book , but then that's been done before . Grady Harp
A Dandy Summer Popcorn Movie	SAHARA is one of those films to view when escapism is the goal of the evening . Made along the same lines as the ' Raiders of the Lost Ark ' genre , mixing adventure with comedy , a smattering of love interest , a dollop of social comment , and some pretty fine scenery that creates a stage for likable actors such as Matthew McConaughey , Steve Zahn , Penelope Cruz , William H . Macy , Delroy Lindo , and Lambert Wilson , SAHARA succeeds in pulling off an interesting caper film . Not having read the apparently sacrosanct novel by Clive Cussler upon which the film is based , this 2 hour plus film seemed to putt along without any great shakes , without much in the way of character development , without any hint of screen chemistry between Cruz and McConaughey , but with the surprise pleasure of watching Steve Zahn steal the scenes with his comic talent . It is that kind of film - not to be taken seriously or valued higher than its intent . It is just entertainment - and there is nothing wrong with that ! Grady Harp
Pay To Live : Another Aspect of the ' Jewish Problem ' in Nazi Germany	Despite the fact that there have been many good films about the Holocaust , the Nazi manipulated genocide of the Jews in World War II , there is enough room for a new perspective to that hideous period in history to make THE COUPLE a welcome addition to the repertoire . Written by Director John Daly based on a story by Kendrew Lascelles this film reveals a little known bit of history that shows that the Nazis allowed the wealthy Jews to ' buy their freedom and lives ' at enormous losses . And the key Nazi , at least in this story , is none other than Himmler . Joseph Krauzenberg ( Martin Landau ) is a very wealthy German Jewish industrial tycoon whose fortune is mirrored in his palaces that are more like museums of great art . But in the year 1944 his important steel mills and other major industries are needed by the Nazis and so a plan is hatched to offer Krauzenberg , his wife Rachel ( Judy Parfitt ) and his considerable family the opportunity to escape death by allowing them to leave Germany for Switzerland and ultimately for Palestine . The only servants the Krauzenbergs maintain are the Vassmans - Ingrid ( Caroline Carver ) and Hans ( Kenny Doughty ) - an Aryan couple who in reality work for the Underground and are actually Jews under strong cover . Eichmann ( Steven Mackintosh ) and Himmler ( Danny Webb ) are perpetrating the plan to gain all of the wealth and lands and homes and art of the Krauzenbergs and they attend a dinner party at the Krauzenberg palace to sign the final papers . One of the other officers Edelhein ( Christopher Fulford ) is the most repulsive of the group and despite the fact that Ingrid Vassman is pregnant , Edelhein pursues her as a perfect foil for implanting his precious seed in the ' Aryan beauty ' to populate the new Germany . As the night of transaction occurs Krauzenberg visits his large family being held by Eichmann in the Gestapo and reassures them that all will be safe . The Vassmans love the Krauzenbergs and ultimately confess that they are Jewish and wish to escape to Palestine with the Krauzenbergs . In a fast paced finale the trials and tribulations of the final plan are worked through in a somewhat surprising way . THE COUPLE is beautifully photographed ( the film was shot in Poland despite the fact that the Krauzenberg estates were in Hungary ) and the mood of evil is always present in the night scenes with the requisite searchlights penetrating the darkness . Laudau and Parfitt are strong as are Webb , Mackintosh and Fulford . Neither Caroline Carver nor Kenny Doughty is up to the task of making the Couple credible . But the overall impact of the film is the focus of the evil that drove the Nazi machine , even with this slight bit of human kindness that was bestowed on the Krauzenberg family at such an awful cost . Grady Harp
Ramifications of a Hoax	Clifford Irving ( Fake , Trial , Final Argument , The Spring ) became a sort of national hero when he contrived to publish ' The Autobiography of Howard Hughes ' , a 400 page phony but well researched book that , while it was never published , did cause enough of a stir among the New York publishing cognoscenti and those surrounding the then President Richard Nixon that it now is recognized as a HOAX of writing that triggered the final discovery of the Watergate Scandal and the subsequent dethroning of Nixon . Those facts alone make this sometimes rather tepid film interesting enough to sit through . Screenwriter William Wheeler has adapted Irving's book into a study of the 1970s and Lasse Hallström gives it just the right balance between soft crime and strange comedy to keep it afloat . Clifford Irving ( Richard Gere ) is down on his literary luck , searching for the right kind of story that will set is publisher Andrea Tate ( Hope Davis ) on fire . Irving wife Edith ( Marcia Gay Harden ) is an active painter and doesn't give Irving the support he gets from his pal Dick Suskind ( Alfred Molina ) , but on the messy floor of Edith's studio is a rag magazine with a cover picture of the mysterious Howard Hughes and bingo ! up comes the idea for an ' autobiography ' of the wizard as confided to Irving and researched by Suskind . That is really the plot then , how these two men squirm around lies and good luck to forge papers and gain the favor of the publishers . Of course it all caves in , but in the publicity about the book Nixon's secrets are revealed and the rest is history . Gere , Molina , Harden , Davis , Stanley Tucci , Julie Delphy and Eli Wallach add immeasurably to the success of the film . No , it is not a heavy story , but the scandalous years of the 1970s are treated realistically and provide a lot of memories , both good and bad , about how we all changed in that post Vietnam time . Worth watching for that ! Grady Harp
Unfortunate Title	Sometimes the title of a film has connotations that put people off , preventing them from viewing a film that has a lot of good points just because the title is tacky . Such is the case for SLUTTY SUMMER . This low budget first film by writer / producer / director / actor Casper Andreas may not have the substance or finesse that other independent films have , but taken as a whole it is an entertaining outing that deserves more credit than it has received . One wonders if a different title and cover image would have resulted in a larger more attentive audience . Summer in Manhattan and new writer Marcus ( Andreas ) has just terminated a relationship with unfaithful Julian ( Christos Klapsis ) and finds solace in his man-hungry but gay-friendly friend Marilyn ( Virginia Bryan ) who lands him a waiter position in a small restaurant where all waiters are various stereotypes of gay men : ex-model sleeparound Tyler ( Jamie Hatchett ) , hopeless romantic wannabe actor Peter ( Jeffrey Christopher Todd ) , nellie flamboyant one night stander Luke ( Jesse Archer ) and the obnoxious manager Kevin ( Lance Werth ) . Through a lot of visits to bars and hangouts the crew try to soften Markus ' hurt and in doing so open Markus ' eyes ( indeed , everyone's eyes ) to the significance of relationships in the flippant world of gay Manhattan . Yes , the story has been done before but life keeps repeating the same stories , too , and it is fine to have a different take on same sex ways of life and philosophy in the big city . For a film shot in 14 days there is a fine amount of attention paid to small details of conversations . Markus proves an economical director . The cast of mostly inexperienced actors does well , and even if they do seem to be parodies of stereotypes , they do establish understandable characters . For a first film this is a pretty successful outing . With different packaging perhaps it could have had a better chance in the theaters . Grady Harp
Robbers and Cops	ORDINARY DECENT CRIMINAL has to be one of the more tongue-in-cheek titles Hollywood has devised for a story apparently based on a real life infamous Irish gangster Martin Cahill whose claim to fame was robbing banks and getting away with it while posing as a preceptor of family values ! Yet in this reincarnation the plot is suffused with comedy and typical capers and served up by a fine cast on a shaky platform . Michael Lynch ( Kevin Spacey , always terrific to watch even in uneven films ) is a ' gentleman robber ' , married to two sisters ( Linda Fiorentino and Helen Baxendale ) whose latest criminal diversion involves the theft of a Caravaggio painting . How he utilizes his cohorts and evades the police headed by Noel Quigley ( the extraordinarily gifted actor Stephen Dillane who played Stephen Woolf in ' The Hours ' ) . The cast is good and makes the best of a confusing arc of storyline written by Gerard Stembridge . Director Thaddeus O'Sullivan keeps things moving along but slides into some boring and non-additive variances from the plot and character development that threaten to grind down the film . Tack on a corny ending not in keeping with the real character on whose life the story is based and the recipe for lack of success in the theaters is obvious . But keep the expectations low and this film will entertain . Sad that for its distribution in the USA the cover of the DVD lists Colin Farrell as one of the stars ( Spacey , Fiorentino , Farrell ) which says a lot about PR grossness : Farrell is a VERY minor extra here and should any other actor be listed in top billing it is Stephen Dillane ! Not a great heist film but it's always good to see more of Spacey . Grady Harp
Stumbling Toward the Abyss	Stories about the cruel annihilation of physical , emotional and spiritual lives that follow addiction to drugs appear to be constant sources for films . If seeing the destruction of people's lives when they become addicted to drugs helps those who are on the teetering brink of trying heavy drugs to avoid the fall , then these films are well worth the making . Yet if the constant barrage of stories such as this one fails there , then the reason for continuing this line of film-making is questionable and wearing . Such is the case for this very well acted , directed and produced little film from Australia . Based on Luke Davies ' novel " Candy : A Novel of Love and Addiction " and adapted for the screen by Davies and director Neil Armfield , this story is divided into thirds : heaven , earth , and hell , unfortunately leaving the audience in the final category . Dan ( Heath Ledger ) is a poet who drifts around living off loans from friends . He is deeply in love with young artist Candy ( the very beautiful and talented Abbie Cornish ) and together they use drugs , advancing to heroin through the encouraging pastime of Professor Casper ( Geoffrey Rush ) who manages his addiction rather well and maintains a live-in lad Jorge ( an impressive little debut by Roberto Meza-Mont ) . Dan and Candy explore their passion and love with the enhancement of drugs : this is the ' heaven ' segment . But their disconnected relationship is questioned by Candy's parents ( Tony Martin and Noni Hazlehurst ) and when Candy announces their engagement , her parents fear the lack of character that Dan represents . Dan and Candy marry , now completely addicted to drugs , live in a ware house , and without income Candy turns to being a hooker and Dan tries to become a male hustler with out success , finding it easier to steal credit cards and explore fraud : this section is ' earth ' . Candy becomes pregnant and the couple decides to go clean , suffering together the withdrawal that eventually leads to Candy's miscarriage , an event that breaks the spirit of everyone around them . They see the need to be clean and they move to a shack house outside Melbourne where they attempt to find a new start only to go back to drugs ( hell episode has started ) and Candy descends into psychosis , gradually ending up institutionalized . Drugs have fractured Dan's and Candy's love , their family ties and even their relationship with Casper and the few other friends they have . The film is unrelentingly dark except for the few moments in the heaven portion when the passion and love of the couple is radiant . Ledger and Cornish are superb if a bit flat due to the storyline , Rush delivers his usual fine acting and Martin and Hazlehurst show significant talent in tough roles . The problem with the film is its overdrawn length about a situation that changes very little : there is no arc to the storyline , just a constant unrelenting descent in to the abyss of self-destruction that accompanies the devastation of drug addiction . But if the viewer doesn't mind a story with no light at the end then this is a very well done film from a solid crew . Grady Harp
A Surprisingly Good Film !	Coming across a movie on the shelf that boasts a cast of fine actors but has a title that seems to have appeared out of nowhere takes a bit of faith to rent / buy it . Such is the case for THE SIMIAN LINE , a film by TV director Linda Yellen ( who also co-wrote story with Michael Leeds and brought in Gisela Bernice to pen the screenplay ) that is just enough off center to keep a movie edgy but very entertaining . Katherine ( Lynn Redgrave ) is a real estate person in New Jersey and is part of a May / December affair with stained glass artist Rick ( Harry Connick Jr . ) . She leases the house adjoining hers to a Manhattan couple Paul ( Jamey Sheridan ) and Sandra ( Cindy Crawford ) who are waiting for a financial break . Other tenants include Marta ( Monica Keena ) and Billy ( hunky Dylan Bruno ) both of whom are waiting for their break into Rock band status . At a welcoming party Rick invites Arnita ( Tyne Daly ) , a frumpy but kind fortune teller / spiritual communicator who upon entering Katherine and Rick's home sees two ghosts Edward ( William Hurt ) and Mae ( Samantha Mathis ) who are ' hanging around invisible to all , but with ongoing comments about love lost and the past . Arnita predicts that by New Year's Eve one of the couples will be separated , and with a bad taste in everyone's mouth the party folks oust her , but not until Arnita leaves her business cards . The remainder of the story deals with each couple's anxiety about being the one that will break up : Katherine fears the younger Rick is falling for Sandra , Paul fears Sandra is losing interest in his failing business problems , and Marta is called to claim her little boy Jimmy ( Jeremy Zelig ) whose father is a man she met during a previous breakup with Billy . And they all seek advice from Arnita . How these dilemmas resolve and which of the couples parts company is the puzzle of the story and it is resolved well - if a bit saccharine . The cast is uniformly excellent ( Eric Stoltz has a small but key part ) and Linda Yellen knows how to gain the best from her talented cast . Yes , it is a bit of a feel good movie - but what is wrong with dessert now and then ? Worth attention . Grady Harp
Silly Attempt to Update Jane Austen Succeeds in its Excesses !	There are so many films like BRIDE AND PREJUDICE that a term has been created for them : Bollywood . The term is not meant to be derogatory but it does designate a certain genre of films from India that harken back to the Hollywood Musicals of the 40s and 50s . The stories are usually rather like recipes : girls meet boys , tease and flirt and pine away when something evil happens , then everything works out happy-wappy to the tune of a big , loud showstopper musical extravaganza . The aspect that makes these silly movies watchable is the fact that they are so over the top and colorful and over produced and acted and danced and sung that the viewer can't help but have a good time . Director Gurinder Chadha has updated Jane Austen's ' Pride and Prejudice ' with the help of screenwriter Paul Mayeda Berges and the result is a weak facsimile of the novel but a fairly good platform for speaking out against prejudice both in India and outside India ( England and the USA ) . There is the requisite matchmaker mother ( Nadira Babbar ) and reticent daughter-loving father ( Anupam Kher ) and the run of the story concerns finding husbands by arrangement for the daughters . One of the daughters Lalita ( the stunningly beautiful and talented Aishwarya Rai ) is wise and advanced in her philosophy , not ready to tolerate the attitudes of English or American men . The others are ready for marriage and for making exceptions to emotional responses in order to follow the Indian tradition of marrying well . Enter American millionaire hotelier Darcy ( an utterly bland Martin Henderson ) , an English cad Johnny ( Daniel Gillies ) , an oafish expatriated Indian who has made his fortune in ' Amrika ' and comes home to find a bride Mr . Kohli ( Nitin Chandra Ganatra ) , and another Indian of wealth Balraj ( Naveen Andrews who sings and dances like a pro ) . The misadventures of courting spread from the girl's hometown to Goa to London to Los Angeles and finally all's well that ends well . Propelling this slight story are songs and dance numbers and a plethora of expensive costumes and sets and elephants and casts of thousands , all seeming like too much of a good thing . The acting is rudimentary ( there really is no apparent need for characterization , even from such pros like Marsha Mason in cameos ) but the ' performances ' are just great fun . Take this film for what it is - fizzy , frolicking summer entertainment - and you'll have a good time . Just don't expect Gurinder Chadra's usual insightful , touching work . Grady Harp
Toga Epic , Short on Story , Long on Sincerity	THE LAST LEGION , apparently based on the novel of the same name by Valerio Manfredi and cut and pasted together as a screenplay by Jez Butterworth , Tom Butterworth , Carlo Carlei and Peter Rader , may come across as a rather under-budgeted film as directed by an earnest Doug Lefler , but it does seem to have heart . The scenery is terrific and the cast consists of some of the better actors on screen who seem to have taken on this project out of respect for Lefler . It is entertaining but hardly deep . Based partly on history , the story begins with the short reign of 12-year-old Caesar Romulus Augustus ( Thomas Sangster ) just days before the Goths overthrown the city of Rome . Under the protection of Aurelius ( Colin Firth ) and Demetrius ( a buffed up and solid Rupert Friend ! ) and after the death of his parents , the young Caesar takes to the hills only to be captured and sentenced to isolation on Capri with his trusted teacher and adviser Ambrosinus ( Ben Kingsley of course ) . So far so true . From here however we begin the struggle for finding troops to re-take Rome and end up in Britannia , the home of the last legion of Roman soldiers . Along the way the escaping group is joined by a Mira ( Aishwarya Rai ) , a beautiful ' soldier ' from Constantinople and all manner of Goths and turncoat Romans ( John Hannah , Iain Glen , Peter Mullan , Owen Teale , Harry Van Gorkum , James Cosmo , et al ) , but once in Britannia their struggles are rewarded by finding the sword of Caesar that saves the day and becomes embedded in a stone and renamed Ex Caliber . And oh yes , Ambrosinus stays alive through the years to become Merlin , the one who now advises King Arthur as a child who will successfully pull the sword from the stone ! There is a sincerity of style here and a group of fine actors who seem like they are enjoying their holiday and that feeling extends to the audience . Keep expectations low and the film will provide a satisfying evening's entertainment . Grady Harp
All the ingredients of a superb film . . . just not mixed yet !	BEAU TRAVAIL is a curious film . It is based on the story ' Billy Budd ' by Herman Melville and on the operatic adaptation by EM Forster of Benjamin Britten's magnificent BILLY BUDD and has all the right pieces in place to make a fine , updated adaptation of the story . Unfortunately the script fails to find the message of the story and so there is much correct atmosphere but little character development . The original story revolves around a warship ( The Rights o ' Man ) in the French and English war that takes on recruits while at sea . The Captain relates the story of how he was forced to hang the magnificently beautiful and loved new recruit Billy Budd because of an accidental death in part due to Budd's fatal flaw - his stammer . The Master at Arms notices Billy from the beginning as a creature of physical beauty and there is a strong physical attraction to the lad . Unable to cope with his feelings , the Master at Arms plots for the downfall of the object of his desire and lust and it is his manipulation that results in Billy's hanging , nearly causing a mutiny by Billy's shipmates . Billy is a Parsifal character - a ' guileless fool ' , who even in his sentencing to death still blesses the Captain of the ship . All well and good . The film here transplants much of this tale to a Foreign Legion outpost in Africa , and much of the above is insinuated . The appropriation is so complete that portions of Britten's opera BILLY BUDD are used to set scenes . But there the magic stops . The ' master at arms ' does not seem to desire the beautiful recruit but for some unexplained reason seeks to have him gone . Such a shame . It is as though the writer wanted to avoid homosexual overtones of the original and as a result the characters have no where to go . All of the actors are good , the scenery is bleak ( a desert here instead of the bleak sea of the original ) and appropriate , the music is an eclectic mix that works . All the ingredients are here to make a fine film , but it just doesn't come off . The director needed to see the old film version of Billy Budd starring Terrence Stamp to see that pitting the evil , sadistic , lusty master at arms against the virile , sensitive and good young man can and does work well .
A Christmas Eve to Remember !	THE ICE HARVEST is a quirky little film that is very much in keeping with the writing style of novelist Scott Phillips but even more so in the hit ' em where it counts style of screenplay adapters Richard Russo and Robert Benton ! This is one of the better film noir entries into the black comedy version that has appeared in a long time . Director Harold Ramis knows how to move his talented cast around in a never-a-dull-moment adventure that no matter how bizarre the many twists become , the viewer is glued to the screen afraid to miss a moment of the convoluted plat . Charlie Arglist ( John Cusack ) is a lawyer for the crime mob in Wichita , Kansas informs us at the beginning that though people say there is no such thing as a perfect crime , he is about to show us one . It seems Charlie has found a way to steal a hefty amount of cash from Kansas City crime bass Bill Guerrard ( Rand Quaid ) but must enlist the help of pornographer / strip club owner Vic ( Billy Bob Thornton ) to carry it off . Once Charlie has the 2 million dollars and turns it over to Vic , all manner of bizarre events occur . Charlie's best friend is a drunk Pete ( Oliver Platt ) who , in addition to being inebriated every moment , has married Charlie's ex-wife . Charlie pines after stripper Renata ( Connie Nielson ) and this entanglement has its own sour repercussions . The crux of the story is how in one short Christmas Eve the ideal heist meets with every possible bad consequence , leaving the ending as a sparkling surprise that only makes the audience feel guilty that they should have noticed all the clues along the way ! Cusack , Platt , Thornton , Quaid , and Nielsen turn in tour de force performances , rasty , silly and wild as they come . The pacing of the film is so fast that the story seems to whiz by in a flash of ludicrous events . There is a lot of violence and a lot of dialogue that is as raw as the strip club scenery , but it all works . Very well . Few cinematographers have been able to capture the sleazy ice slick atmosphere of midwinter bleakness in a dowdy area of Kansas ( though shot in Illinois ) as well as Alar Kivilo . The DVD offers two alternative endings , each every different from the chosen one , as well as some outtakes by Billy Bob Thornton and director comments that are fun and entertaining . Grady Harp
The South , The Fifties , and Emergence	Deborah Kampmeier has written and directed an atmospheric film about life in the South ( Alabama to be specific ) in the 1950s , using this confused period of time to examine how a child can rise out of her squalid surroundings , replacing her disappointments in expectations of family , friends , and trauma with tenuous grip on the dream of becoming a performer like her idol Elvis Presley . Fortunate for Kampmeier she cast the rather amazing young Dakota Fanning to inhabit the role of the feisty but abused Lewellen , a headstrong prepubescent girl whose mother deserted her at birth , leaving her to live with her abusive Lothario , worthless father ( David Morse ) whose current paramour is his ex-wife's sister ( Robin Wright Penn ) who leaves Lewellen also when the father's abuse and desertion overwhelm . Lewellen's sole friend is young Buddy ( Cody Sanford ) who shares show and tell games with Lewellen until a promise to find tickets for an Elvis Presley concert includes a ' favor ' for Buddy's older friend ( the rape sequence that is germinal to the film and all the more powerful for its lack of graphic detail ) . Lewellen's life crumbles : even her Bible thumping grandmother ( Piper Laurie ) can't console her , her only support comes form her old African American friend ( Afemo Omilami ) who is Lewellen's sole visionary source for Lewellen's gift for music and soul jazz . Some change comes when Lewellen's father is struck by lightning , ending his career of philandering and making him dependent on Lewellen for all his needs . How Lewellen rises out of all of this stagnation and arrives at an important life change forms the resolution to this story . There is not a lot that is novel about this film , but the flavor of the missing connections is improved by the general feeling of the Southern situation in the 50s well captured by the camera work and the music . Dakota Fanning continues to show a remarkable degree of depth in her talent as an actress . Watching the film for her performance alone is worth the time . Grady Harp
The Loneliness of Unpartnered Dreamers	SHOPGIRL works on a number of levels . While its focus is an examination between types of romance , it also manages to address many issues of the isolation of living alone in Los Angeles - or any big city for that matter . But Los Angeles , with its sprawl of ill-defined suburbs and neighborhoods searching for a city's identity , a city where a lot of lonely people mount the freeways daily to drive to unfulfilling jobs that merely keep their lives together , snuffing out many possibilities of life enhancing experiences , is the perfect fit for Steve Martin's screenplay adaptation of his very Los Angeles novella by the same name . Mirabelle Buttersfield ( Claire Danes ) , an immigrant wannabe artist from Vermont lives alone with her distant cat Sylvia in Silver Lake , one of the borderlands of LA , and drives her pickup to Saks Fifth Avenue daily to work the glove counter . Most of her day is spent daydreaming while watching fellow sexy worker Lisa ( Bridgette Wilson-Sampras ) charm the customers with fragrances . She meets another loner Jeremy ( Jason Schwartzman ) , an unkempt , broke , but good-spirited youth her age in a Laundromat and the mutual needs of both characters opens a strange but sweet romance overture . But simultaneously Mirabelle meets the wealthy 50-something divorced Ray Porter ( Steve Martin in a subdued , no pratfalls role ) and Ray immediately but subtly begins sending gifts and dates and surprises Mirabelle's way , resulting in a ' perfect courtship ' in her eyes but intended as a no strings sexual outlet in Ray's view . The story is one that compares the May / December high-class romance with the more sensitive and realistic wobbly romance between two young needy people and the manner in which it resolves feels right . Danes is superb in this delicate role as are Schwartzman , Martin , and Wilson-Sampras . Director Anand Tucker keeps the story flowing naturally , as ' natural ' as he can with the writer and actor being the one with the clout . Each of the sections of this monopoly game of courtship is well played until the lugubrious musical score by Barrington Pheloung pushes toward the maudlin . But in all , this is a fine little film , beautifully acted , with a lot of important information about life and love in the loneliness of a big city . Grady Harp
A Fast Paced Action Thriller That's Not All That Bad !	Viewers seem to be pretty much against this action flick , seeming to put it down because if IS an action flick , a fact that for this viewer prevents looking for the good parts of a movie that succeeds in making us think . Director Andy Cheng ( also a co-writer for the script ) has a background as a movie stunt coordinator and that talent serves him well in this fast paced , explosive , interesting film . Alex Thomas ( Cuba Gooding , Jr . ) is a secret agent assigned to the President when an assassination occurs : Thomas takes a bullet for his beloved President ( Jack Scalia ) and comforts the First Lady ( Anne Archer ) when the President is pronounced dead . Thomas works for Head Agent Vaughn Stevens ( James Woods ) who comforts the grieving Thomas and sends him off duty to recover : Thomas goes off on a drinking binge and is discovered by an aggressive Pulitzer Prize news reporter Kate Crawford ( Angie Harmon ) and between the two of them they uncover a conspiracy that involves top ranking people . The perpetrator of the assassination is one Jack Baldwin ( Peter Greene ) who guides the events from is hidden space . Every lead Crawford uncovers is promptly destroyed by explosions or fires until the final confrontation of Baldwin with Thomas and Crawford . And just when the viewer thinks every step is utterly predictable , the ending leaves the truth about the assassination to the viewer . . . ! Cuba Gooding , Jr . is a fine talent in search of a great role : in this film he does well underplaying his character with some of the subtleties that demonstrate more of his talent . Angie Harmon delivers a fine performance : she deserves more roles . Anne Archer remains a pleasure to watch , even in this small but pivotal role , and James Woods , James Selby , and to an extent the grossly disfigured , post multiple plastic surgeries Burt Reynolds create credible characters . This is not a great movie , but is certainly is one with some fine elements and offers promise for new director Andy Cheng in his stepped up role . Yes , it is a bit predictable until the end , but it is a far better film than many of the movies that had the experience of a theatrical run ( this one went straight to DVD ! ) . Worth an evening's watching . Grady Harp
An Old Song Well Sung	There is a reason this film from the Philippines has garnered so much attention and audience approval at festivals around the world . Yes , it is a very low budget film ( and technically that shows ) , but the message is a sound one . Not just another film about the massage parlor antics created to titillate the viewer , THE MASSEUR ( MASAHISTA ) as conceived and written for the screen by Boots Agbayani Pastor is a close examination of the old conflict between father and son , expectations and disappointments , needs and failures to fulfill , and in the end the mourning for a relationship that never succeeded . Director Brillante Mendoza has found the balance between sensual imagery and social comment that makes this little film work very well indeed . Illiac ( Coco Martin ) is a handsome young lad who , because his alcoholic and carousing absentee father cannot support his family , has left his home to work as a masseur in Manila , assuming the financial responsibility of his family . Illiac works in a massage parlor - rooms like closets so close that conversations are easily heard - where he has his regular clients as well as newcomers , each of whom pays for massage an tips for all the ' extras ' the boys are more than willing to offer for a price . The film moves back and forth between Illiac's home and his work in Manila and after his father dies , Illiac must return home and be the one who must assist the mortician in preparing his father's body for burial . This tradition becomes an analogy for the work Illiac performs on the massage table and the conversations and physical involvements between Illiac and client mirror the ministrations at the funeral parlor in a powerful and deeply moving way . Illiac is able to cope with both sides of his lot until he discovers some secrets left in his deceased father's belongings . At this point the concept of the film becomes touchingly apparent . Though the cast is well known in the Philippines , only a few of the faces will be familiar to most viewers . What Mendoza is able to achieve with his cast is a feeling of honesty and ensemble work that allows both sides of Illiac's life to be credible . The film is in Tagalog with English subtitles and though the DVD cover would suggest this is a gay film , in reality it is a study of family life and the consequences of distance between father and son . It is worth viewing . Grady Harp
Nice Little Warm and Fluffy Film	It is becoming more the rule than the exception that movies made for television are the equal if not better than many of the works made for the theaters . Such is the case for this little bit of fluff of a movie - EVERYTHING YOU WANT . Based on a play by Natalie Prado and adapted successfully for the screen by Steven A . Lee and Kevin Lawrence King , this film is lightweight but carries itself with style and fun by director Ryan Little and makes for an entertaining diversion of a film that is not about the heavier issues with which most films today are dealing . Abigail Morrison ( a charming Shiri Appleby ) grew up with absentee parents and spent her idle hours drawing and creating an imaginary friend Sy ( Orlando Seale ) to care for her loneliness . Unfortunately she has carried Sy into her adult life , preventing her from dating real human beings . As an art student she paints her imaginary boyfriend who is always there for her and makes her mistrustful of real guys who are bound to desert her . . . ! Abby meets a cocky young student Quinn ( Nick Zano ) faking his interest in art to get easy college credits . There is a mutual attraction that takes some time to develop : Abby talks about her boyfriend Sy to shield her vulnerability . Abby's friend Jessica ( Alexandra Holden ) is aware of Abby's imaginary Sy and attempts to get her to date real men . But Jessica is not without her problems - maintaining employment at Borders Bookstore being one of them - and through a series of accidental encounters , Quinn steps in to help Jessica keep her job on the promise that Abby will coach him in art . The obvious happens and Quinn's growth as a person mirrors Abby's ability to fore go her need to hide behind Sy and the two become a couple . The young cast is attractive and for the most part acts well . There are some strange subplots that don't add much to the storyline but at least introduce some different offbeat characters . A deep movie this is not , but for an evening of light entertainment , this little film glimmers .
Random Acts of Kindness : A Little Christmas Story	MIDNIGHT CLEAR is an easily overlooked film : the cover of the DVD is bleak , the description of the story sounds a bit corny , and the promotion of the film has been scant . But what is not expected for those viewers able to overcome the above negative aspects is a well-made little series of interlocking vignettes that poignantly address the impact of random acts of kindness in a world grown calloused . It is touching in the best sense of the word and well worth watching even beyond the Christmas season . The unnamed town gradually opens windows to some fairly sad people : an elderly woman Eva ( K Callan ) talks with her doctor on the telephone about her meds and we note that she may be facing the thought of suicide in her desolate life ; a sweet woman Mary ( Mary Thornton ) and her young son Jacob ( Dominic Scott Kay ) visit their brain damaged husband / father in a rest home ( the man was critically injured in an auto accident one year ago ) ; a lonely many Kirk ( Kirk B . R . Woller ) stands in his isolated convenience store without patrons ; a longtime drunk and lonely ex-husband Lefty ( Stephen Baldwin ) is fired from his menial job , despite a recent promotion , because of his consistent tardiness ; Mitch ( Mitchell Jarvis ) works with kids for a church to assuage his guilt for having survived the auto accident that devastated Mar's husband's life , reluctantly agreeing to his pastor ( Richard Fancy ) to take his youth group caroling to the shut-ins on Christmas Eve . Each of these characters influences the others by a seeming random act of kindness : Kirk helps Mary and Jacob with their broken car , Eva is given a meals on wheels by a church lady ( Victoria Jackson ) , Mitch and his carolers provide some needed money by means of a token gift that will allow Lefty and Eva to attend Christmas Eve Service , and Eva's ' meals on wheels ' ends up providing midnight food for Kirk and Mary and Jacob . Writer Wes Halula and director Dallas Jenkins carve a story that , though at times suggests it may become cloying , is genuinely touching . The cast , especially Baldwin and Callan , is excellent , and each of the characters is well developed , leaving the viewer with a sense of a morality tale we sorely need . Instead of a big booming Hollywood finish , the film simply tapers off with suggestions of the importance of selfless acts that can make a difference . It is well worth watching , especially now , and especially during the Christmas season . Grady Harp
Fall Out from the Hippie Era	A SIMPLE CURVE is a little Canadian film courtesy of Film Movement that has a nice style and solid cast to relate what happened to the men and women who fled to Canada to avoid the draft for the Vietnam War . Since the Baby Boomer Generation now makes up a large part of the audience this story will resonate with both parents and children . ' A simple curve ' may refer to the woodworking genius of the main characters , but is also refers to the results of happenstance from a period of free love resulting in some questions about biological parenting , throwing a simple curve into the philosophy of family . Caleb ( Kris Lemche ) lives in the extraordinarily beautiful mountainous wilds of British Columbia with his father Jim ( Michael Hogan ) , barely surviving on the meager income of their woodworking shop . The mother / wife died some time ago from a protracted illness and that event has both bonded the father / son and created a festering pain they must face daily . Into their lives returns an old friend of Jim's from the hippie days of expatriation : Matthew ( Matt Craven ) returns from the US as a man of means by way of ecotourism and plans to build a lodge on the lake near Jim and Caleb . Tension exists between Jim and Matthew , but Caleb sees Matthew as a financial savior of his business as Matthew consents to have Caleb and Jim ( unbeknownst to Jim ) make furniture prototypes for the lodge . Caleb appears wedded to his hometown , dating only women who live there and traveling little - a factor that encourages many people to advise Caleb to make the break from his family and seek his own identity . A current hippie couple - Erika ( Sarah Lind ) and Buck ( Kett Turton ) - find their way into Jim's graces and live on the property , a re-creation in many ways of Jim's and Matthew's past . The peak of change in the story occurs when Matthew loses funding for the lodge ( and thus the monetary security of Jim and Caleb's business ) and that tension reveals another secret curve : both Jim and Matthew sexually shared Caleb's mother and his true biological father is left in question . Caleb is devastated and witnesses another curve : he has performed a similar act with Erika resulting in a pregnancy that could be the progeny of either Caleb or Buck . Matthew once again leaves the beauty of Canada for the security of the US and Jim and Caleb are left to sort things out , finding new lives of their own with some surprising circumstances . Aubrey Nealon wrote and directed this little film and on most levels it is successful . The cast is solid but the star of the film is the majestic beauty of British Columbia - and that seems to be intended . This is not a great movie but it is a worthy exploration into the fallout of the Hippie Generation . For many of us it simply clicks ! Grady Harp
A Microscopic Examination of Urban Life and the Writer's Mind	THE TENANTS began as a 1971 short novel by the now deceased Bernard Malamud - writer / philosopher - examining the conflicts between Jews and African Americans in the incendiary atmosphere of Brooklyn at the time the book was written . As a novel the story was gut wrenchingly real : as transcribed into a screenplay by novices David Diamond and Danny Green ( who also directs ) it is more of a cerebral dissertation that gradually erupts into action in the final moments . Harry Lesser ( Dylan McDermott ) is a Jewish novelist with one book under his belt but currently attempting to finish his ' newest ' book ten years into the writing . Convinced that he must complete the novel in the same environment where it was started . he is the sole tenant in a condemned Brooklyn tenement owned by Levinspiel ( Seymour Cassel ) who constantly tries to ' buy out ' Harry's lease so that the filthy dilapidated building can be demolished . Into this atmosphere enters another Black militant quasi-anti-Semitic writer Willie Spearmint ( Snoop Dogg ) whom Harry befriends , hides , and offers help to the nascent novelist's attempt to write about the death of all white people . Harry's attempts to help Willie lead to conflict , not the least of which is Harry's meeting Willie's girlfriend , the white Jewish Irene Bell ( Rose Byrne ) at a less than friendly gathering of Willie's militant black brothers and sisters . Willie and Irene are on the skids and Harry gradually falls in love with Irene and they plan to leave New York as soon as Harry finishes his novel . When Willie hears of the assignation and is further critiqued by Harry , Willie explodes and begins the downward descent of not only a delicate friendship but also a competition between writers . The ending ' reveals the slippery nature of the human condition , and the human capacity for violence and undoing ' . The actors do their best with a script that is a bit awkward but despite scripted lines that border on preaching they create believable characters . The cinematography enhances the story , keeping the mood dank and dense and primarily confined to the condemned building . The musical score appropriately makes use of the solo jazz trumpet and blues piano to underline the tension and isolation of each of these groundless characters . Though it takes some patience to make it through the cerebral ramblings , the film in the end is worth watching . At least it attempts to recreate Malamud's bizarre look at life in the big city . Grady Harp
Apples and Oranges	Paul Reiser steps away from the standup comedy spotlight to write a warmly humorous and gently tender story about family - what we see and what we don't see , what we expect and what surprises us . THE THING ABOUT MY FOLKS doesn't set any new standards for film , but it is a fine little story well told that reminds us about the significant bonds that family represents . Sam Kleinman ( Peter Falk ) has been a workaholic , at times pushing his wife Muriel ( Olympia Dukakis ) , his daughters ( Mackenzie Connolly and Lydia Jordan ) , and his son Ben ( Paul Reiser ) into the background . One day Muriel leaves a note that after years of marriage she is leaving ! Her daughters , along with Ben's wife Rachel ( Elizabeth Perkins ) immediately begin the search for her whereabouts , leaving the confused and hurt and disgruntle Sam to sort things out on a road trip with son Ben . The road trip becomes a time for the two men to learn who each other is and what they each mean to their status as father and son and as family members . Sam relaxes for the first time in his life and introduces the now workaholic Ben to the pleasures and fun of living . The trip comes to an end with a phone call about the whereabouts of Muriel and why she left and the regrouping of the wiser family draws the story's warm ending . All is not what it seemed : it's better and , well , different . Falk and Reiser play off each other like the pros they are , but in many ways the film belongs to the brief moments when Olympia Dukakis is on screen , reminding us that she is one of our strongest matriarchs on film . Well worth viewing . Grady Harp
Visual Splendor for a Shuffled Plot and Script	Kar Wai Wong is as much a visual artist as a film director and his forté has always been making beautiful , multileveled images on a screen that is trying to see clearly the outlines of character development . Such is the case in his first English language film MY BLUEBERRY NIGHTS , a creation he wrote ( with Lawrence Block ) as well as directed . While the ' story ' boasts a cast of fine actors , the emphasis seems less on character delineation than on creating a cinematic stream of consciousness . A New York Russian bakery / café is operated by immigrant Jeremy ( Jude Law ) and into this milieu comes the newly jilted Elizabeth ( Norah Jones - who also provides much of he sound track singing for the film ) . She leaves her boyfriend's keys with Jeremy as a sign of resignation but continues to nightly check to see if her ex-boyfriend has shown up to claim them . This is the premise for the formation of a bond between Jeremy and Elizabeth , but without solidifying that bond , Elizabeth runs off to greener pastures . She settles in Tennessee where she finds work as both a waitress and a bar maid and meets the down and out alcoholic policeman Arlo ( David Strathairn ) who pines away for his tacky , gallivanting wife Sue Lynne ( Rachel Weisz ) . Leaving that story piece unresolved , Elizabeth then moves to Las Vegas where she becomes friends with a young , loser gambler Leslie ( Natalie Portman ) who manages to waste Elizabeth's savings for a car on yet another misjudged gambling night . Through this cavalcade of losers Elizabeth continues to write postcards to Jeremy and the ending is blatantly predictable . There are some moments of memorable dialog : ' Sometimes , even if you have the keys those doors still can't be opened . Can they ? ' ' Even if the door is open , the person you're looking for may not be there ' . But for the most part this is a visual feast for those who love Kar Wai Wong's genre . The plot is thin as is the dialogue and the actors work to make the most of the outlines of conversation that they embellish with their own spontaneous words . If it feels improvised to the viewer then the viewer has entered the realm of Kar Wai Wong . This is a film for art film lovers - it is very beautiful to watch ! Grady Harp
Witch Hunting in the 21st Century : Hunky Molochs !	THE COVENANT is not a great film by any definition but it is worth seeing for the cast of characters doomed to portray the rather shoddy script : the live Abercrombie & Fitch appearing models make up for allure in screen presence what they may lack in a solid story . In the 1600s , during the witch trials , there were five families who secretly survived , holding ' The Power ' , to send their descendants into the future . It is now present time and four of the families are represented by young hunks , the Ipswich Guys , who are attending a private school in autumnal Massachusetts , careful to keep their Power hidden for the most part : the Power is the ability to do fantastic feats of force and sorcery which , if it is used to much carries the punishment of aging the body quickly . . . The four lads are Caleb ( 20-year old stud model Steven Strait ) , Pogue ( sculpted body man Taylor Kitsch ) , Tyler ( Chace Crawford ) , and Reid ( Toby Hemingway ) and aside from Caleb and Pogue the other two are pretty much set decoration , so minimal are their lines and involvement . Into this setting comes one Chase Collins ( Sebastian Stan , a handsome lad from ' The Architect ' ) who just happens to be the surviving member of the fifth family and who is greedy for Power beyond his own abilities . A series of confrontations results in Caleb facing Chase in a showdown , but not before the girls involved with the good guys - Caleb's girlfriend Sarah ( Laura Ramsey ) and Pogue's girlfriend Kate ( Jessica Lucas ) , equally as beautiful as their partners are handsome - critically enter the picture . There is , of course , a showdown in an old ancestral barn during the requisite thunder and lightning storm background which serves as a stage for the silly computer generated graphics that throw Caleb and Chase around with jellyfish balls and the like . The ending makes it very clear that a sequel ( probably more than one ) is planned and if that means more exposure for this attractive young cast of actors , bring it on . Director Renny Harlin and writer J . S . Cardone know they have a kitschy formula movie and seem to have a great time making it as fun and creepy as possible - good music , great lighting and camera work , and a penchant for locker room shower scenes that guarantee success with the intended audience . THE COVENANT is often silly but it is a good escapist movie and may just be the springboard for some new faces ! Grady Harp
A Rather Surprisingly Good Biography of an Icon	Not being a golfer or a fan of biographies of sportsmen , this viewer found a surprising amount of satisfaction in this recreation of the life of Bobby Jones , whose fame in the game of golf is legendary . So the question arises : " How can a film about golf maintain such a viewer's attention and appreciation ? " The answer lies in the physical production of this beautiful little film . Capturing the essence of the world in the 1920s and 1930s not only in costuming and manners and atmosphere but in sociologic and philosophic vantages , Director Rowdy Herrington has ably explored the life and times of the reluctant hero in a way that exhumes a period in history when everyone needed something to believe in . Actors Jim Caviezel , Malcolm McDowell , Jeremy Northam , and Claire Forlani not only look their parts : their demeanor before the camera absorbs the state of mind of America lapsing from the riotous 20s to the massive depression of the 30s . Bobby Jones physical problems , both self induced and genetic , are explored with just enough veracity to make him more of a well-rounded character than a cardboard saint ( we don't learn the name of his neurological disorder - syringomyelia - until the final credits ) . His struggle against seemingly insurmountable odds to move through every golfing challenge of his day and succeed beyond the realm of possibility is well captured in Caviezel's delicately nuanced performance . Not a great movie , but certainly worth more attention than it received in the theaters . You don't need to be a golfer to appreciate the beauty of this little moment of nostalgia . Grady Harp
The nonpareil of free association film making	Claire Denis has demonstrated repeatedly that film does not need to tell a story , that it is sufficient to create an experience that allows the viewer to take the ingredients and make of them what they will . Ostensibly the idea within the framework of a most non-linear film is the older man living on the French-Swiss border , a man devoted to his dogs , who still has a lover , but whose cardiac status increasingly threatens his life . He has a son with a little family who infrequently meet with him , but when he discovers he is in need of a heart transplant he opts for going to Tahiti via Japan to obtain a heart transplant on the black market and to rekindle a long lost relationship with a son he had form a Tahitian women years ago . What Denis does with this outline of a story is use her camera to explore the loneliness of the soul , the vastness of nature , man's interaction with people vs animals , etc . Much of the time the ' film ' doesn't make sense , but that is because we try too hard to connect all the dots laid out before us in beautiful pictures . Life is sort of like that : we look , see , observe , integrate , process , and make of it what we will . In using this form of film making ( much as she did in the strangely beautiful ' Beau Travail ' ) Claire Denis has developed a signature technique . Whether or not the viewer finds the finished product rewarding has much to do with our individual methods of processing visual and conceptual information . This is an interesting and visually captivating film , but many viewers will find it an overly long discourse about very little . Perhaps watching again will change that . Grady Harp
Roselyn Sanchez Lights Up the Screen !	Roselyn Sanchez Lights Up the Screen ! , August 3 , 2007 By Grady Harp ( Los Angeles , CA United States ) - See all my reviews ( TOP 10 REVIEWER ) ( REAL NAME ) YELLOW may be fairly easy to dismiss as a soap opera story of little girl makes good despite a troubling journey , but the presence of Roselyn Sanchez is reason enough to see this little art film , She has what it takes to make a film magic , she acts well , dances well , and creates a credible persona from a rather superficial script . Based on a story by Nacoma Whobrey about the gifted daughter of a once famous male ballet dancer who leaves her native Puerto Rico in the grief of her father / tutor's death to find a better life in New York - the city where her father found fame . Amaryllis Campos ( Roselyn Sanchez ) worshiped her famous father ( Jaime Tirelli ) , learned ballet under his tutelage , then grew up in a home after her father's leg crushing accident , with a mother ( Erika Michels ) and a live-in druggie boyfriend Angelo ( Manny Perez ) , supporting her helpless family by delivering pizzas . When her life falls apart one person befriends her - Hilde ( Nancy Millan ) - and provides her money to move to New York and a cousin with whom to live . Once in new York Amaryllis finds the cousin's apartment occupied by a sweet old poet Miles Emory ( Bill Duke ) who allows her to stay . Finding work proves difficult until she signs on as a pole dancer in a sleazy nightclub . There she meets an emotionally bruised physician ( D . B . Sweeney ) who befriends her and who with the help of her new found friends finally makes her way back to the legitimate stage . Yes , the story has been done before , but it is the pacing of director Alfredo De Villa that keeps the film pulsatile , and the shimmering screen presence of Roselyn Sanchez that makes this little film worth watching . Story 5 , Performance by Sanchez 10 . In Spanish and English with subtitles . The additional features on the DVD are even more interesting than the script ! Grady Harp
Starts and Stops : A Movie Trying to Find A Story	' Dieu est grand , je suis toute petite ' is a little film by Pascale Bailly that spends a lot of time trying to tell a story in bits and pieces with numerous characters , interesting in and of themselves but confusing to the viewer , attempting to keep up with the breakneck speed of this French comedy . The saving grace is the presence of Audrey Tautou and a few other actors whose screen magnetism holds our interest . Fresh from a breakup with a boyfriend Bertand ( Mathieu Demy ) top model Michèle ( Tautou ) is a wreck of a person flirting with all manner of religious outlets ( Hindu , Buddhism , Catholicism , etc ) trying to find something to make her crazy life make sense . She encounters a veterinarian François ( Edouard Baer ) who is a secular Jew ( non-practicing , closeted , etc ) and not only does she fall immediately into bed with him ( and a next morning attempted suicide ! ) she begins to stalk him trying to embrace Judaism - a fact that at first drives François away and then a little mad himself . The manner in which Michèle and François study Judaism and all its graces and restrictions is ( I think ) the basis for the rest of the story : the filming technique of flashbacks and fragmentary moments and cutesy scribblings on pages are paced to confuse and make this simple story a maze to follow ! Along the way we meet some interesting types including Valérie ( Julie Depardieu ) who opens her door to her first psychology patient ( Thierry Neuvic ) and promptly falls in love with him ; Ali ( Atmen Kelif ) who is Michèle's nutty fashion photographer and a number of others . There are funny moments , touching moments , absurd moments , but they are loosely strung together . In the end this is a fun film in which it is a bit trying to connect all the dots ! In French , English , and Hebrew with subtitles . Grady Harp
Finding Self Through Flashbacks and Fragments	' Comme un frère ' ( Like a Brother ) is a brief film by writers and directors Bernard Alapetite and Cyril Legann that succinctly examines the development of identity of a young lad over a period of less than a year . The technique of telling the story of the coming of sexual age of a boy is one that may confuse some viewers - the present is combined with the past in a patchwork manner , the only key that the past is the subject is the use of near monochrome film color that successfully suggests the blur that past events now faded affect the senses - becomes one of the more unique aspects of this little French film . The story opens in Paris where young Sébastien / AKA Zack ( Benoît Delière ) sits in a café with his current boyfriend Bruno ( Johnny Amaro ) and lets it be known that it is his birthday . Bruno's questioning as to why Sébastien is not in a celebratory mood begins flashbacks of a year ago when Sébastien lived in the small coastal town of La Baule where he doted on his best friend Romain ( Thibault Boucaux ) . Despite Romain's devotion and physical closeness to Sébastien , Romain is in love with Sophie ( Amandine Maugy ) whose best friend Marine ( Adeline Ishiomin ) is trying to attract the love interest of Sébastien . The four are close , but something is missing : Sébastien loves Romain and while the two have some beautifully tender moments together , Romain is not the gay boy Sébastien needs . Sébastien leaves his provincial town for Paris , connects with his father ( Michel Derville ) and confides his true identity as a gay young man . His father is warmly supportive and suggests Sébastien move in with him . Sébastien ( now called ' Zack ' ) begins to visit clubs and eventually is absorbed into the gay life , yet he still dreams of Romain . After months pass and Zack is in a comfortable relationship ( Patrick Esilva ) , Romain comes to Paris and the two now young men meet in a park - but where will this new reunion lead ? The actors are for the most part very fine - especially Thibault Boucaux and Adeline Ishiomin - and the sensual aspects of the story are well captured with restraint . With a running time of only 55 minutes the story flies past the eyes much in the way memories bounce in the psyche and it is this manner that makes the story fresh . There should be more to come from the creators and certainly from some of the fine new actors in this film . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Star is the Sea	Some of the most compelling moments in this otherwise dated rehash of the troubled aging chance-taker in a military unit taking on the similar inner demons of a young recruit are the frames that depict the raging sea in middle of storms . The photography and superimposed action shots of rescues in the midst of nature's havoc are stunning to watch . The movie itself is well made by director Andrew Davis ( Collateral Damage , The Fugitive , Under Siege , etc ) and the actors selected to portray the one-dimensional roles as written by Ron L . Brinkerhoff carry the movie along . The problem , if it is one for the viewer , is that this story has been told so many times for every branch of the service industries ( Navy , Marines , Army , Firefighters , Policemen ) and now adds the US Coast Guard to the mix . The synopsis in a capsule is old tortured USCG rescue swimmer ( Kevin Kostner ) is a dedicated man who puts his job before his wife ( Sela Ward ) and loses his rescue swimmer's team in a disaster , placing him in nightmare torn state that the USCG recognizes and sends him off to be an instructor for the USCG where he encounters a brilliant young athlete recruit ( Ashton Kutcher ) with his own similar demons and the two work things out to the betterment of both . It is not a bad story , just a tired one . But as a movie it carries fairly well thanks to the scenes with the Sea - beautifully captured by cinematographer Stephen St . John with a lot of help from special effects chief Scott Fisher and visual effects chief Erika Abrams . Costner and Kutcher manage their assignments well as does the rest of the crew . This is a good diversionary movie - just no surprises to make it unique . Grady Harp
The Pleasures of Film Noir	For those who share a delight in the very French film noir genre , TRIVIAL ( La Disparue de Deauville ) is sure to please . To attempt to outline the plot of this beautifully photographed and acted film would be to deny the viewer the pleasure of unraveling the mysteries that make up this at times obtuse story . But that is the pleasure of these films - just when you think you know what is happening , along comes an artsy twist that throws you for a loop . Suffice it to say that the characters who grace the stage include a badly emotionally fractured policeman Jacques ( Christophe Lambert ) who in attempting to recuperate from the loss of his wife encounters a mysterious woman who seems to be the reincarnation of an actress who died in an automobile accident 36 years ago . Jacques must wrestle with reality to answer his duty to investigate a death of the owner of the glamorous Hotel Riviera - an investigation that introduces him to the wheelchair-ridden wife , her son , and clues as to the clandestine affair the owner had been having . The woman of mystery appears in strange moments : is she real or an illusion ? In the end the secrets of the strange hotel owner family background and the cases of missing persons all come to rest in a seductive caper : we should have seen it coming but that is the delight of film noir . The very beautiful and talented Sophie Marceau had the idea for the story ( she plays the dual roles of the deceased actress phantom and the love interest ) , wrote the screenplay ( with Gianguido Spinelli , Jacques Deschamps , and Rania Meziani ) , and directs the film with the flow of an Alain Renais work . The supporting cast is likewise excellent and the entire production has that rare mystery of French glow . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
All the Right Ingredients but he Cake Didn't Rise	FRACTURE seemed from the trailer and the ads as though this was a surefire hit , a mystery thriller populated with a strong cast and directed by Gregory Hoblit ( Hart's War , Frequency , Fallen , Primal Fear ) who knows his way around tense drama . But despite this the movie suffers from a script that fails to keep that secret that would make the story work : most viewers will be able to figure out the ' mystery ' far before its discovery poses the end of the film . Ted Crawford ( Anthony Hopkins ) is an older wealthy man married for a year to a younger beauty ( Embeth Davidtz ) and happens to spy on her with her current paramour , detective Rob Nunally ( Billy Burke ) , confronts her at home and shoots her in the face with the intention of killing her . But of course she is not dead : she is in a vegetative state in a hospital ICU by the next frame . Meanwhile a young lawyer Willy Beachum ( Ryan Gosling ) while working for the District Attorney office with Joe Labruto ( David Strathairn ) sniffs that all is not right with the case while at the same time vying his career choices with transferring to a law firm under the eye of Nikki Gardner ( Rosamund Pike ) . Willy is assigned to prosecute Crawford , but Crawford , defending himself , is acquitted because the murder weapon ( gun ) cannot be produced . THAT is the mystery : what happened to the needed evidence ? The remainder of the story is how Willy solves the case and while most people will have figured it out , revealing it in a review robs potential viewers from the cat and mouse game the film is supposed to be . Both Hopkins and Gosling are superb , even with a script that is weak , and simply watching them perform is reason enough to see the film . The sets and filming are also fascinating and the pacing of the movie is satisfyingly tense . With a bit more imagination the story could have worked better . The ' stars rating ' is for the Stars ! Grady Harp
The Subtleties of Building Atmosphere	FLIGHTPLAN as directed by Robert Schwentke from a screenplay by writers Peter A . Dowling and Billy Ray is excellent on creating tension from the first frames of the film well into the uni-set stage of an impossibly huge airplane . Little things like scenes of isolation , snow , ice , coffins - all set the viewer up for a thriller . Atmosphere 5 , story 3 . The plot is so well known from other reviews that it merits no re-hash here . But the ' driven mother ' against the free-floating anxiety of air travel and espionage in the post-911 is what keeps this film airborne . If the viewer can appreciate the possibilities of how even a scientific mind like that of aeronautics engineer Kyle ( Jodie Foster ) can splinter in the days following the death of her husband coupled with the added emotional burden of helping her child understand death , coffins , terror etc then the story will be gripping . The performances are fine - especially Foster in yet another superfemale role , but also Peter Sarsgaard , Sean Bean , and the supporting cast and crew of the beleaguered icy airplane . At some point , however , the atmosphere must support a solid , intelligent story , one that is without holes in credibility , if it is to rate high on the Terror / Thriller / Suspense factor . The cinematography and musical score both support the director's vision . FLIGHTPLAN tries very hard but ends up feeling like a sellout somewhere along the line . Grady Harp
The Mystery : Finding the Multiple Stories and Making Them Relate	THE RIVER KING is a high profile film that went directly to DVD without the benefit of a theater run . It is anyone's guess why a film of this quality should not make it commercially while there are so many less well-made movies that linger on the screens for weeks or months . The film is well acted , well directed , beautifully photographed and well scored . The possible reason for its lack of attention may have been due to some test screenings where the audience was asked to evaluate . Despite all of the fine points of the film the problem lies in the screen adaptation by David Kane of the haunting novel by Alice Hoffman . Too many loose ends do not a story make and in the final analysis it is difficult to converse with someone who has not seen the film just what it is about . Ostensibly , THE RIVER KING is about a private prep school out in the snowy fields of somewhere , a place where secret societies still haze , faculty are still under the control of the school's funders , and appearances are far more important than truths . Abel ( Edward Burns ) is called in to investigate the found drowned body of a student , and with his partner ( John Kapelos ) the two detectives suspect foul play - suicide , murder , hazing . Their investigation includes questioning the victim's only friend Carlin ( Rachelle Lefevre ) and one photography and English Lit teacher Betsy ( Jennifer Ehle ) . But as the investigation proceeds , Abel has flashbacks to his childhood memories of his own older brother's suicide , dark secrets that have haunted him , and it is this psychic matrix which serves as the canvas for him to resolve the case as well as to relate to the various characters within the confines of the prep school . Many of the questions raised by the narrative remain unanswered by this frustrating script , but the actors bring as much involvement and credibility as they are able to create a film of mystery and self-realization in the snow and ice of the fields around the school . For those who wish more , reading Hoffman's novel will be more satisfying . Grady Harp
Stepping Back Into the 1950s : An Imitation Film Noir	LONELY HEARTS tries very hard to evoke the feeling of the 1950s and the troubled police officer whose wife's suicide haunts him until he finds revenge in the investigation of a pair of lonely hearts scam artists . But what happens for the most part is a story that looks , sounds and fells like a 1950s crime movie - 3 parts celluloid transfer , 1 part story . John Travolta and James Gandolfini play buddy homicide detectives who overcome the ennui of their job when they begin to investigate the multiple murders of ' lonely women ' who fall prey to snappy con artist men . The pair they are chasing are Ray Fernandez ( Jared Leto ) and his partner in crime Martha Beck ( Salma Hayek ) , a diabolical couple who find their victims through the personal ads and then fleece then murder them victims in heinous ways . Todd Robinson wrote and directed the film based on his grandfather's experience - Elmer C . Robinson ( Travolta ) - and it is this bit of personal touch that makes the sluggish story work . The capable supporting cast includes such solid actors as Laura Dern and Scott Cain with fine cameos by Alice Krige and Dagmara Dominczyk , playing victims . Hayek and Leto muster a chemistry on the screen that , while strange in type , allows the viewer to understand the motivation of the crimes . It is a solid cast and a good story : it just seems more derivative of old movies than a film with original thought . Grady Harp
Turning Spaghetti Westerns into Ebullient Farce !	BANDIDAS may not set new standards for film-making , whether those standards are for westerns , comedies , action flicks , or slapstick , but it is just as awful lot of fun to watch ! The script by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen is pretty shallow and at times borders on maudlin , but it is also peppered with some little one-liners that allow the stars to show off their comedic talents . Directors Joachim Roenning and Espen Sandberg are neophytes and wisely allow the star qualities of Salma Hayek and Penélope Cruz to reign and have a good time both as opposites ( Hayak comes from money and education and Cruz comes from the farm ) and as partners is bank robbing - done of course in the Robin Hood manner . The bad guy is the reliable Dwight Yoakim and the fall guy is the always lively Steve Zahn . The quasi-good guy who trains the divas to be robbers is portrayed by Sam Shepard . And that is about all the viewer needs to know to realize the movie is in good hands . No , the story isn't particularly ' find themselves - dividing their concentration between settling evil vendettas and vying for best kisser role with Steve Zahn . This is a comedy , folks , and a good lighthearted outing for two of our best actresses . Worth an evening's viewing ! Grady Harp
The Struggle to Restore Self Worth	ON A CLEAR DAY is a wee Scottish film that is full to overflowing with heart and fine performances . Writer Alex Rose and Director Gaby Dellal have managed to explore the psyches of the ordinary folk who face the crises of unemployment , of strained family relations and the fear of loss of pride in one's self and have created not only a sympathetic story with a message , but have also delivered their story with humor and a glint of the eye that makes the whole thing work - very well indeed . Frank ( Peter Mullen ) watches as the last ship he will ever have worked on is launched as his wife Joan ( Brenda Blethyn ) and his son Rob ( Jamie Sives ) , daughter in law Angela ( Johdi May ) , and grandson twins celebrate the launching . We soon learn that Frank is now jobless , that there is friction with his son Rob ( who had been a twin but the other twin died at age 7 ) who doesn't have a traditional job but instead is a stay at home Dad . Money is tight and Joan secretly is training to be a bus driver . Franks cronies Eddie ( Sean McGinley ) , Danny ( Billy Boyd ) , and Norman ( Ron Cook ) see Frank slipping into depression . Frank spends his time swimming at the public swimming pool and while there he sees three young physically challenged boys trying and by will power succeeding to swim . Frank decides he needs to prove himself to his friends , family and himself and decides to swim the English Channel . He enlists his buddy Chan ( Benedict Wong ) and eventually his cronies and they prepare for the challenging swim . The manner in which this drive influences his marriage , his relationship with his son and his perception of himself is the driver for the very tender ending . The cast is first class all the way , acting with that inimitable UK fashion of finding reality in the simplest of characters . The story is a joy to watch for its understated manner and for the glowing theme of the film . Recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp , July 06
A Smart Little Film That Gets Caught Up In Its Own Mess Of A Story	ART SCHOOL CONFIDENTIAL is yet another comic book comes to celluloid life , this time by writer Daniel Clowes , and in the process creates more subplots than it can comfortably handle . The main premise - that art schools are peopled by assorted types of students all with the goal of becoming a great artist and the manner in which attrition occurs - is a solid one and an entertaining tale to tell . Cluttering that main line of story with a silly stalking strangler idea is just plain dumb and accomplishes little except giving an easy out for a finish . Jerome Platz ( Max Minghella ) is a talented drawing and painting major who enters the hallowed walls of a respected art school and is stuck with rooming with a film maker Vince ( Ethan Suplee ) , a closeted fashion designer , and nebulous Bardo ( Joel Moore ) and immediately plugs into the array of misfits that fill the classes including hunky Jonah ( Matt Kesslar ) who garners attention for his Pop art cars from art teacher cum failed artist Professor Sandiford ( John Malkovich ) . Jerome's main attraction for the school and the class is his infatuation with life model Audrey ( Sophia Myles ) who in turn is more attracted to Jonah . Student questions and life challenges are stepped along by Jerome's contacts with teacher Anjelica Huston , oddball alcoholic recluse artist Jim Broadbent , café / art-house owner Steve Buscemi , gallerist Michael Lerner , established shallow artist Marvin Bushmiller ( Adam Scott ) , etc . Jerome eventually plagiarizes / steals paintings in hopes of gaining not only some fame in class but also the attention of Audrey . That little incident unplugs disaster and the film closes with Jerome happily ensconced in jail - grinding out paintings now publicly desired because of his living situation ! Sound silly ? Well , for the most part it is , but fortunately there are entertaining characters played by some fine actors that maintain our attention . A funky musical score by David Kitay borrows heavily from the Big Names in classical music whenever the love interest is aroused and for lovers of classical music the quotations are hilarious . Not a bad evening's entertainment - but very much in need of script doctoring to edit out the strangler bit . Grady Harp
An Intrigue Drama from Life	HUNT FOR JUSTICE is a Canadian television drama that has made it to DVD and that is reason for gratitude for those who hunger for educational dramas that inform us about facts of current history that somehow get buried in the media . The film is not a Hollywood production , it relies heavily on footage from court files , but it also introduces to many of us the act of heroism of Louise Arbour in bringing about the trial of Yugoslavian President Slobodan Milosevic . Louise Arbour ( veteran Canadian actor Wendy Crewson ) is a Canadian judge appointed by NATO as the Chief War Crimes Prosecutor at the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague . The film begins in 1996 when Arbour travels to The Hague to face the political obstacles that are preventing the Tribunal to bringing to justice the war criminals in the war Yugoslavia has been waging in Serbia , Croatia , and Bosnia , a war that has gross evidence of crimes against humanity in the form of genocide , extermination camps , and other heinous abuses . The progress toward bringing the criminals to justice is hampered by generals ( including one played by William Hurt ) who fear a major World War if precautions against same are infringed upon . Arbour , with the keen help of her translator Pasko Odsak ( Stipe Erceg ) , her staff including Keller ( Heino Ferch ) and the unexpected assistance from British Capt . John Tanner ( John Corbett ) , forges ahead , focusing the impossible task of bringing all responsible parties to justice on three specific events . Two of the three top suspects are captured but during their trials each meets his end . This leaves only Slobodan Milosevic himself , and Arbour and her colleagues are successful in bringing the war criminal to justice in 1999 . There are several touching side plots employed in the telling of this well-documented tale , stories that make the point in history more personal . Some may find the film footage of corpses and prisoners and death camps too strong to watch , but they are necessary to bring home the purpose of the film . Wendy Crewson carries the power to drive the message home - the message that war crimes must never go unpunished . There is much current history to be learned from this film : writers Ian Adams , Riley Adams and M . A . Lovretta have condensed the information and made it dramatic as well . Director Charles Binamé balances the docudrama with the story progress , never forgetting that he has a tale of intrigue to tell as well . HUNT FOR JUSTICE is worth watching ! Grady Harp
A Sector the Kinsey Report Missed : The World of Genet and Gide	' La Chatte à deux têtes ' ( PORN THEATER ) is a somber study of a sector of life few know , an aspect of human sexuality that didn't make it into the Kinsey Report , a part of the underbelly of city life most would rather not accept existed . Does that mean it should not be examined , should not provide the impetus for an art film ? Writer / director and actor Jacques Nolot thinks otherwise . In this dark little film we are invited into the inner sanctum of a dirty old movie house in Paris that shows only straight pornography for a clientele of men of various types : military men , straight men look for gay sex , married men in need of exploration of their senses , transvestites , old men for whom such places provide the only sexual outlet , and the regulars who spend their evenings in the dingy darkened atmosphere for anonymous sex . The theater is a theater of life for these people , and the ' stage manager ' is the sole female Italian ticket cashier ( Vittoria Scognamiglio ) who has seen every aspect of sexuality , embraced it , and therefore is wholly non-judgmental . She converses with her straight projectionist ( Sébastien Viala ) who is attracted to her on several levels , and with one of her regulars ( Jacques Nolot ) , a man of fifty who is living with AIDS in a responsible way , but finds his only sexual outlet to be this theater scene . During the course of the film the cashier manages to discuss her open views of sexuality with these two men and the three of them seem headed for a communal experience . This open view of human behavior is set with the background of the various acts within the theater . We watch transsexuals ply their wares , group encounters in bathrooms , and various odd approaches and rejections for gratification that in the end represent a group of men who find connection to each other as human beings far more difficult ( ? impossible ? ) than quick satisfaction in the dark . There is considerable frank acting out of encounters that are usually not seen on film and that may be more than the regular viewer can tolerate . But at least one director has the courage of Genet and Gide and Burroughs et al to tackle this subject matter in a wholly realistic way . The result is a film of social significance , even though it may not be for everyone . It is an art film , very well made , with a brave cast and an even braver writer and director . To not see it is to miss some important messages about human sexuality and about human needs too frequently dismissed as non-existent . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Coming Out Is So Very Hard To Do	' No Se Lo Digas A Nadie ' ( ' Don't Tell Anyone ' ) is probably a good PR line for this little film trying to be something grand . In excess of two hours director Francisco J . Lombardi makes an attempt to bring to life the autobiography of gay Peruvian talk show host Jaime Bayly and to explore the angst of teenagers and college students finding their way into the adult world . What results is a soap opera treatment that wades around in a lot of self-pity and wrong choices . Joaquin Camino ( Santiago Magill ) struggles as a child with his terrible secret of attraction to boys in a home atmosphere of a macho homophobic father and a religious zealot mother . He tries girls , even a graduation gift prostitute compliments of his father , but he is unable to ' be a man ' and after high school runs away from home . In college he mixes with the marijuana and cocaine crowd , unsuccessfully attempts physical affection for his girlfriend Alejandra ( Lucía Jiménez ) but eventually falls in love with a closet case to end all closet cases Gonzalo ( Christian Meier ) who runs when Joaquin makes it clear he is available for a relationship . This is the manner of the tale which eventually resolves in demonstrating how many young people hide their true identities behind alcohol and drugs and the fast life : the story as expected has no real ending because of the lack of ultimate character definition . The cast is fairly strong , especially Santiago Magill , and they try to make the best of a thin script . Production values fit the mood of the film and there are some fine little moments that justify watching it . In the long run the movie seems to be afraid to offend anyone and that fear keeps it from being bold enough to make a clear statement about human sexuality . Perhaps this is because the film is from a Latin American culture ( Peru ) , but basically it is a lost opportunity . Grady Harp
The Numb Life of Sleepwalking	New director William Maher and writer Zac Stanford previously worked together in THE CHUMSCRUBBER and the similarity of vision is apparent in SLEEPWALKING : both films deal with the empty shells of hollow people aimlessly seeking connection in a world that has become foreign territory . It is a dark , cold , brooding film that somehow manages to maintain our attention with the hope that the gloomy tunnel though which the characters are passing will have a semblance of light at the end . Joleen ( Charlize Theron ) is the inadequate , loving-but-inconstant mother of twelve-year-old Tara ( AnnaSophia Robb ) whose reckless an aimless life leads to constant moving and lack of roots . Evicted form her latest residence Joleen and Tara move in with Joleen's younger brother James ( Nick Stahl ) whose similarly aimless life is defined by a trashy apartment and a mindless construction work job . Tara is sullen , disappointed in her mother's erratic , irresponsible behavior , and when Joleen once again takes off ' on a new idea ' , Tara is left with James - trying to figure out an existence for survival . James loses his job due to absenteeism , takes up residence in the filthy basement of his nerdy co-worker Randall ( Woody Harelson ) , while the town cop ( Mathew St . Patrick ) reluctantly places Tara in a foster home to await the return of Joleen . Tara prefers life with James to her ' imprisonment ' and the two take off on a road trip , seeking some degree of happiness and love in a world gone berserk . When James runs out of money , he heads to his old home farm for refuge , an unlikely endpoint as his and Joleen's childhood was warped by their abusive farmer father ( Dennis Hopper ) . The return to the farm , James hopes , will provide connection to Tara's past , but instead it results in a tragedy that ultimately moves Tara back to her ' home ' and to Joleen , while James drives off into the unknown future , finally awakened from his sleepwalking through life . The film is as bleak as the flat and snowy countryside ( the film was shot in Canada's winter ) and that countryside reflects the desperate loneliness of the characters . The small cast offers solid portrayals with the work of Nick Stahl being the standout performance . Theron , Robb , Harelson , Hopper , and Deborra-Lee Furness ( in a small but poignant role ) make the best of a shaky script . This is a mood piece and can become depressing if the viewer expects resolution of the sad and empty lives the characters lead . But there is a haunting quality to the look of the film that stays with the viewer , especially in the mystery in the eyes of the character James as he drives into an unknown but awakened future . Grady Harp
In Many Ways , This is Yesterday's Lunch - But a Fun and Endearing Replay !	Director Sherry Horman and writer Benedikt Gollhardt have not introduced any new ideas in ' Männer wie wir ' ( ' Guys and Balls ' ) - team sports dependent on camaraderie , outsiders getting the last laugh , coming out stories with sports as a background , homophobia to the max , and stereotypical depictions of gay men - but they have created a movie that has enough charm to get past all of the above . It is that kind of movie that makes you groan ' Oh no , not again ' , but then ends up making you feel warm and sentimental despite yourself ! Ecki ( a very charismatic and hunky Maximilian Brückner ) has grown up in a rural town , the son of a baker , and a committed soccer fan since childhood . Now as a young man he is sought after by his girlfriend Cordula ( Melody Sitta ) but is unable to respond to her advances . As the popular goalie on his soccer team he is hailed until quite by accident he is discovered in warm embrace with a teammate : the teammate and the team trash him for being gay , his father ( Dietmar Bär ) throws him out of the house , and poor Ecki departs for Dortmund to live with his sister , swearing to his team that he will return with a gay soccer team to defeat the homophobic jerks . Ecki and his sister Susanne ( Lisa Potthoff ) pair off to find gay team players and find them they do , in the strangest places ( this is where the film sags due to the stereotypes the director elected to cast ) . Ecki creates a solid team , falls in love with his sister's co-worker nurse Sven ( David Rott ) and despite some minor setbacks , the team boards the bus to return to Ecki's hometown to face off the enemy home team . Yes , it ends as you would imagine , but along the way the writer and director manage to make a few healthy comments about being true to yourself and your convictions . Despite everything predictable about the film , the actors - Brückner , Roth , Potthoff , Bär , Carlo Ljubek , Saskia Vester et al - bring a homespun credibility to the story . This is one of those films that requires forgiving its shortcomings to just enjoy the ride .
The Rewards and Perils of Bonded Kids Who Never Grow Up	SLINGSHOT explores the ups and downs of the lives of two boys , close friends since childhood , both from homes where they were unwanted , who made it through reform school and remain as a unit into an adult life as petty scam artists - living on the edge of crime and a life of desperate need for belonging . The script by Jay Alaimo ( who also directs ) , Matt Fiorello , Matthew Martin is gritty , full of humor and fine interchanges between the characters that manage to lift the story to a higher level of social statement than the usual ' crime buddies tales ' . Ashley ( David Arquette ) and Taylor ( Balthazar Getty ) are the borderline ' bad guy duo ' who have decided to move their scam of charming lonely housewives while robbing them to Fairfield County , Connecticut : the scam is that Taylor seduces the women while Ashley robs the preoccupied women . One of Taylor's hits is bored and married Karen ( Julianna Margulies ) whose second marriage is passionless making her an easy target for Taylor's charms . All goes according to plan until Taylor realizes he cares for Karen and Karen ( with a lot of encouragement from girlfriend Emma - Joely Fisher - for an affair ) falls for Taylor . The nightly signal from Karen that the coast is clear for Taylor to join her in bed is a light from her bedroom , yet when that goes on one evening , Taylor meets Karen's young daughter April ( Thora Birch ) in her mother's bedroom and barely escapes discovery when Karen and husband come home early . April at first mocks Taylor's attraction to her mother , but gradually the two bond - the first time that Taylor has been close to anyone except Ashley . While Taylor is ' prepping ' Karen for robbery Ashley is mixing with their ' crime bosses ' Dickson ( Michael Janik ) and Fast Bobby ( Svetlana Metkina ) and feels the threat to perform . Several incidents lead to the final confrontation between Taylor , now enamored with April , and Ashley , who finally comes to grips with the fact that he is love with Taylor . The long-standing duo hits a schism and how that resolves provides a disturbing ending . The four leads - Arquette , Getty , Margulies , and Birch - offer performances that are more than simple outlines of disconsolate characters : they inhabit their roles , finding cores of credibility that allow the viewer to understand the needs and fears of these isolated people . The cinematography by Paul Daley is appropriately grimy and the film editing by Jim Rubino takes Jay Alaimo's direction to a more cohesive whole . While not a great movie by any means , it is a touching character study of what happens to unwanted kids whose lives are dependent on each other in a world that rejects them . Grady Harp
Schreiber Makes Foer Visual	Jonathan Safran Foer's widely read novel ' Everything is Illuminated ' was a zany concoction of story , standup comedy , and fantasy that worked well as a diversion because of Foer's very apparent rough style of writing : everything is forgiven if the words play with the imagination . But as a film the book seemed a formidable undertaking . Liev Schreiber , a consummate actor , adapted Foer's book for the screen , performing major surgery on the tale , and then directed his version with great skill . The result is a film that always entertains but that also crosses lines between reality and fantasy , writer's intentions vs screenwriter's needs , and story manipulation that may please some and frustrate those who loved the book . Jonathan Safran Foer ( Elijah Wood ) is a collector of familial trinkets who sets out to the Ukraine to discover teasers of how his Jewish grandfather escaped annihilation in the Ukraine at the kindness of one Augustine ( Tereza Veselkova ) . Once in the Ukraine he hires a tour guide Alex ( Eugene Hutz ) who with his ' blind ' grandfather ( Boris Leskin ) as driver and their bizarre dog Sammy Davis Jr . Jr . to take him to Trachimbrod , the site where Foer's grandfather knew Augustine . It seems there is no such place , and the journey to wherever begins . Alex mangles his English with malapropisms and strange word substitutions making his job as translator for Foer the high point of the road trip ( as it made the original book the reason to read ! ) . The many entanglements the strange little group encounter in their drive results in finding the secrets Foer is seeking and he is able to return home satisfied with his journey . All this makes for an acceptable road trip comedy until Schreiber excises the bulk of the novel - the bits of history that make the eventual discovery of the truths Foer seeks more meaningful . And while the novel never lets the comedy slip off line , the screenplay switches gears and makes the story another tender yet sad holocaust tale . But despite the completed film's ending , the DVD shows the plentiful scenes not included in the film , scenes that are as over the top and barking for laughter as Foer's crazy novel . We should only be grateful that Schreiber has the sense to delete these costly production numbers , as they are indeed silly ! Eugene Hutz ( born in 1972 Yevhen Hudz in Kiev , Ukraine ) is the true find of the film . His ' acting experience ' is solely as the ' front man for Gogol Bordello , a gypsy punk band fusing supercharged folk influences with a sideshow cabaret ' . But he manages the wildly maniacal yet strangely intuitive character and lines of Alex with great finesse . He is a treasure ! The rest of the cast is strong and the splendid musical score by Paul Cantelon and the cinematography by Matthew Libatique add immeasurably to the film . Though many may disagree with Schrieber's manipulation of the book , few will be able to miss the fact that for a first outing as writer / director EVERYTHING IS ILLUMINATED is a fine start . Three stars for the film in general , but a fourth star for the performances by Hutz and Leskin . Grady Harp
Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome in Peru	Peruvian writer / director Josue Mendez has made a brave little low budget film that deals with a subject currently burgeoning our hospitals in this country as the fallout of the war on Iraq and still plagues the veterans of the Vietnam War - Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome ( aka Battle Rattle ) . This is a difficult topic to dramatize without being preachy or maudlin , but Mendez has succeeded where others have failed . Santiago ( Pietro Sibille ) is a 23-year-old retired veteran who was conscripted at age 16 and trained to be a killer - assigned to fighting in the war against Ecuador , against terrorists , and against the drug mafia . He returns to his family in Lima a damaged , broken , paranoid misfit who tries to leave his military past behind but mentally returns to it as the only time he felt important . Unable to work he finally begins to drive a taxi and encounters all manner of passengers - wealthy men , girls on the party circuit , disreputable people of all types . He tries desperately to adjust to the post-military life , but find his family in shambles , a wholly dysfunctional unit to which he can no longer relate . How he finds his ' place ' in this chaos is the subject of Mendez ' story ( Mendez has based this on a true story / stories and knows his subject well ) . Pietro Sibille as Santiago delivers a credible performance , one that consistently borders on fragmentation of a mind deeply scarred by war and fighting . The remainder of the cast is fine . Mendez uses a mixture of black and white film with color segments and this is distracting to annoying : if the choices of film related consistently to a tenor in the story ( which is not the case ) then this technique could be considered artistic . The manner in which the story is related is very much in keeping with the fragmented and paranoid mindset of Santiago and for this the director is to be commended for successfully achieving the next to impossible ! Many strong points to a film that is flawed by technical problems . Grady Harp
An Oft-Told Tale But Good Entertainment	THE SENTINEL will not create any new ideas for movie plots for the viewer , but it is filled with some fine actors who manage to keep the pace of this rather predictable ' inside the White House ' story of intrigue moving for all of its 108 minutes . The story revolves around the protection of the President of the US ( David Rasche ) from an assassination plot , a plot that is so tight that it appears to come from within the Security System of the White House . Pete Garrison ( Michael Douglas ) is a veteran member of the White House Security but has some problems : his ex-partner David ( Kiefer Sutherland ) , convinced that Pete slept with his wife , is suspicious of Pete ; Pete is having an affair with the President's wife ( Kim Bassinger ) ; Pete is pulled into dangerous territory trying to cover his secret and use a reliable old informer ( Raynor Scheine ) to give him clues ; a new officer appears on the scene to accompany David and is a friend , Jill ( Eva Longoria ) . Once the evidence points to Pete as the planner of the assassination he is the victim of a chase , a chase that eventually uncovers the true insider perpetrator of the plot . The action is well paced and the actors make their roles as credible as possible . One of the best parts of the film is the musical score by the very talented Christophe Beck who finally gets to demonstrate his skills as an orchestrator . The fault of the film lies in the seemingly ignored fact that when well known actors are placed in a suspense movie and given very little to do except in the beginning , then the fact that they are in the cast points a big finger that they are going to be the true culprit - and that is very much the case here . But for an evening's diversion the film provides some fine action work and the storyline is tense enough to hold your interest .
The Embryo of a Fine Film Defuses	Though most reviewers and viewers are putting this film down as a waste of time , this particular viewer sees many redeeming factors here that , given some further time in the editing room and a bit of script doctoring , could have resulted in a moving story . Young Swiss filmmaker Lionel Baier has both written ( with Laurent Guido ) and directed with quasi-autobiographical story that explores the coming of age of a lower class young lad who seems destined to settle for being a hustler . Loic ( first time actor Pierre Chatagny ) works in an assembly line chocolate factory in Bulle , Switzerland and his only ' life ' is provided through his internet activity meeting men for sex . His casual sexual encounters ( rather graphically shown in the first portion of the film ) are his only answer to relating to people until he meets Marie ( Natacha Koutchoumov ) with whom he rooms and bonds . Marie is bright and encourages Loic , uneducated and uninformed , to look up words he encounters - a simple but well-intended manner in which Loic can improve himself . He meets the older Lionel ( played by the director Lionel Baier ) who dangles before Loic's eyes the possibilities of finer things in life . Loic spends his idle hours with a digital camera and between his new interest in photography and his pursuing his ' basic ' education , he begins to long for a life more significant than his brainless casual sex . He becomes friends with a soccer player and his son , loses his friendship with Marie when Marie finds a real lover , and ultimately Loic yearns to escape the life of the ' stupid boy ' of the title and enters a dreamworld fantasy of something better . Good ideas for a film here , but Baier seems to get sidetracked into artsy camera work , quasi-porno , and surrealistic moving lights and alpine scenery , and the film falters as a result . But there does seem to be some promise of a new filmmaker on the rise , This film may not be tolerated by some for various reasons , but for the adventurous spirits who are unafraid of a bit of male frontal nudity and sexual acting out , here are redeeming aspects to this little film that merit attention . Grady Harp
Some Insights into the Creative Process of David Hockney	Jack Hazan's quasi-documentary A BIGGER SPLASH is an unfocused examination about the creative life of David Hockney and supposedly about the effect of his past relationship with his pupil Peter Schlesinger ( an artist , sculptor , and photographer who Hockney not only enjoyed as a lover but as a disciple ) . The précis appears to be that Hockney , in the throes of disappointment about the dissolution of his affair with Peter , decides to move to California where he has already been established as a painter of California people and places . In London we meet his friends - Celia Birtwell , the elegantly stylishly beautiful model Hockney used repeatedly , dress designer Ossie Clark , confidant Mo McDermott , and patron Henry Geldzahler - each of whom Hockney painted and drew . We watch as Hockney visits the galleries and admires works of his friends , how he paints in his studio , how he relates to his gallerists ( like Paul Kasmin ) , and how he perceives men and other artists . Peter Schlesinger figures prominently in the film with many episodes of Peter's swimming in the pools of the people Hockney would eventually immortalize . He is a fine presence and carries his silent role well - almost appearing as a ghost muse that keeps Hockney focused on his now infamous swimming pool paintings . The magic of this film , for those to whom Hockney is a well known and important painter , is the visual recreation of the paintings that have made him so famous : we are allowed to see Celia and her husband with white cat in context with the canvas , the view of Peter staring into the pool at an under water swimmer , the woman and her animal heads who appears in another of Hockney's famous paintings at poolside , etc . This kind of cinematic background is valuable now and will prove invaluable to the archives of David Hockney . For those people this is a must-see film , despite its meandering technique and choppy editing . For others , it may seem too self-indulgent .
Means to an end	Though many will avoid this little film because the title and DVD cover suggest a mindless mélange of sexual encounters , those who can get past these flaws will find a well written ( Miles Brandman ) examination of young people's concepts of relationships and how to keep them . Brandman also directs this stylish charmer and has at his disposal actors not usually associated with a more serious type of story . James ( Macaulay Culkin ) and Heather ( Alexis Dziena ) are young , attractive and in love , though Heather is finally able to confide in James that she is unable to achieve orgasm in their otherwise satisfactory sex life . Ellis ( Kuno Becker ) and Renee ( Eliza Dushku ) are another couple whose intimate life has lost its sparkle . Each of the couples ( who have never met ) hears about sex therapist Dr . Wellbridge ( Joanna Miles ) who supports the concept of group sex as a means to strengthen relationships grown stale . Each couple meets with the doctor , reveals their insecurities and fears and Dr . Wellbridge arranges a ' session ' for the two couples to share an evening of intimate interaction . How this ' change ' alters each couple's relationship is the message of the film : some surprises are in store that are unsuspected . Yes , there is comedy here and yes , there is thoughtful dialog , but the pleasure of the film lies in discovering the expanded acting abilities demonstrated by these four young attractive actors . The film may not be deep , but it does entertain and it most certainly has some useful information about love and relationships we all need to know . Grady Harp
A Lovely Avant-garde String of Pearls Searching for its Clasp	YES is film you want to love and most people who watch it probably know they are in for a Sally Potter ride , so little quirks like an iambic pentameter script shouldn't shock . There are so many gorgeous moments in this lushly painted canvas , so many isolated portions of dialog that are thought-provoking or just simply beautiful English poetry , so many scenes that are in the capable hands of Joan Allen and Simon Abkarian that are among the finest depictions of understated passion - that it is a shame the overall effect of the montages is not wholly successful . And I think the lack of cohesion must be returned to the capable but distracted hands of Potter's script and direction . Joan Allen ( who simply grows more beautiful and talented with every edgy Indie she takes on ) is a biogeneticist , a woman whose loveless marriage to cold politician Sam Neill is tolerable only because of her infatuation with her work . At a ( here is one of the choice visual pearls of perfection ) formal dinner she notices and is noticed by a handsome Lebanese cook ( Simon Abkarian ) and her heart ignites . The two talk , meet again , and respond viscerally to each other in a degree of passion and need new to both . This union opens the platform for words concerning Catholicism / Western philosophy versus Islam / Eastern loathing for the imperialism of the Western world ( read USA ) : it is the Muslim philosophy / secular West conflict that resounds so clearly in today's world . Other concepts bathed in iambic pentameter include marriage , fidelity , motherhood , racism , immigration , bickering among the kitchen staff where the cook works - all worthy topics . As the two glide along the plane of a sexual relationship the man reveals he is a surgeon / scientist who left his country because of philosophical reasons and yet defends his Muslim stance and homeland to the isolated woman who is unable to ' hear ' his crumbled life . The woman has interchanges with her goddaughter ( Stephanie Leonidas ) , her dying communist aunt ( who in voice over technique relates some of the loveliest lines in the script ) and with her husband who cannot find his center . The manner in which this all comes to an end is best left for the viewer to discover . The problems with Potter's jewel-like film are many : much of the dialog ( some of which is simply terrible writing ) is buried with excessively loud ' background ' music ( ranging from Satie to punk rock ) but worse is enunciated so softly by the actors that it is indecipherable . Yes , Shakespeare wrote his plays in iambic pentameter , but not a word is lost in performances because the actors enunciate with perfect diction and allow the poetry to flow naturally , making it become simply dialog of elegance . Potter's poetry is spotty , so perhaps it is as well that much of it is lost . When it works , it is stunning . Joan Allen is radiant in this role and gives us as defined a character as possible given the script limitations . Much the same can be said for Armenian actor Simon Abkarian . And despite the conflicts in their philosophies that threaten to crack the crystal of their affair , there is a true chemistry here . Some characters such as Shirley Henderson try very hard but simply swallow their lines in annoying and blurry accents . Sounds like a lot of negatives ? Well , they are there , but for this viewer the piece still gives the same satisfaction as hearing a new symphonic work or viewing a form of visual art in progress . There is much beauty here , enough to beg forgiveness for the shortcomings . Grady Harp
Visuals 5 , Story 3 , But a Pleasure to Watch	THE MISTRESS OF SPICES has some of the most beautiful use of color and texture in the form a magical Spice Bazaar that has graced a DVD . It also has as its protagonist the very beautiful Aishwarya Rai and the love interest of the always-reliable Dylan McDermott . The story was created and directed by Paul Mayeda Berges ( with help from Gurinder Chada ) who has given us such fine films as " Paris , je t'aime ' , ' Bride & Prejudice ' and ' Bend It Like Beckham ' . So the question arises as to why this film just doesn't quite make it : the reason may be the tough marriage of fantasy with reality , assigning more importance to dialog between the Mistress and the spices than to the development of storyline . Tilo ( the ravishingly beautiful Aishwarya Rai ) was taken in as a child by a spiritually inclined First Mother ( Zohra Sehgal ) who trains young girls the mysteries of spices - their magic , their meaning and their rigid life style imposed on the developing Mistresses . Those who gain the secrets of the spices are sent into the world , warned never to use the magic for them selves , never to touch human skin , and never to leave the shops where their spices are shared to help mankind . Tilo moves to the Bay Area and does good deeds for her customers until she meets Doug ( Dylan McDermott ) who needs her care after a motorcycle accident . They touch , their eyes speak of mutual desire and Tilo is thrown into conflict of being a mistress of spices or of having a love life . How situations and destiny work through the story is the meager line of the tale , the majority of the script is Tilo communicating with her spices ! The cast contains some fine character actors such as Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje , Caroline Chikezie , Anupam Kher , and of course Zohra Sehgal . And there is enough statement about immigrant status in America to keep the story topical . THE MISTRESS OF SPICES entertains and that is a pleasure . Just don't expect a film on the level of director Paul Mayeda Berges ' other works . Grady Harp
Posing	' Partner ( s ) ' turns out to be a far better little film than expected . Not that there is anything original about this oft told variation of posing to be something you're not in order to take advantage of career development only to have that posing backfire . But Dave Diamond's script and direction and the presence of an attractive , bubbly and capable cast make this little piece of fluff float . Tables are turned in a competitive law firm where an important case is to be assigned , a case involving sex discrimination over a gay employee . Dave ( Jay Harrington ) and Katherine ( Julie Bowen ) , lovers in the past , vie for the assignment that will most assuredly result in being granted full partner ship in the firm . The company involved happens to include a cute young lass Lucy ( Brooke Langton ) who lives in the same apartment with Dave ( Dave happens to room with a gay guy Christopher - Michael Ian Black - but Dave is straight ) . Lucy eyes Dave but mistakenly thinks Dave is gay , a fact that she feels will help her father's company in the lawsuit if they are represented by a gay lawyer ( politics , you know . . . ) . Dave goes along with the charade , tells his company he is gay , wins the assignment leaving Katherine jealous , knowing that Dave is NOT gay . The remainder of the story revolves around the cat and mouse game between Dave and Katherine and Dave and Lucy's mutual attraction that interferes with his job . There are many funny side characters who constantly comment on what the gay mind is like . But the story ends well , with the film being a vaguely funny if very superficial view of what being gay is all about . Not a great film but certainly an entertaining one . Sort of an extended au courant soap opera , it works fairly well on the big screen , largely due to the sustained light touch with which it is delivered . Grady Harp , December 05
Eric Rohmer as an Acquired Taste	Eric Rohmer will undoubtedly sustain in cinema history as a unique writer and director of French films . He is far more interested in dialogue , conversation among his characters , and ideas than he is in plot or storyline development . His films affect many as too didactic , too much like a lecture series on current events or historical events to be considered a movie . Perhaps that is the case , as watching a Rohmer film takes total concentration and thinking . Such is the case for his 2004 TRIPLE AGENT . Set in Paris of 1936-37 , it is essentially a re-thinking of a true story that about a spy , a bit of history that is still unsolved . To understand this film requires a working knowledge of the political movements intertwining during the time : France's Popular Front , Hitler's rising influence in Europe , the Stalinist era , the Spanish Civil War with Franco and his adversaries , etc . The mix is all placed in the thoughts and discussions of Fyodor Voronin ( Serge Renko ) , his Greek painter wife Arsinoé ( Katerina Didaskalu ) and their interactions with the changing people of the political ploys ( played with sincere verve by Cyrielle Claire , Grigori Manukov , Dimitri Rafalsky , Nathalia Krougly , Amanda Langlet , Jeanne Rambur , Georges Benoît , Emmanuel Salinger among the large and confusing cast ) . The ' story ' emerges from Fyodor's relationship to the political leanings that pull his attention away from Arsinoé and the complications of his physical structure with his intense involvement in the political and ideological climes . The film works for those with enough savvy to catch all the intrigues of that period in European history . But for a film so completely dependent on rhetoric and smart dialogue this project suffers greatly from the poor subtitles : while most of the French is translated for us , much of the Russian and German is not , as though we all have access to those languages . The result is a static , dry , intense film in which much is lost due to technical flaws . The cast is excellent but the editing and clarity of each character's role falls by the wayside far too often . Rohmer's genius is there , but it is an acquired taste . Would that the viewer had the background knowledge somehow supplied to support the fine story that is being related ! Grady Harp
Recollections of Oz	Charles McDougall's resume includes directing episodes on ' Sex and the City ' , ' Desperate Housewives ' , Queer as Folk ' , ' Big Love ' , ' The Office ' , etc . so he comes with all the credentials to make the TV film version of Meg Wolitzer's novel SURRENDER , DOROTHY a success . And for the most part he manages to keep this potentially sappy story about sudden death of a loved one and than manner in which the people in her life react afloat . Sara ( Alexa Davalos ) a beautiful unmarried young woman is accompanying her best friends - gay playwright Adam ( Tom Everett Scott ) , Adam's current squeeze Shawn ( Chris Pine ) , and married couple Maddy ( Lauren German ) and Peter ( Josh Hopkins ) with their infant son - to a house in the Hamptons for a summer vacation . The group seems jolly until a trip to the local ice creamery by Adam and Sara ) results in an auto accident which kills Sara . Meanwhile Sara's mother Natalie Swedlow ( Diane Keaton ) who has an active social life but intrusively calls here daughter constantly with the mutual greeting ' Surrender , Dorothy ' , is playing it up elsewhere : when she receives the phone call that Sara is dead she immediately comes to the Hamptons where her overbearing personality and grief create friction among Sara's friends . Slowly but surely Natalie uncovers secrets about each of them , thriving on talking about Sara as though doing so would bring her to life . Natalie's thirst for truth at any cost results in major changes among the group and it is only through the binding love of the departed Sara that they all eventually come together . Diane Keaton is at her best in these roles that walk the thread between drama and comedy and her presence holds the story together . The screenplay has its moments for good lines , but it also has a lot of filler that becomes a bit heavy and morose making the actors obviously uncomfortable with the lines they are given . Yes , this story has been told many times - the impact of sudden death on the lives of those whose privacy is altered by disclosures - but the film moves along with a cast pace and has enough genuine entertainment to make it worth watching . Grady Harp
Alienation in Many Guises	First time screenwriter David Patterson adapted his own play ' Finger Painting in a Murphy Bed ' for the film LOVE , LUDLOW making the onus of the success of the film rest heavily on his shoulders . Fortunately the producers found first-time director Adrienne J . Weiss who has capably transformed a delicate triangle into a solid little comedy . If polish is lacking in the final product it can easily be forgiven by the fact that this is a new venture . A three character story , each of the three people we get to know is borderline functional in their approach to life and the world at large . Myra ( Alicia Goranson ) is a hard working office temp but is socially crippled by the fact that she is the caretaker for her bipolar brother Ludlow ( Brendan Sexton III ) who is confined to their tiny apartment and demands every ounce of Myra's attention . At work , love starved but socially anxious Myra meets Reggie ( David Eigenberg ) , a gentle naive soul who has never been in any type of relationship . The two socially inept people find ' something that is missing ' in their lives , but when Myra faces the fact that she is confined to quarters due to the obligation compulsive Ludlow's care and when Reggie meets Ludlow and realizes Myra is unable to move out of her life space due to Ludlow's childlike tantrums and demands , the strange trio's compatibility is challenged and the method in which the three cope with the big decisions in their lives is the resolution of the movie . The dialogue is sharp but more in keeping with a stage drama than a film : there is a lack of flow , which is not the fault of the editors or the cinematographer or the director . The script is stage bound . But given that fact , this is a modern comedy , funny at times , aching at times , but always reflecting the innate humor in even the saddest of human lives . The trio of leads gives fine performances as do the supporting cast members . In a year where sibling dysfunction is one of the topics du jour , LOVE , LUDLOW holds up well in the competition . Grady Harp
National Geographic Visual Splendor without the Historical Depth Needed	Viewing APOCALYPTO is a visual and visceral experience : some of the most beautiful cinematic depictions of skies , jungles , raging rivers and extraordinary recreations of Mayan temples and peoples fill the screen for a very long two and a half hours . The images include excessive violence ( beheadings , punjee stake traps , genocidal type destruction of a village of people , brutalized slaves , etc ) and concentrate more on chases than on drama . But the effect presented is richly colorful and imaginative . There is little story to tell . A quiet and fearless tribe spends its time hunting , teasing a fellow tribesman about his infertility and making him the brunt of cruel jokes - just the ordinary camaraderie we are led to believe - until our main character Jaguar Paw ( Rudy Youngblood ) hears a shudder in the jungle that results in his tribe being overtaken by a more aggressive , human sacrificing tribe . The village is burned , Jaguar Paw manages to hide his pregnant wife and child in a well , and he and the remaining villagers are taken into slavery and marched to the Mayan capital where they are sacrificed by Mayan priests to appease the gods to save their crumbling empire . A sun eclipse saves Jaguar Paw , he escapes , and after an interminable chase through the jungle reunites with his wife and children just as the Spanish conquistadors sail into harbor . The cast responds well to the direction of Mel Gibson . Outstanding among them are of course Rudy Youngblood , Dalia Hernández , Jonathan Brewer , Morris Birdyellowhead , María Isabel Díaz , Espiridion Acosta Cache , Raoul Trujillo and Rodolfo Palacias among others . But nearly as much credit goes to the costumer and hairpiece design ( Mayes C . Rubeo ) and to the set builders ( Jay Aroesty ) of the Mayan Temples . Visually the movie is stunning though in a graphically gross sort of way . The problem lies with the lack of significant information about the fall of the Mayan Empire , one of the more advanced civilizations known : Gibson would have us see only the brutal savagery of a highly sophisticated body of people . A sad depiction of a great nation . Grady Harp
Confessions and Sequelae	OUTING RILEY may feel a bit self serving , as though Bobby Riley , the main character of the film , is sitting in a Confessional Booth revealing his secret , and in fact that is certainly the case as the film was conceived , lived , written , directed and stars Pete Jones as Bobby . This may account for some of the awkward sense of some of the dialog : it is difficult to be up front about an issue with a history as embedded as the theme of this film . But despite these minor flaws , this little film has a heart of gold and a cast of actors who bring it to life in a good way . Bobby Riley ( Pete Jones ) is an Irish Catholic closeted gay man living in Chicago with his partner Andy ( Michael McDonald ) . Bobby is being pressured by Andy and by his informed sister Maggie ( Julie Pearl ) to come out to his family - a good Irish Catholic family of four brothers , a sister , and a dying father ( Bob Riley ) . His facade with his brothers is a mime of voyeurism of ' chicks ' and a beer drinking butch life . Each family member has a secret : Maggie can't hold a relationship and is unable to keep secrets ; Connor ( Stoney Westmoreland ) is addicted to internet porn ; Jack ( Dev Kennedy ) is a priest who has problems with the conflicts the church places on his own beliefs ; Luke ( the always outstanding Nathan Fillion ) is a pothead . Once Maggie decides she must out Bobby , the brothers are conflicted : homophobia raises its ugly head despite the bonds of close family ties . How the family comes to grips with Bobby's being gay , individually and as a family , is the crux of the tale . This is a fine cast ( especially Fillion and Pearl ) and the story rolls along at a fine pace . At times it feels ' dishonest ' but that is in the script , not the acting . This is not a major film , but it just may be a helpful one to families and friends who are curious about the lifestyle of someone who has surprised them with a similar secret ! Grady Harp
Look at Me , See Me , Do I Exist ?	LA MOUSTACHE is a very well acted and conceived Belgian film that starts with a terrific premise that could be the opening for either a comedy or a drama and ends up wondering which path to take . Writer / director Emmanuel Carrère ( with co-script writer Jérôme Beaujour ) takes us on a mind trip that becomes increasingly disorienting and frustrating as the film progresses . It challenges the audience to think but then there is no payoff for the effort . Marc ( Vincent Lindon ) is a handsome middle aged man married to Agnès ( Emmanuelle Devos ) for fifteen years and one morning , in what in retrospect is in response to a bit of relationship ennui , decides to shave off his mustache which has always been present since his marriage began . The surprise to Marc is that Agnès doesn't even notice . At work Marc quietly shows up and no one notices , not even his close associate Bruno ( Hippolyte Girardot ) . Marc is at first perplexed , then he confronts his wife and fellow workers with the fact that he just shaved off his mustache and no one believes that he ever had one ! Marc begins to search for photos showing his previous face and gradually the photos disappear and his wife denies ever seeing them , ever traveling to Bali where the photos were taken , etc . People begin to wonder about Marc's sanity and his wife suggests he seek psychiatric care . It is at this point that Marc enters a fugue state and ultimately disappears to Hong Kong on a never ending quest for discovering the truth about who he really is , whether he actually exists , whether he is the pawn in a cosmic game . . . . it just gets more ludicrous . Both Vincent Lindon and Emmanuelle Devos are superb in this peculiar roles and the film has solid production values . Perhaps it is the director's point to leave the audience in a confused state , one that calls forth the existential questions , but as a film it merely peters out , leaving the viewer a bit frustrated by the lack of substance . Grady Harp
Ex Post Facto	DEATH OF A PRESIDENT is most assuredly a film that will cause boisterous anger among those who are reacting to the title . It is an ' imagined documentary ' about the assassination of President Bush on October 19 , 2007 , using this ' event ' to explore the manner in which the US government copes with such a proposed event . In ways it echoes the JFK assassination , an event that still is under scrutiny as to why it happened and who was ultimately responsible . Using actual footage of President Bush at an Economic conference in Chicago along with reporters and actors who supply the drama , the film ' shows ' the assassination and the aftermath with the subsequent frightening state of Cheney as President . But the emphasis is on how the driver of the story is placing blame , finding a perpetrator and then convincing Washington and the public why the event happened . It is terrifyingly believable . But few will see the film this way - a possibility and a series of consequences that might result . Perhaps it is better to quote the writer / director Gabriel Range who seems to sum it up best : " I have always known that I would be condemned for the very idea of this film , but I believe that sometimes it is not only acceptable for art to be outrageous - it is necessary . We live in a time of incredible fear . . . The advance condemnation of this film by politicians and pundits who have not seen - and may never see - this film reflects the landscape of fear in which we live today , and which my film attempts to address . " Enough said . Grady Harp
A Tense , Fast Paced Thriller	Who would expect a screenplay / story by Carl Ellsworth ( ' Buffy the Vampire Slayer ' ) directed by horror master Wes Craven to be an intelligent thriller ? Yet RED EYE is precisely that . This a tight conversational duet for two actors with accompaniment that slips up on the viewer so surely that the terrifying climax is somewhat of a relief from the preceding tension . Rachael McAdams as the heroine proves she can sustain a fine character development from first appearance through the suspense to the last screen frame . Likewise , Cillian Murphy uses not only his talent as an actor but also his clear blue-eyed innocence to foreshadow the evil underneath . Since the majority of the film takes place aboard an airplane in flight ( the red eye from Texas to Miami ) , the tension for the story rests heavily with these two actors . They succeed in every way , as does Craven in turning his directorial skills to intellectual rather than physical terror . Well done ! Grady Harp
Proof that a Seed of Truth is Stranger / Funnier than Fiction	THE LAST SHOT is best viewed with a bit of info to let the patient viewer understand what is coming . The opening titles are clever , dealing with movie paraphernalia that serve as matrices for the stars and production staff names and should give a sense of what is to come . But it isn't until the first 20 or so minutes into the film that the significance of the movie can be appreciated . Based on an apparently true news article , THE LAST SHOT takes a pot shot at not only Hollywood , but also organized crime , production magnates , the FBI , and little people with big dreams lost in the elusive utopia of fame . The plot is well outlined on these pages . Suffice it to say that the FBI sends Joe Devine ( Alec Baldwin ) to Hollywood to pose as a producer to lure the underground crime lord Tommy Sanz ( Tony Shalhoub ) to surface and be caught . Devine needs a script as he discovers from the gross Fanny Nash ( Joan Cusack at her hilarious best ) and gradually encounters Steven Schats ( Matthew Broderick ) who with his pathetic brother Marshall Paris ( Tim Blake Nelson ) has written an unmarketable , non-salable script called ' Arizona ' . Devine grabs on to the project , making Schats the director ( his dream come true ) and casts the film with has-been actress with box office draw Emily French ( Toni Collette who looks terrific and adds yet another priceless cameo to her brilliant repertoire ) and Valerie Weston ( Calista Flockhart ) who just happens to be Schats ' squeeze . The process of film-making and the infectious delirium of Hollywood affects everyone in this film - even the FBI and especially Devine who softens into a man who wants to provide the ' littleman ' Schats with his dream . The humor is broad , WAY over the top , crude , and slapstick and in so many ways this movie mimics all of the intangible oddities that make Hollywood what it is . The performances by Baldwin , Broderick , Cusack , Flockhart - and , well , all of the inserted cameos - are excellent . Once you get the premise of this film it moves from being inane to being a really terrific parody with some sensitive metaphors . Grady Harp
A Fantasy with a Strong Cast of Humans and Animated Animals !	Not being one who seeks out the seemingly endless line of Harry Potter / Narnia / Lord of the Rings tropes ( a little computer generated monster realm goes a long way ) , THE GOLDEN COMPASS came somewhat as a pleasant surprise . Yes , this is still a fantasy film , but the emphasis is more on stylish creation of various animals ( in the forms of ' daemons ' that accompany children as their souls , morphing into various animal life at will ) than tiresome explosions and flying beasties . Lyra ( Dakota Blue Richards ) is clearly the star of this adventure that explores the possibility of other , parallel worlds whose interaction with the world as we know it is controlled by various groups of good guys and bad guys , all seeking the source of secrecy contained in a Golden Compass that can only be read by a single girl - Lyra , a poor child living in the presence of scholars . Lyra's uncle , Lord Asriel ( Daniel Craig ) places the Golden Compass in Lyra's knowing hands and heads off to the far North to investigate the element that binds all life together - Dust . The tale is set in motion by the enigmatic Mrs . Coulter ( Nicole Kidman ) who gains Lyra's confidence and offers to take her to the great North . All manner of adventures occur on the journey - friends of Lyra's are threatened to be separated from their various daemons in the cruel hands of the bad guys , Lyra's encounter with a witch Serafina Pekkala ( Eva Green ) , her assistance from a friendly astronaut ( Sam Elliott ) and an armored bear - and with all fantasies , good prevails - or does it ? Tune in for the very obvious next installment . The pleasures are many , not the least of which are the voices and changing forms of the little animal daemons . The cast is excellent and the whole movie sails with yet another beautiful musical score by Alexandre Desplat . It is a nice diversion , but you have to love fantasy . Grady Harp
Ad lib	There is much to love about the quirky little film ONCE : it is honest , simple , transparent , and made with a low budget and lots of love . The leading characters are gentle people who happen to sing as well as act and the love story they create is a fragile little tale that remains in the air as a nice memory after the credits are past . A Dublin busker ( Glen Hansard ) is a songwriter and singer who plies his music on the streets when his is not helping his warmly generous father ( Bill Hodnett ) in his vacuum repair shop : his songs reflect a ruptured love affair and are sensitively poignant . Along comes a Czech girl ( Markéta Irglová ) who sells flowers on the streets but is impressed enough with the lad's music to stop , listen , and even put ten cents in his case . The two strike up a friendship ( the girl plays the piano in a music shop during lunch hour ) and in time these two bruised people interact in the wavelength of their love of music . The lad meets the girl's daughter and mother ( Danuse Ktrestova ) - the father of the child is still in the Czech Republic - , they all become friends , and with the help of a few fellow musicians they cut a recording that hopefully will launch the lad's career in a trip to London . The mood of the extemporaneous feeling piece is one of developing love that can only happen once , especially given the histories of each of the two musicians . Writer / director John Carney demonstrates how a simple story can be made into a touching film for under $150 , 000 . and on a shooting schedule of 17 days . The featurettes have just as much tenderness in outlining the production of the film as the film itself . The only problem with the film for this viewer is the music , which seems redundant and repetitive : for those who favor this type of music this will not be a ' flaw ' . It is admirable that films like this are being made , restoring our faith in honest craftsmanship backed by warmth of intent . Grady Harp
" There is no ' I ' in me . . . "	BIGGER THAN THE SKY has the feel of an Indie that was made out of a lot of love and commitment from all concerned . That's a good thing , but at the beginning of this little film the viewer questions whether or not the actors can make the story fly - and if you actually want to take the trip with them . But stick it out because a sound film well made rewards the hesitation . It is a ' little man finds his way ' tale that makes good sense and provides good entertainment . Peter Rooker ( Marcus Thomas ) is in a depressed slump after his girlfriend has dumped him . He is a ' cellophane man ' computer artist , living the solitary life , noticed by no one , longing for a feeling of belonging . The place is Portland , Oregon . Peter notes the posting of auditions for a Portland Community Theater production of ' Cyrano de Bergerac ' and slowly decides to attempt a moment of belonging by auditioning for the play : if he could just land a small part at least he'd belong . At the auditions he meets the warmly friendly theatrical group : Michael ( John Corbett ) who is a fine actor with no sense of future , Grace ( Amy Smart ) a pretty young sprite and competent trouper , director Edwina ( Clare Higgins ) who is a true theater person preferring to unmask the real Cyrano rather than hide him behind the infamous nose , sassy costumer Mrs . Keene ( Patty Duke ) , and theater founder and adviser Kippy ( Alan Corduner ) who has retired from the theater due to his progressive cancer . To everyone's surprise , especially Peter's , Peter lands the title role of Cyrano while Michael becomes Christian and Grace becomes Roxanne . Edwina's faith in the audition honesty of Peter has bolstered her own commitment to her dreams and she works with the cast to mold this very inexperienced ( read lousy ) actor into the tough role of Cyrano . Peter finds joy in the camaraderie of the actors , and for the first time in his life he becomes a social person . As the play is rehearsed Peter and Michael and Grace become a misguided trio - Peter does not understand the promiscuous life of the actors - and when Peter loses his job because of his increased involvement in the theater , he is informed that Edwina is forced to replace him with a seasoned actor Ken Zorbell ( Sean Astin ) at the 13th hour . As good comedies go there are unexpected turns of events at every level of the remaining time until the opening night and the ending results in the personal growth of each of the actors and company . There are some well-drawn performances from John Corbett , Amy Smart , Clare Higgins , Patty Duke ( in two roles ) , Alan Corduner , and ultimately Marcus Taylor ( he is so convincingly an untrained actor at the beginning of the film that the audience will think he is wholly without talent ! ) . Director Al Corley keeps the community theater magic alive and Rodney Patrick Vaccaro's script is sparkled by incidental quotes from Rostand's play . And to sum up the final product of the film in Cyrano's word , it has ' panache ' . Not a great film , but a warm little story that examines the lonely lives of people who need the stage of a community theater to find themselves . Grady Harp
A Comic Book Hero Transformed into a Credible Hero	Not at all being one for the comic book fantasies that continue to flood the screens and gobble the dollars , camouflage weak scripts with tacky overblown computer graphics , introduce bizarre meanies and barely clothed wonder women , etc , I approached this BATMAN BEGINS with a big bag of prejudices . And in no time at all that bag of unjustified prejudices began to fill with applause for a truly fine film that carries style , wit , character , and enough dazzle to please everyone . This is a surprising good movie ! It takes courage to move a larger than life fantasy hero into the realm of humans who through reasons of their own feel the need to become superheroes to the down and outers of the world . Watching the early life of Batman as produced and trained and stimulated by believable characters makes the non-believer want to return to the earlier forays into the genre . So very much of the success of this film lies in the hands of a brilliant cast : Christian Bale ( once again a hunk after his pathetically shriveled body in ' The Machinist ' ) , Liam Neeson , Michael Caine , Linus Roache , Morgan Freeman , Tom Wilkinson , Gary Oldman , Cillian Murphy and yes , even Katie Holmes ( ! ) all master the tightrope of parody , serious drama , and comedy . The costumes and cinematography are exciting and the direction by Christopher Nolan is pitch perfect . It is good to have a dusty old bag of prejudices fall apart . Maybe there will be more action hero movies that take themselves seriously as an art form ! Grady Harp
A Tense , Well-Scripted Thriller Pertinent to our Times	Great literature its not , but Robert Ludlum is hard to beat as a writer of suspense thrillers and COVERT ONE : THE HADES FACTOR is no exception . Writing the screenplay with Ludlum is Elwood Reid and together they have created a very fast moving tale of the threats of bio-terrorism , found in Mick Jackson a perfect match for a director , and gathered an exciting cast to make this 160 minute made-for-television movie fly by at tremendous speed . The premise of the film involves the worst of all ' weapons of mass destruction ' - biological warfare - and here the topic is dealt with in a fascinating manner that pulls the US Government into the fold as implicated in the feasibility of such warfare . Not possible ? Well , watch the film and make up your own mind . Stephen Dorff plays Jon Smith , a one time covert agent for the White House , who becomes ensnarled in a plot to release the Hades Virus ( a hemorrhagic lethal variant of the Ebola virus ) to destroy the US . Smith's girlfriend Dr . Amsden ( Sofia Myles ) works for the government in the department that watches for measures just such as this . When the plot to sell the virus ( is it possibly a virus known to the US government as the Scimitar project ? ) falls into the hands of an agent Rachel Russell ( Mira Sorvino ) , the confusion of who is working for whom unfolds and all manner of agents and FBI , CIA , etc agents tumble around the President ( Anjelica Huston ) trying to identify the true culprits and the race to stop the dissemination of the deadly virus . In the many roles of varying consequence are actors Blair Underwood , Danny Huston , Colm Meaney , Josh Hopkins , etc . The film is not without its gruesome elements : what depiction of bio-terrorism could avoid that ? But the pace and the action sequences and the many locations of the film make the story propel along at a fascinating pace and the actors hold their own despite some predictable moments . Though this obviously is a fiction novel and a good one at that , there is a degree of truth in all fiction and any time writers and artists can help us understand possibilities , we are the better informed for it . Recommended viewing .
A Moody , Evocative JANE EYR	Oddly enough the Charlotte Brontë's classic novel ' Jane Eyre ' has had more cinematic transitions than almost any of the old novels . The story is powerful but with the frequency of film adaptations , even the story grows tired , unless someone breathes new life into the interpretation . In this case that breath comes from director Franco Zeffirelli who has engaged Hugh Whitemore to open the story as a screenplay . The results give a different emphasis to the story and one that for this viewer works well . In this particular incarnation the rags to riches heroine Jane Eyre is played with subtlety by the beautiful Charlotte Gainsbourg ( with Anna Paquin as the younger version ) and Rochester the master of the manor is a William Hurt , playing his character more for life and flesh than the usual darkly sinister keeper of secrets . What results from the combination of cast and crew is a film that is far more a romance than a vapid mystery : the fire between Jane and Rochester is palpable and is given more space and time than the other versions which elect to dwell on the mad ' wife ' upstairs finally destroyed in the fire that brings Rochester down to Jane's initial stance on the social scale . The cinematography by David Watkin captures the period beautifully as does the musical score by Claudio Capponi and Alessio Vlad . As with all period pieces the cast of supporting characters paint the various aspects of the novel and here such luminous actors as Joan Plowright , Geraldine Chaplin , Joséphine Serre , Maria Schneider , Elle Macpherson , and John Wood among many others offer fully realized portraits of the class distinctions that ruled the era . This is a fine film version of the Brontë novel and one well worth watching repeatedly . Grady Harp
A Nearly Impossible Story to Tell or Believe : True Heroism	THE CHILDREN OF HUANG SHI is a long ( greater than two hours ) epic tale that happens to be a true story of an extraordinary hero's life and gift to humanity during World War II . If as a film the telling of this story is a bit shaky in spots , it is probably due to the episodic series of events that happened very quickly and under existing conditions of profound stress . Yet despite the occasional misfires in production this remains a bit of history we all should know . George Hogg ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) is a journalist assigned to Shanghai in 1937 and with his colleagues he plans to explore the extent of the invasion of China by the Japanese . Under the guise of Red Cross workers his small band manages to enter Nanjing where now alone due to the loss of his friends to battle he observes and photographs the atrocities of mass murders of the people of Nanjing . He is captured by the Japanese , tortured when his confiscated camera reveals his terrifying photographs , and it is only by acts of fortune and the aid of a Chinese Nationalist Chen Hansheng ( Chow Yun-Fat ) that he escapes . Hogg probes the Chinese countryside for further evidences of the evil of the Japanese invasion , and he finds a village of children ( adults are all absent ) and realizes that he is in an orphanage without a leader . At first reluctant to assume the role of guardian of these impoverished and filthy frightened children , he soon accepts his responsibility and is challenged by an Australian nurse Lee Pearson ( Radha Mitchell ) to become not only the caretaker but also the father / teacher / provider / role model these children so desperately need . Seeing the advancing of the Japanese , Hogg decides to take his wards 700 mile away to a small village by the Gobi desert reachable only by the infamous Silk Road . It is this journey and the way both the children and Hogg are affected by the challenge that absorb the greater part of the film . Observing the transformation of George Hogg's view of the world is made credible by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ' performance . The cast of children often steals the limelight , but with supporting cast members such as Chow Yun-Fat , Radha Mitchell and Michelle Yeoh as an opium merchant the story never lacks color and character . The look of the film is dark , but the message of this story is full of light . Here is a bit of Chinese history we should all know ! Grady Harp
Fast Paced Thriller with a Sappy Ending	EAGLE EYE is not a great movie but it is an entertaining one . Granted , leaving reason at the door is a prerequisite to plugging into the plot , but the style of the film and the premise that in the midst of all of our government's supposedly first class intelligence agencies such amazing programs can be staged opens the window for some speculation . Credit writers John Glenn , Travis Wright , Hillary Seitz and Dan McDermott for pushing the button on current cellphone obsession tied to terrorism to an all time high . And with director D . J . Caruso at the helm the whole preposterous ( but entertaining ) tale comes vividly to life . Jerry Shaw ( Shia LaBeouf ) is a free-living disappointment to his father and at the funeral of Jerry's twin brother Ethan the tables turn . Somehow Jerry's little apartment is filled with guns and ammo and a mysterious female telephone voice on his cellphone warns him to escape the impending FBI entry . Jerry is clueless as to the appearance of the weaponry and when taken into custody Agent Thomas Morgan ( Billy Bob Thornton ) accuses him of collusion with his probable terrorist twin brother , now deceased . Jerry escapes but is ' followed ' by the constant orders from his cellphone that lead to dangerous circumstances . On the other side of the city a working mother Rachel ( Michelle Monaghan ) receives equally strange cellphone calls threatening to murder her child if he does not do the voice's bidding . Obviously Jerry and Rachel are joined in this duo adventure and the manner in which they resolve the clues on the run closely pursued by Agent Morgan , Zoe Perez ( Rosario Dawson ) et al drives the story to its conclusion . The movie is bogged down with far too many car chases and absurd crashes and disasters , but the idea of terrorism in a new guise is an interesting one . But for all the tense mood of the movie , the audience is doused with a syrupy sentimental ending which all but negates the adrenalin flow the film had . LaBeouf and Monaghan make an interesting coupling , given the little dialog they have to create fleshed out characters . Not a great movie , but not a bad movie for thriller fans . Grady Harp
Stalking Life	MISTER FOE ( aka HALLAM FOE ) is another dark film about buried pain and insecurities , much like director David Mackenzie's YOUNG ADAM . Mackenzie is also responsible for the crackling screenplay adapted from the novel by Peter Jinks , the story of a young lad named Hallam ( Jamie Bell ) damaged by his mother's death / ? suicide to the point where he separates himself from the world by living in a tree house , observing his father ( Ciarán Hinds ) in his too rapid replacement of Hallam's mother with the dangerous Verity ( Claire Forlani ) . A bizarre 17-year-old , Hallam attacks his fears and the world dressed in a manner of beast like costumes , all to assuage his grief for his mother's death . When Verity's behavior drives Hallam from his elegant home , he retreats to Edinburgh , becoming a boy of the streets . One day he spies a woman named Kate ( Sophia Myles ) who greatly resembles his dead mother and he begins stalking her , spying on her in every conceivable way until he convinces her to hire him in her hotel as a kitchen porter . Proximity feeds obsession and Hallam discovers that Kate is having an affair with a married hotel executive , the result of which is a clash with reality , and Hallam must confront his Oedipal desires with his coming to grips with the reality of his grief for this deceased mother . The discovery he makes with Kate transfers to his relationship with his own family and opens doors for growth rather than maintaining his jail - like mental anguish . The story is bizarre and very dark at times , but the performance by Jamie Bell , well accompanied by those of Hinds , Forlani , Myles et al , make this tale of coming of age fascinating . The art direction ( Caroline Grebbell ) , cinematography ( Giles Nuttgens ) and musical score ( as concocted by Matt Biffa from performers such as Future Pilot A . K . A . ) enhance the production - maintaining the high standards set by Mackenzie . Hallam is a lad we grow to love despite his kooky behavior : few other actors could inhabit this role with the élan of the considerably talented Jamie Bell . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Little French Who-Done-It with Twists and Spice	' Le Boiteux : Baby Blues ' is a sassy little French mystery made for French television in 1999 and is just now showing up on the shelves of local DVD rental stores . It is a fun little diversion with lots of French flavor and has a cast that is not only secure but plays this little tale with a sense of flair and tongue-in-cheek charm . We meet Lieutenant Deveure ( Vincent Winterhalter ) in the black and white backgrounds during the opening credits , watching him chase a criminal only to be shot in the ankle , an injury that leaves him crippled for life , requiring a leg brace and funky shoe and a limp . After the credits the blue-eyed lieutenant and his partner Granier ( the always superb François Berléand ) are investigating the discovery of a baby skeleton buried in the basement of an old home in the little town of Saint-Paray . Living in the curious house is a newly married couple Blandine ( Audrey Tautou ) and Patrick ( Frédéric Gorny ) Piancet , strange little people who initiate some of the twists the lieutenant must face in solving the mystery of the buried skeleton . Multiple characters are tangentially involved with the house - former owners and renters and contractors - each with sufficient reason to be implicated . Odd events eliminate some suspects and Deveure and Granier ultimately uncover a ring of criminal history that sets the little town on edge : all is not what it seems , even in the provincial villages ! The manner of telling the story as directed by Paule Zajderman , who also wrote the screenplay based on Pascale Basset-Chercot's novel , is what brings the enchantment to the film . The cast is very strong ( this is an early film for Tautou ) and aside from Tautou and Berléand few of the actors are recognized outside of France . But for a mystery ' Blue Eyes ' still bubbles like champagne ! Grady Harp
A Film Noir with Panache	Walter Salles has proved himself a formidable director with his successes in ' Central Station ' , Behind the Sun ' , and The Motorcycle Diaries ' : he is an artist unafraid to approach unfamiliar terrain in his growth as a director , yet always proving that the most important element in making a good film is to explore the characters more than just the atmosphere . Those who find faults with DARK WATER seem to be concentrating on critiques of special effects and manufactured terror machines . Where Salles succeeds in this adaptation of the original Japanese film by Kôji Suzuki ( novel ) and Hideo Nakata ( director ) is his concentration on developing interesting and strange people , characters with whom we can identify and thus whose encounters with the ' unknown ' feel more intensely internal . The story has been related ad infinitum : Dahlia ( Jennifer Connelly ) and her daughter Cecelia ( Ariel Gade ) move from Manhattan away from her recently estranged husband Kyle ( Dougray Scott ) to a creaky apartment building on Roosevelt Island to the benefit of real estate agent Mr . Murray ( John C . Reilly ) and under the suspicious eye of building super Veeck ( Pete Postlethwaite ) . The building and the constant rain are ominous from the start but soon strange events happen that suggest either mental decline of both Dahlia and Ceci or the presence of ghosts . The title of the film describes not only the bleak atmospheric element that drives the story but also the netherworld that admixes surrealistic phenomena with psychosis . Characters enter the story naturally and comfortably : Jeff Platzer ( Tim Roth ) offers his legal defense of Dahlia in a manner that belies his mode of existence ; Ceci's Teacher ( Camryn Manheim ) brings reality testing to the fuzzy world of imaginary friends ; Alison Sealy-Smith as a supervisor where Dahlia seeks work is one of Dahlia's few kind encounters . Though the pacing seems slow it does march like the descent of a mind into the unknown and Salles manages that well . The film's cinematography by Affonso Beato maintains the grunge effect that intensifies the terror and Angelo Badalamenti has provided a musical score that bears just the right amount of supportive suspense . But as with other Salles movies the work is supported by truly fine acting and once again Jennifer Connelly proves she can convey much with very little . Give this film a chance , without comparisons to other films of the genre , and see what Walter Salles can do with a story . Grady Harp
World War II from the European View	Writer and Director John Duigan has added to his cinematic stature with this recent film about the interrelated responses of three countries - England , France , Spain - to the early phases of WW II and in doing so gives some inadvertent insight into how the continent was so endangered by the little known bad boy Hitler in the years leading up to the horror of a second World War . The title seems very appropriate - taken from the quip of ' Head in the clouds , Feet on the ground ' - as the lead character Gilda ( a radiantly beautiful Charlize Theron ) seems to float above all of the reality of warring struggles in 1933 , focusing her life on paramours , expensive clothes , and ' dangerous liaisons ' with a varied assortment of men , all the while keeping a firm stance on needs of her strangely disjointed life . Indeed , the opening of the film finds Gilda in need of shelter from a night's fling with a Cambridge lover and she knocks on the door of a poor struggling Irish student Guy ( Stuart Townsend ) , thus beginning a lasting affair that coasts through the entire story . Guy eventually follows Gilda to Paris where she is a popular photographer living with her gallerist , but also living with her lesbian lover Mia ( Penelope Cruz ) . Gilda , Guy , and Mia become a triptych and it is only the impact of the rise of fascism in Spain ( Mia's home ) that separates the ménage a trois : idealistic Guy and compassionate Mia are off to fight Franco while Gilda is left behind to admit to the encroaching threat of Nazis in France and enter into her own version of involvement . How these three weather the war and resolve their varied degrees of complicity provides the film's finale . The cast is strong , the settings are gorgeous ( in all three countries ) as captured by cinematographer Paul Sarossy , and the musical score by Terry Frewer introduces a potential talent for film composition ( while borrowing heavily from French cabaret songs , symphonic music by Edward Elgar , and pieces of Francis Poulenc ) . But the overall reason for enjoying this rather long film is the interplay of Theron , Townsend and Cruz in a variety of richly sensuous vignettes . Well worth watching . Grady Harp
The Da Vinci Code : The Movie	After all the hoopla and controversy parting the waters between the religious right and Catholic Church and the avid devotees of Dan Brown's multi-million dollar success book , the movie version is finally here . THE DA VINCI CODE makes a good movie - and that is enough . Director Ron Howard has assembled a good international cast , trusted the screenplay to Akiva Goldsman , and in fine Hollywood style has transformed an interesting premise of a story from Dan Brown's interested though unsophisticatedly written blockbuster into a suspense thriller . The story of a murder in the Louvre leading a former flatfoot detective turned writer of symbology and a French cryptographer on a chase involving the Vatican , the Opus Dei society , and the Priory guarding the Holy Grail is full of terrific visualizations of some of the encrypted secrets of Brown's novel and in the end the movie allows the viewer to follow the interesting story much more easily than did the book . The settings are magnificent ( cinematography by Salvatore Totino ) , the musical score by Hans Zimmer sweeps the story along embracing all aspects of the atmosphere , and the visual effects department has done a fine job with some tough tasks . The actors take their characters in stride , given that many of them are over the top figures : Ian McKellen will satisfy every reader's vision of Sir Leigh Teabing ; Paul Bettany is appropriately crazy as Silas ; Jean Reno offers a Captain Fache who manages to hold things together ; Audrey Tatou turns a fine spin as the all-important Sophie Neveu ; and Tom Hanks sleepwalks through his rather innocuous conception of Robert Langdon . And the ending is a rather sappy sellout not found in the book - but this is Hollywood . . . This film may set box office records - which seems to be the point in making it - and serves to prove what good PR work can do for a movie . Many will put down ' The Da Vinci Code ' because of religious reasons or other reasons , but in the end it is a just a good story well told - not a great movie but an entertaining one . Recommendation : a good 2 hour diversion , but not one to rush out to see until the crowds dwindle a bit . Grady Harp
Tadeo Garcia : A Voice to Hear , A Talent to Applaud	Gradually movie audiences are turning more serious attention to the little Independent films for quality and meaning in story and in style and in brave confrontation with issues outside the perimeter of the Hollywood style films . A fine example is this remarkable film by student Tadeo Garcia whose first year in film school produced the outline of this little gem of a movie and whose courageous ' first film ' gained the respect of screenwriter Roger B . Domain who helped him transfer the skeletal story into a full length film ON THE DOWNLOW , all on a budget of $8 , 000 . ! From the opening scenes we can sense that we are watching a love story , but it is a story of forbidden love : Angel ( Michael Cortez ) is escaping his Chicago street gang with the help of Isaac ( Tony Sancho ) and the two warmly human , supportive , sensitive young youths flee to the territory of Isaac's low neighborhood where Isaac convinces Angel to give up his allegiance to his former gang and pledge to Isaac's gang , a rasty group led by Reaper ( Donato Cruz ) . Very gradually and with incredible decorum Garcia reveals to us that Angel and Isaac are lovers , the only time the union is shown physically is a prolonged kiss in an open night alley , an event which will trigger the force of destiny : it is enough as the scene is passionate yet gracefully not graphic . The boys ' mothers plead with them to not carry guns and to avoid gang alliance , but at the same time they lovingly accept their sons ' sexuality . But life is as it is on the streets of south side Chicago and Angel is accepted into Isaac's gang , having to undergo the cruel initiation beating that accompanies his joining . Reaper is later informed that Angel is an ex-gang member of the rival gang and Isaac is the one Reaper determines should kill the offending Angel . The two lovers try to escape Chicago but the inevitable happens and the ending is tragic but with undertones that are subtly captured by Garcia's eye , mind , camera , and heart : the final confrontation scene ends with our enabled view of evidence that other members of the gang share the same ' on the downlow ' as Angel and Isaac . Not only are Tony Sancho and Michael Cortez wholly believable in their dichotomous roles , but the entire cast is filled with raw yet gifted talent : Felipe Camacho as the Priest , Beatriz Jamaica as Angel's mother and Carmen Cenko as Isaac's mother , Donato Cruz as Reaper , Adelina Quinones ( a terrific screen presence ) as Laura , and all the youngsters who convincingly bring the gang members to life . Yes , there are evidences of low budget constraints , but the overwhelming success of the story of two young men in love against the backdrop of hopelessness of crime is brilliant evidence that Tadeo Garcia is a gifted talent to watch . Recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
An Intelligent Script from a Pulitzer Prize Novelist Delivered by a Top Cast !	THE REPUBLIC OF LOVE is yet another fine film from Canada based on Canadian Pulitzer Prize Winner ( for ' The Stone Diaries ' ) Carol Shields ' novel by the same name , and written for the screen and directed by the gifted Deepa Mehta ( ' Earth ' , ' Fire ' , ' Water ' , etc ) . It is a satisfying story about the human boundaries set by / for love and how those ' republics ' touch and clash and interact . Tom Avery ( the very gifted actor Bruce Greenwood ) was an illegitimate child , raised by a homemaker class as a teaching lesson in how young brides to be should learn the skills of tending house , who has grown up , married three times out of a need for belonging and for being loved , and is currently unattached , making his living as a night talk show host helping the lonely hearts . Into his life steps the beautiful museum curator , currently immersed in a Mermaid exhibition , by the name of Fay ( Emilia Fox ) who remains single because of her exceptionally high demands for a partner . The two meet , fall immediately in love much to their individual surprise , and proceed to court and encounter other couples ( especially their parents ) who seem to hold the winning medals for perfect marriage . Fay's parents ( James Fox is Richard , the father ) have just celebrated their anniversary when Richard abruptly decides to leave his wife . Fay runs to her mother's rescue , leaving Tom alone and the apparent brunt of Fay's disillusion of marriage . The changes that occur cause Tom to reflect on his history of marrying too often in unions that have not met with success . How Fay and Tom ultimately resolve the abutments of their personal republics is the part of the story that carries the film . The entire cast includes some of Canada's finest actors and the film is solidly directed by Mehta . There are aspects that disrupt the flow of the story , the main one being the incessant and very loud East Indian music that seems wholly out of place and is at best distracting ( the score was written by Talvin Singh ) . Mehta also elects to throw in some bizarre cutesy animation at the end that for this viewer cheapens the story . But flaws aside , this is a fine film graced by the presence of Bruce Greenwood and Emilia Fox . Recommended entry from Film Movement . Grady Harp
Hilarious Romp Through Unlikely Subject Material	Like so many others this viewer waited for the DVD release of DEATH AT A FUNERAL , thinking that a comic take on a potentially morbid subject might not be very entertaining . Couldn't have been more wrong ! This is the kind of humor the Brits do so well - intelligent , expertly delivered dialog and action that can make even the most unlikely situations hilarious . Writer Dean Craig and Director Frank Oz have created a farce and have put this tongue in cheek situation in the hands of some the best of the British actors . The result is a spinning top that only gradually allows the viewer to breath from laughing during the clever final credits . The father of a very dysfunctional family has died and son Daniel ( Matthew MacFadyen ) and his wife Jane ( Keeley Hawes ) have agreed to host the funeral . After the mortuary first delivers the wrong corpse the tone is set for all the wrong things to happen . The arriving family is a bizarre clan of characters - a novelist living beyond his means in New York ( Rupert Graves ) , a man who unwittingly mistakes an hallucinogen for Valium and ends up on a trip that entertains all , a ' drug distributor ' , a crotchety old man with toilet problems , and the usual stuffy and goofy associates that so often populate the British comedies . And when it seems as though little else could support sanity , up pops a figure form the US ( Peter Dinklage ) with a secret about the deceased and proceeds to cause a situation that becomes the focal point of this zany funeral . Saying too much about each of the characters diminishes the surprises that abound . Were it not for the fact that each of the actors in the film is ' top drawer ' this little movie could have become mawkish or tasteless , but this cast and director have produced one of the most refreshingly funny films of the past year . Grady Harp
Going Back to Look Forward	DÉJÀ VU is a riveting film about time travel in tandem with crime investigation that works on every level . Tony Scott is back in his element as the top director of intrigue / thrillers . Working with a challenging script by Bill Marsilii and Terry Rossio that asks the viewer to accept the possibility of time travel , Scott is able to make the story work clearly despite the interplay of mixing the viewing of the past form the vantage of the present with placing a character into that past to alter it . The setting is New Orleans , still suffering from the devastation of Katrina , where a ferryboat explodes killing hundreds of people . ATF ( Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms ) agent Doug Carlin ( Denzel Washington ) is brought into the investigation of the ' accident ' when he discovers elements that suggest the explosion was the act of a terrorist . Agent Pryzwarra ( a very fat Val Kilmer ) and his team of secretive experts ( Adam Goldberg , Elden Henson , Erika Alexander and Bruce Greenwood ) introduce Doug to a highly sophisticated machine that coordinates cameras and heat detectors from satellites and security cameras that is able to mix images and reveal the past - a tricky means of examining a crime scene ex post facto to capture the perpetrators . Spurred on with Doug's discovery of a beautiful female body ( Paula Patton ) washed up from the water before the explosion , Doug examines all the evidence , observing the replay of the days leading up to the explosion , and finally asks to be placed in a time machine to return to the scene in hopes of altering the inevitable and unmasking the terrorist ( Jim Caviezel ) . How this occurs forms the climax of the film , and while many viewers may have trouble swallowing the time travel aspect , the action is so tight and the technique of creating the incident so convincing that few viewers will fail to be wholly involved . The cast is excellent , beginning with Denzel Washington as a terrific lead to the work of Jim Caviezel and all the more minor roles in between . The musical score by Harry Gregson-Williams and the cinematography by DP Paul Cameron heighten the tension of this exciting suspense movie . Grady Harp
Similar Sagas	THE DUCHESS ( based on Amanda Foreman's book " Georgiana , Duchess of Devonshire " which in turn was based on historical fact ) has been well adapted for the screen by Jeffrey Hatcher , Anders Thomas Jensen and writer / director Saul Dibb . What was basically snubbed by the critics of the theatrical release as a ' fashion show with little else going for it ' turns out to be a quite beautiful period drama . The fact that the story is based on the life of the outspoken feminist and political thinker in the late 1700s - Georgiana , Duchess of Devonshire - who happens to be an ancestor of Princess Di whose life in many ways paralleled the Duchess , makes it more interesting than most costume dramas . And yet , even without the obvious parallel in stories , this film stands well on its own , due to a smart script and a fine cast . Lady Spencer ( Charlotte Rampling ) coaxes the marriage of her beautiful daughter Georgiana ( Keira Knightley ) to marry the very wealthy Duke of Devonshire ( Ralph Fiennes ) , a rather boring dog lover whose only interest in ' purchasing ' a wife is to gain a male heir . Caught up in the dignity and lush homes and gardens of the Duke , the new Duchess charms all who see her - and the manner in which Keira Knightley wears the vast number of gorgeous sculpted costumes gives credence to her appearance popularity and enhances her personal popularity as she looks beyond the surface to the hearts of the people around her . When the Duchess is unable to produce live boy children ( two stillborns don't count , nor do the two daughters she births ) , The Duke turns to dalliances both with the household maids and to the Duchess ' newest friend Lady Bess ( Hayley Atwell ) : the Duchess seeks solace with her childhood love Charles Grey ( Dominic Cooper ) and the tension in the household comes to a breaking point . British etiquette rules , and the ' wife ' must bear up under the pressure of society , a position the Duchess obeys but continues her popularity with the politics and social comments of the times - quite a daring feat for those revolutionary years in England , America , and France and the world in general . How this singularly intelligent woman copes provides the resolution of the story . Keira Knightley is ravishingly beautiful and continues to impress with her sensitive acting skills . The contributions by Ralph Fiennes , Charlotte Rampling , Dominic Cooper and Hayley Atwell bring finely honed characterizations to life . Rachel Portman is responsible for the musical score that fits the production like a glove . There is , then , far more to this film than a panorama of elegant costumes . It is deserving of a larger audience . Grady Harp
A Quietly Disturbing Character Study Made with Style	Murilo Benecio is a young Brazilian actor who just keeps turning out fine , solid and very different character roles . As the leading character is this well made film by director Jose Henrique Fonseca from a script written by his father Rubem Fonseca in turn based on the novel ' O Matador ' by Patricia Melo , Benecio molds a memorable portrait of a man of low self esteem who is strangely and inadvertently raised to the level of hero in the most bizarre of circumstances . The setting is Rio de Janiero and Maiquel is a loner looking for an identity . On a bet he decides to have his dark hair bleached by the beautiful beautician Cledir ( Claudia Abreu ) and finds that as he steps back into his world he is the object of notice . After a cruel teasing by thug Suel ( Wagner Moura ) he buys a gun and almost unwittingly kills Suel who dies in the arms of his girlfriend Erica ( Natalia Lage ) . Despite Maiquel's fears of his arrest he finds that the neighborhood rewards him for ridding them of a criminal and Maiquel becomes a hero . Not only is he rewarded with gifts ( including a pet pig he names Bill after watching Bill Clinton's visit to Brazil on TV ! ) , he is also given free dental work by Dr . Carvalho ( Jorge Doria ) in exchange for agreeing to kill an enemy of the dentist . More and more people ask Maiquel to whack bad people making Maiguel's new blond persona a hit man and man of the year . How he ultimately begins to spiral downward when his life is complicated by a marriage and family and holding a regular job forces him to initiate his own choices of violence and return to his original hair color to alter his destiny ! If the story sounds odd , it is really a depiction of life in the city of Rio where the police are impotent to control the violence that prevails . Maiquel becomes the Robin Hood / Batman type who brings a degree of safety to his community . Wisely Benecio holds our attention and our compassion as he performs his many murders , creating a man in whom we can believe and applaud despite the grim things he does . The cast is uniformly fine and the cinematography by Breno Silveira and the musical score by Dado Villa-Lobos ( an important guitar player , relation to composer Heitor Villa-Lobos unknown ! ) is classy . This is yet another fine film from Brazil , in Portuguese , and one that deserves wide attention - especially for Murilo Benecio's superb performance . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Tautou Soufflé	PRICELESS ( Hors de Prix ) manages to puff along on its rather slim story line and keep the audience interested primarily due to the presence of Audrey Tautou . Though the script by Benoît Graffin and Pierre Salvador is loaded with good lines and despite the fact that director Pierre Salvadori manages to keep the appearance of the film full of glossy fun , the story thins after the first hour and pleads for some tighter editing . The location is the French Riviera and the action takes place in the elegant Biarritz Hotel where we discover Irène ( Audrey Tautou ) as a gold digger whose career focus is finding a man of wealth who can support her expensive tastes . Tautou has never looked more glamorous than she does here and we can understand why the sugar daddies of the world vie for her attention . While preparing for her birthday celebration , Irène takes too long dressing and her current paramour falls asleep . Not wanting to be alone on her special day she goes in all her resplendent glory to the hotel bar . There she meets Jean ( Gad Elmaleh ) who happens to be the bartender and hotel employee but who Irène mistakes for a man of wealth . Their mutual attraction , despite the mismatch of perceptions , results in a wild night of love - Jean being careful not to allow Irène to know of his true status as a poor worker . A year passes and the two meet again under similar circumstances and as the true identities are unveiled Irène teaches Jean how to be a gigolo , only to have the tables turn in a predictable way . This is a bit of French fluff and goes on far too long , but there is Tautou on the screen , beautiful and buoyant and irresistible - and that makes up for a lot . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
One of the Old Standards	It's hard to believe that this little 1988 film has endured in popularity for so long . It is a simple story of three ' sisters ' in the small fishing village of Mystic , CT who have just graduated high school , work as waitress in the town Mystic Pizza parlor , and face decisions about the future of their lives . There are three less than fairytale romances with three male characters of varying potential as partners and it is the ' coming of age ' in a small Portuguese clan that sparks the tenderness and the sadness of this story written by Amy Holden Jones and directed by Donald Petrie . One of the most interesting aspects of this low budget film is how it catapulted Julia Roberts and Matt Damon ( who plays such a bit part he nearly goes unnoticed ) to fame , reinforced the careers of fine character actors Conchata Ferrell , Lili Taylor and Vincent D'Onofrio while pushing the then promising Annabeth Gish , William R . Moses and Adam Storke over into TV land roles . The film is a bit of nostalgia for a better time , has charm and innocence , and will always be one of those movies everyone who is a film collector will keep in their library for times when a return to simple little movies just makes you feel good . Grady Harp
Vengeance in an Updated Greek Tragedy Set in Brazil	As Três Marias ( Three Marias ) is about as theatrical as a film can be without confining itself to a stage . Creative director Alusio Abranches , responding to the script by Heitor Dhalia and Wilson Freire , has elected to film this story of gory murder and revenge incorporating screen visuals that transport the contemporary setting into the realm of magical realism . And it works very well - if the viewer is willing to sacrifice linear storytelling to the metaphor-laden technique . The film begins with an extended silent view of a man and a woman in conversation beneath a bizarre rock formation : Firmino Santos Guerra ( Carlos Vereza ) is obviously trying to talk Filomena Capadocio ( Marieta Severo ) into not leaving him . Jump forward in time and the murders of three men are enacted in the most grisly of manners - one is hanged by his own intestines , on has his eyes and heart torn out , and one is burned to death - all under the familial guidance of the Santos Guerra family . The deaths represent the husband and two sons of Filomena and when she is told of the events , she stifles her tears with building hate and calls her three daughters to her home - Maria Francisca ( Julia Lemmertz ) Maria Rosa ( Maria Luisa Mendonca ) , and Maria Pia ( Luiza Mariani ) . Each daughter is given the obligation to hire a hit-man to deliver the head of Firmino to Filomena . The story then proceeds to show the engaging of Chief Tenorio ( Tuca Andrada ) bitten by a rabid dog , Ze das Cobras ( Enrique Diaz ) who never has spoken with a woman and uses a ' translator ' Catrevagem ( Lazaro Ramos ) to communicate , and imprisoned murderer Jesusino Cruz ( Wagner Moura ) whose protocol for killing is always to cut his victims in half . With this trio of hit men the three Marias set out to accomplish their mother's vengeance and how this plays out is the essence of the film . Shot in stark colors and contrasts and accompanied by an operatic music score , the film succeeds as a mood piece . The actors are all quite fine despite the fact they are playing archetypes rather than credible human beings . For a heavy dose of excellent Brazilian classical theater this film is sure to please . Grady Harp
Early André Téchiné , Early Juliette Binoche	André Téchiné made this 1985 film RENDEZ-VOUS before his promising career was established , giving us such fine films as My Favorite Season , The Innocents , The Wild Reeds , Beach Café , Alice and Martin , etc . The sensitivity to character development is tightly wound in this work but some of the finesse that followed his later works is missing . In the end we are left wondering a bit about what happened to almost everyone . Nina ( Juliette Binoche in her first film role ) has traveled to Paris from her small home in Toulouse to try her hand at acting and to live the wild life that has been unavailable to her in Toulouse . She beds nearly every man she encounters and acts bit parts in small theaters , barely eking out an existence . Tired of one night stands and sharing quarters with others , she sets out to find her own apartment , stopping in to a realtors office where she encounters Paulot ( Wadeck Stanczak ) who is immediately smitten with her sensual good looks and manner . Having no place to stay Nina agrees to spend a few days with Paulot in a flat shared with the hauntingly strange Quentin ( Lambert Wilson ) . Nina is oddly attracted to Quentin and is somewhat put off by the fact that Quentin is an actor in a sex theater . We discover Quentin narrowly escaped death some time back when the actress playing Juliet to his Romeo was killed . Nina has an approach / avoidance conflict with Quentin , all the while fending off offers by the pathetic Paulot to care for her . Quentin is killed in a car accident , Nina meets the elderly director Scrutzler ( Jean-Louis Trintignant in a splendid cameo role ) who promises her the role of Juliet in his casting of the Shakespeare drama , and her career as an actress seems to be launched . Full of self doubt and fear stimulated by the ghost-like appearances of the dead Quentin , Nina prepares for the role , copes with Paulot's advances , shares a flat with him , and is finally left in the stage wings with her focus on becoming an actress challenged with her needs for physical and stable love . And we are left there . Juliette Binoche is very fine in this her ' maiden voyage ' and it is a happy finding that she is far more beautiful ( as well as a far better actress ) in her current more mature state . Lambert Wilson gives a fine performance , finding the line between lurid sexuality and lonely afterlife ghost a position he easily treads . The film definitely has moments but it is only a hint ( and a strong one ) of just what to expect form the gifted André Téchiné . Not bad for a twenty year old film ! Grady Harp
The Harsh Realities for Soldiers Coming Home	JACKNIFE is a fine adaptation of Stephen Metcalfe's play ' Strange Snow ' ( the screenplay was also written by Metcalfe ) , sensitively directed by David Hugh Jones , that explores the too frequently forgotten effect of battle on veterans damaged permanently by the heinous cruelties of war . It is especially poignant to return to this 1989 film now as we watch the soldiers returning from the war in Iraq and the raw treatment they are receiving in our Veterans ' Hospitals . Three friends went off to the Vietnam War together and only two returned alive : the problem is that while both men suffered in battle the one David ' Highschool ' Flannigan ( Ed Harris ) is so severely damaged by posttraumatic stress syndrome that he ' exists ' in a drunken vacuum with his very plain schoolteacher sister Martha ( Kathy Baker ) . As David deteriorates his buddy Joseph ' Jacknife ' Megessey ( Robert De Niro ) returns to the town in an attempt to help his friend . In the course of events Jacknife at first offers succor to Martha and eventually the two date - at a Prom Martha must attend - and at that prom drunken David completely falls apart , destroying relics in the school and terrifying the townspeople and students . Jacknife makes Dave relive the moment in Vietnam when they lost their buddy and in doing so brings David to the point where he can begin his climb toward recovery . And the long-suffering Martha finds her needs tended by Jacknife , too . All three actors give astonishingly fine performances : Ed Harris offers one of his most fully realized roles while De Niro and Baker maintain the high standards set by their careers . More people should help resurrect this all but forgotten film as it is a brittle reminder of the damages our wars bring to the men who fight them and to the families who receive them after battle's end . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Exploring the Inner Turmoil of the Outwardly Placid Mind	Guilt and Redemption are the pervasive themes of this quirky , disturbing , very fine film from Shohei Imamura . The consequences of the instantaneous loss of control molds this story in the way such life happenstances unfold - slowly - and Imamura knows how to take us with him in this strange tale , pausing here and there for the surreal , dreamlike sequences that can and do alter our perceptions of reality . Takuro Yamashita ( Kôji Yakusho ) is a quietly married blue-collar worker who spends some evenings fishing for sport and food , his passive wife Emiko ( Chiho Terada ) sending him off with boxed lunches . Takuro receives an anonymous letter that states his wife is having an affair while he slips away to fish . Incredulous , Takuro returns early form his nocturnal fishing to find his wife engaged in passionate sex and Takuro stabs her to death , then bicycles to the police station and turns himself in for the murder of Emiko . He is imprisoned for eight years and conforms to the rigid life of the incarcerated , his only companion is a pet eel with whom he feels he can communicate . Upon release from prison , Takuro is placed under the supervision of a kindly priest who helps him start a barbershop , living a quiet secluded life , his only friends being his pet eel and a strange character who has set up a field station to attract friendly aliens from outer space ! All is calm until he encounters Keiko ( Misa Shimizu ) who closely resembles his murdered wife and indeed is suicidal from her own slashes in an attempt to negate the genetic threat of her mentally disturbed mother and her own consignation with an underworld lover Eiji Dojima ( Tomorowo Taguchi ) , a man who holds her under his control to gain the mad mother's money committed to his evil schemes . Takuro saves Keiko from her suicide attempt and the priest encourages him to take on Keiko as an assistant . The barbershop does well and Takuro and Keiko make good business partners . Takuro is emotionally dead over his guilt for the murder of his wife and refuses to entertain the idea of opening himself to Keiko's loving advances . There are too many similarities between the dead Emiko and the frightened Keiko . Yet when all of the forces collide in the climax of the film , Takuro realizes how much of his past is mixed with fantasy / nightmare and , equally , how much his present is dependent on his interaction with Keiko ( now pregnant with Dojima's baby ) , the priest , his sci-fi friend and the forces who would destroy Keiko and his quiet existence . The ending , somewhat marred by a keystone kops like fight , reveals the cracks in Takuro's mental armor and the possibility for redemption unfolds in a tender way . There are many levels of interpretation to this fable and to explore each of them would rob the first-time viewer of this little film of the pleasure of the chess game Imamura sets for us . The acting is solid , the night scenes are lovely , and the day scenes are as visually chaotic as the real world in which we live . There could be improvements in the editing , definitely in the musical score and in the camera work . But those are minor blemishes in this film that engages the mind in the challenge of entering a new mode of thought . A strange little film , this , and not for everyone . Grady Harp
Psyching Out the Pros	Not sure how this film did at the box office during Theatrical Release - probably well , as it delivers a lot of grisly violence , loud music , brink of death moments , and pounding suspense . Reduced to the TV screen size on DVD , MINDHUNTERS becomes a psychological thriller with a strong cast but with a screenplay / plot that in attempting to be an intellectual maze has problems with credible continuity . The premise of the story is strong : every human wants to believe he / she is intelligent and governed by free will when in fact we act according to ingrained and predictable personality traits . Resident instructor Jake Harris ( Val Kilmer in one of his briefest roles in film ) takes a group of FBI Profiler trainees to a remote island for their ultimate test , gives the some parameters as to how to profile a serial killer , then leaves them to their own devices . Each of the characters has an Achilles ' heel and one by one each of the profilers is killed according to an enigmatic plan based on timed intervals . It is up to the group to work against time to discover the identity of the mastermind killer . Each of the deaths of these astute profilers grows more ghastly until the final confrontation of the remaining ones who escape the serial killer's plan . Among the group of neo-profilers are such fine actors as Christian Slater , LL Cool J ( who makes a truly impressive screen presence ) , Jonny Lee Miller , Clifton Collins , Jr ( craftily confined to a wheelchair ) , Eion Bailey , Will Kemp , Kathryn Morris , and Patricia Velasquez . They make the most of the scripted outlines of characters and before each one falls prey like a domino trick to the schemer , we understand their Achilles ' heels - and that is praiseworthy in this screenplay . Cameron Crowe recently wrote about movie music , whether it adds or detracts from the film . This score by Tuomas Kantelinen falls solidly into the latter category : the music together with the sound effects of the ongoing murders drowns dialogue and patience ! But if thrillers frosted with gore is your bag , this film is sure to please . Grady Harp
A Period Spectacle from the Always Inventive Phillipe de Broca !	ON GUARD delivers . Better than almost all other French swordplay films , this film version of the Paul Féval novel ' Le Bossu ' has been aptly adapted for the screen by de Broca , Jean Cosmos , and Jérôme Tonnerre and under Phillipe de Broca's keen eye for detail and entertainment it effervesces on the screen . The story is solid but predictable : a young swordsman Lagardère ( a brilliant Daniel Auteuil ) falls into the service of the Duke of Nevers ( Vincent Perez in a dashing role ) to recover the Duke's daughter Aurore ( Marie Gillain ) . But the evil Gonzague ( Fabrice Luchini ) kills the Duke and the remainder of the non-stop romance involves the revenge and eventual love story of Lagardère and Aurore . de Broca's style is lushly authentic for the period yet he manages to always infuse his story with light touches of comedy , lush lighting and spectacular photography . The cast is uniformly excellent . This is one of those ' escapist movies ' that is bound to entertain and please even the most critical audience ! In French with English subtitles . Recommended . Grady Harp
Fragments of Coicidence and Connection	Though there have been many films of late that address the issues of the isolation of the individual in a society increasingly settling for homogeneity , few have the honesty and simplicity of presentation as Alfredo De Villa's ADRIFT IN MANHATTAN . Perhaps the reason this film works so well is that instead of dealing with the usual tropes , De Villa restricts his story to three individuals who are suffering isolation in the noise and autonomy of New York City and are thus ' adrift ' in a life that seems flat and without a beacon of hope . The story De Villa weaves is one of interaction of these characters by almost serendipitous incidents , moments that change their lives - at least for a while . Teenager Simon Colon ( Victor Rasuk ) lives with his overbearing mother Marta ( Marlene Forte ) and gets through his life almost without speaking , working in a camera shop , spending his idle hours photographing people in the park . Tommaso Pensara ( Dominic Chianese ) is an elderly painter and music lover who lives alone and supports himself by being the ' mail boy ' in a large firm : his loneliness is heightened when he discovers he has macular degeneration and will go blind . The physician who makes his diagnosis is Dr . Rose Phipps ( Heather Graham ) who is grieving from the recent death of her 2-year old child and is unable to continue her marriage to literature professor Mark Phipps ( William Baldwin ) . The threads of coincidence begin to tie these people together when Simon begins to photograph Rose in a manner that resembles stalking , when Tommaso notices and desires and older lady at his workplace , Isabel Parades ( Elizabeth Peña ) and is encouraged by Dr Rose to share his potential blindness with this friend , and when Rose explores the attention Simon bestows on her , filling an emotional need for both parties . Naturally the development of these intersections is more complex but at the same time the manner in which they develop is very tender and gentle . Some viewers may find the film meandering a bit too much : this is not linear storytelling but rather shifts in incidents and moods and gradual changes that occur among these simple but needy people , much like the coincidences and random kindnesses occur to the sensitive eye . The cast is very fine and the cinematography and musical score sustain the mood of the piece . This film requires involvement on the part of the viewer , and that involvement has its rewards . Grady Harp
Expatriots and Survival Explode in Shanghai	The team of Ismail Merchant , James Ivory , and Kazuo Ishiguro will unfortunately never offer another special film . THE WHITE COUNTESS is all the more meaningful as it was their last effort . While many viewers find this 138 minute film boring and plot less , there is a flavor here that could only be captured by this team . Shanghai , 1936 . While the disruptions in global existence created by World War I have created fearful evacuees of many countries to the old city of Shanghai , those émigrés survive by any means possible . Todd Jackson ( Ralph Fiennes ) is an American diplomat who lost his wife , daughter , and eyesight in an accident and lives his blind existence visiting the music bars for solace . His dream is to own a music / dance / entertainment club and his fortune is changed by winning at horse racing . He encounters Countess Sofia Belinskya ( Natasha Richardson ) , a woman of Russian royalty who has fled Russia with the fall of the Czars with her daughter Katya ( Madeleine Daly ) , and her aunts Princess Vera Belinskya ( Vanessa Redgrave ) and Olga Belinskya ( Lynn Redgrave ) and Greshenka ( Madeleine Potter ) who live in a tiny loathsome apartment and are dependent entirely upon Sofia's income as a dance hostess in a seedy club . In their building lives Mr . Feinstein ( Allan Corduner ) and his Jewish family who likewise have sought asylum in Shanghai and who proffers kindness to Sofia's plight . Jackson's winnings afford him the luxury of opening ' The White Countess ' club at the encouragement of his Japanese friend Mr . Matsuda ( Hiroyuki Sanada ) and realizing Sofia's dignity and needs , Jackson makes Sofia the sophisticated hostess of his club . The dance of pre-World War II grows from a distant echo into a reality with the insidious growth in numbers of Japanese soldiers and soon the truth of the Japanese imperialism intentions becomes evident . The émigrés begin to escape Shanghai and in the midst of Sofia's family's escape to Hong Kong her aunts make it known that Sofia must stay in Shanghai : her work as a dance hall hostess would smear their reputation as they return to a position of royalty ! Jackson and Feinstein intervene to prevent Sofia's loss of her daughter and the slowly evolving relationship between Jackson and Sofia is clarified . There is plenty of plot for the active mind in this story , and in the style of Merchant Ivory productions the story unfolds gradually , layer upon layer , in a study of atmosphere embroidered by words . The setting is stunningly beautiful to see , and the unfolding of the story is as painfully slow as the life of displaced people in a foreign city can be . Times change , moods alter , events metamorphose and at the end of the film the events of the story are well braided . Natasha Richardson is radiant as Sofia , a woman of style who graciously does what it takes to survive . The Redgrave sisters exude the embarrassment of being bereft of their regal breeding in the squalor of Shanghai . Fiennes is a broken man with so much pride that he fears vulnerability . Sanada embodies the elegance and grace with which the Japanese adroitly usurped China into their Great Plan . Yes , the film could use some editing , but one can understand why editor John David Allen would have had difficulty in cutting the beauty of the cinematography of Christopher Doyle and Yiu-Fai Lai capturing the costumes of John Bright and the sets of Andrew Sanders and Qi Bian . This film is more an atmosphere than story and requires the viewer to submit to the manner of relating the tale . But in the end it is a beautiful work and sadly the last of a series of great films by an incomparable team . Grady Harp
Posing	This little film plays more like a French farce than a Hollywood film and if watched with that in mind it is sure to entertain . So many writers have mined this vein of boy playing girl playing boy in the web of catching the designated lover that it must be one of the more durable lines for comedy success through the years . Adding the contemporary slant of gay proposing straight posing as gay so that straight can get girl and gay can get lover works . . . but you have to stay with this one to catch all the double entendres that make it fun . Classical music student Marc ( a new ' Brad Pitt ' like Ryan Carnes ! ) is a popular gay hunk who lives with Gwen ( Emily Brooke Hands ) who thinks she is the one responsible for making straight boys turn gay ( ! ) , so convinced is she that all the good men are gaily unavailable to her . Caleb ( Scott Lunsford ) is a straight guy who lives with jazz music student gay Kyle ( Jim Verraros ) in a purely roommate situation . Caleb , after an hilarious opening physical setup encounter with Tiffani ( Rebekah Kochan ) , is convinced that gay men have an easier time of getting partnered than straight men . At a party Caleb meets Gwen who thinks Caleb is with Kyle , Caleb wants Gwen , and Kyle wants the apparently aloof Marc . Kyle convinces Caleb that if Caleb poses as gay he will gain entry into the Gwen / Marc abode and have access to Gwen while Kyle will have access to Marc . A spur of the moment telephone sex call ( Gwen is attempting to turn on Caleb in front of Marc ) results in Caleb and Marc ' hitting it off ' much to the confusion of everyone . Add a dinner party for the four people involved which Caleb's ever-so-accepting family also attends and the whole situation explodes . How this whole schema plays out is the punch line of the film and all's well that end's well ! The cast is young and inexperienced and in need of a heavier directorial hand , but they are unanimously lovable and the men are certainly eye candy . As written and directed by Q . Allan Brocka EATNG OUT sails along breezily and provides enough fun for all audiences . Grady Harp
Searching for Role Models	SNOW ANGELS is a tough movie from a tough novel by Stewart O'Nan , an author who continues to explore the darker corners of everyday people's lives without necessarily offering a path of redemption for the found flaws . Director David Gordon Green has adapted O'Nan's fine book for the screen , made some odd choices in the narrative line , but manages to maintain the pervasive sad and almost hopeless atmosphere of a little Pennsylvania town in the winter that is besieged by events that bruise the lives of many people . Arthur ( Michael Angarano , who continues to impress with superb acting ) is a high school kid , working as a dishwasher in a Chinese restaurant where his ' dream girl ' ( ex-babysitter ) Annie ( Kate Beckinsale ) and Annie's best friend Barb ( Amy Sedaris ) wait tables , filling his spare time playing trombone in the high school band , and enduring the crumbling marriage of his mother ( Jeanette Arnette ) and teacher father ( Griffin Dunne ) . Each of the characters we meet has baggage : Annie is separated from her ne're-do-well loser husband Glenn ( Sam Rockwell ) who haunts her with his desire to see his little daughter Tara while the confused Annie is having an affair with Nate ( Nicky Katt ) , a male nurse , who just happens to be married to Barb . Though Arthur maintains his fascination and puppy love for Annie , he is drawn into the adult world by his fellow student Lila ( Olivia Thirlby ) who becomes Arthur's first ' romance ' and physical experience . As Arthur attempts to form an adult outlook on relationships with Lila , the world in this tiny town becomes increasingly fragile . Little Tara strays from home only to be discovered during the resultant manhunt by Arthur who finds the child frozen in the lake . This tragedy only adds to Arthur's own tenuous coping with becoming an adult , and how Glenn and Annie deal with loss results in a profoundly sad ending that is accompanied by the incidental music of the high school band performing on a winter field in this place where things just happen . There is little to add light to the story , except that the performances by each of the actors are exceptionally fine . Director Green manages to create a fine ensemble feeling from these actors and while there are few characters with whom we can consistently empathize , Green manages to draw well-focused small town folk who remain in the mind long after the film is ended . Not a happy film , but a solid one . Grady Harp
Inside the Box	Though the cover for the DVD of WINTER PASSING ( a photo of the four main characters crowded into a box ) may make many potential viewers pass over this little film , thinking that it must be silly slapstick , this is a fine film written and directed with finesse and style by Adam Rapp , a new face whose talents have been somewhat limited to working on episodes of the TV series ' The L Word ' . Rapp gives notice of a fine writer and an equally fine director in this barely noticed little touching movie . Reese Holdin ( Zooey Deschanel ) lives in New York , an actress relegated to small parts in off Broadway theater while spending her days as a bartender hooked on alcohol , drugs and casual sex . Her life seems dead-ended : she has become anesthetized by her manner of living . An agent ( Amy Madigan ) approaches her with an offer to pay her for the letters between her parents , both once famous authors . Her mother has just died , and Reese didn't attend her funeral , so distant does she feel is her relationship to her past . But the spark of money moves her to ride a bus back to her Michigan home to salvage the letters to sell for publication . Arriving home she is greeted by the weird Corbit ( Will Ferrell ) , a Christian electric guitar player and composer who ears black eyeliner etc , but does care for Reese's severely alcoholic father - the once famous writer Don Holdin ( Ed Harris ) who hasn't written a novel in years and lives in the garage of his home under the care of Corbit and an ex-student Shelley ( Amelia Warner ) , a bright very young girl with demons of her own . Reese works at reconnecting with her father , struggles with her resentment for the ' caregivers ' , and ultimately finds the letters she came for , only to make discoveries about her dysfunctional family and her father's status that alters her view of his value as her parent . The movie is rather stagy and most of the action is unspoken , and while that technique of telling this particular story seems exactly right to this viewer , there are some who will feel frustrated at the rather static pace of the film . Zooey Deschanel once again proves that she is one of our finest actresses on the screen and hopefully this role will bring her to the attention of casting agents and result in our seeing more of this gifted actress in the future . Ed Harris is superb as the wasted , quietly grieving has-been author , keeping his performance understated and in doing so creating a character that is indelible in our minds long after the movie is over . Amelia Warner is also a fine little actress and even galumphing Will Ferrell brings more than his usual tiring comedic talents to this touching role . In all this is a movie that deserves wide attention . There is more to quietly hear and understand about interpersonal relationships than we would expect from the cover ! Grady Harp
" The one thing I never do is to provide alibis to cover crime "	So states the risk management owner of a service that creates ' cover lies ' for adulterous affairs . And up to a point that statement makes Ray Elliott ( Steve Coogan ) seem like an honest if distorted service provider , covering the tracks with high technology so that cheating husbands can have affairs without the danger of their wives ' discovery . Smartly written by Noah Hawley and directed with style by Matt Checkowski and Kurt Mattila , LIES & ALIBIS delivers a new twist to suspense films laced with comedy yet filled with tension , murder , and all manner of underground derring-do . Ray Elliott is a smooth talker who manages to discreetly provide protection for business men who cheat on their wives using photographers to set up situations , falsifying credit cards and names and hotel room reservations , staging gifts for suspicious wives to stave off their concerns , etc . All proceeds well until Ray's primary client Robert Hatch ( James Brolin ) hires Ray to cover his son Wendell's ( James Marsden ) Santa Barbara bed and breakfast , pre-wedding escapade with a S & M girlfriend of one Hannibal ( John Leguizamo ) - a spree that carries out a bit too far in that the girl is dead by Wendell's inadvertent orders during the ' game ' . Sam takes on the voluptuous Lola ( Rebecca Romijn ) as his new assistant and discovers she is as brainy as she is beautiful . He employs her to help his cover of the murder ( Ray had switched IDs with Wendell in a planned alibi cover for the fling ) , breaking his own rules , and Lola ends up saving the day through a manner of crosses and double crosses that fling off the screen so fast that it takes powerful concentration to keep the story progress straight - just the way coordinated crime behaves ! The manner in which this spree takes place involves a large cast including Jon Polito , Deborah Kara Unger , Selma Blair , Sam Elliott and a fine crew of bit players . Steve Coogan and Rebecca Romijn make the whole caper tick like a time bomb , giving the film elegance and just the right balance of noir and romance . The rapid-fire cinematography is by Enrique Chediak and the always dependable Alexandre Desplat provides the musical score ( with a heavy nod to Offenbach's Barcarolle from ' Tales of Hoffman ' ) . For an evening of fast-paced intrigue , romance , tension , and creative writing and acting , LIES & ALIBIS is a sure bet . Grady Harp
A Nice Little Surprise Film	Marketing P . S . I LOVE YOU was a hit / miss situation . The general trailer and the billboards seem to set the audience up for a sappy tearjerker . But happily what happens in this film is not the expected ' widowed person communicating with the dead love out of failure to get on with life ' tale , but instead a look into the importance of friendship , family , and adjusting to the incomparable loss . Credit the original novel by Cecelia Ahern as adapted for the screen by Steven Rogers writer / director Richard LaGravenese for making what so easily have been a sappy , maudlin , whining tale into a touching one of human emotions with a sense of reality mixed with a mildly implausible situation , and a series of character studies that emphasize the importance of support in the time of grief . Holly ( Hilary Swank ) and Gerry ( Gerard Butler ) Kennedy are a married couple with goals and frustrations and a huge dollop of passionate love , surrounded by friends and family . The tragedy happens just as the movie starts : Gerry has died of a brain tumor leaving the copeless Holly alone with her memories and self-inflicted regrets . But Gerry , knowing he was a terminal patient , devised his own plan to help Holly through that first year of grief : he left letters in various forms and places , advising Holly how to learn about his family and how to get on with life . Holly's mother ( Kathy Bates ) owns a bar and has supported her little family since Holly's father deserted his family years ago . In the bar is another injured soul named Daniel ( Harry Connick Jr . ) who fancies Holly but realizes she is far from ready to think about dating . Holly's friends Denise ( Lisa Kudrow ) and Sharon ( Gina Gershon ) accompany Holly to Gerry's pre-planned trip to his home in Ireland to meet the in-laws Holly never knew . While in Ireland Holly reminisces on the magic of first meeting Gerry , meets Gerry's parents as well as Gerry's best friend William ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) and through it all manages to appreciate the gift of PS I Love You letters and reminders Gerry has left for her . And she ultimately finds closure to her loss . The cast is strong and makes these at times strained characters into lovable people : Hilary Swank has made a successful entrance into the feminine lead role and is balanced to perfection by Butler , Morgan , Connick , Bates , Kudrow and Gershon . They make the implausible plausible and deliver a love story that goes beyond the level of superficial to join the ranks of warm and tender memorable slices of life . It is surprisingly good ! Grady Harp
The Second Installment in the Donald Strachey Mystery Series : Even Better than the First !	Richard Stevenson's gay mystery novels based on his creation of Donald Strachey , Private Investigator have found the perfect crew to transform these very interesting and entertaining stories to film . SHOCK TO THE SYSTEM is the second in the series and as adapted for the screen by Ron McGee , directed with panache by Ron Oliver , and starring the very fine actor Chad Allen as the sleuth with couth and style and charisma the results are a polished little gem of a film . But aside from the fact that the film is so well put together , it presents gay people in roles that are so far away from the usual stereotypical types that their sexual proclivity is in many ways simply incidental : you have to look long and hard to find a solid healthy gay relationship as well portrayed as that between Strachey and his life partner Tim ( the very fine Sebastian Spence ) . The story this time around involves Strachey's being asked to help one Paul Hale ( Jared Keeso ) , the supposed poster boy for the Phoenix Foundation , a ' turn gay people straight ' institute run by Dr . Trevor Cornell ( Michael Woods ) and his wife Lynn ( Anne Marie Loder ) . Paul is soon found dead and the implications are suicide . But Strachey suspects foul play ( we later discover Hale was his first love in the Army ! ) and aided by Hale's mother Phyllis ( Morgan Fairchild looking terrific and acting well ) who encouraged her son's joining the Phoenix Foundation , he begins his own style of investigation . Strachey wisely ' becomes a patient ' with Dr . Cornell and in group therapy makes discoveries and friends with those who eventually help to solve the case : a strong group of actors including Rikki Gagne , Stephen Huszar , Ryan Kennedy , Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman , Shawn Roberts , Dany Papineau , and Gerry Morton . The clues are laid out , the deaths follow and the truths finally surface . And all the while Strachey is supported by Tim , by a very fine comic actor Nelson Wong as his ' office manager ' , and by his ' boss ' Detective Bailey ( Daryl Shuttleworth ) . The dialogue is crisp , relevant , intense when it needs to be and funny when it relaxes , the cinematography takes a beautiful bow to the old Hollywood film noir techniques , and the cast is excellent , filled with not only a lot of eye candy but also with some very well realized characterizations . In the end the film belongs to the very hunky and versatile Chad Allen , only making wait for the next installment in this very successful series ! Highly recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
It takes time for the punch to be felt . . .	LIONS FOR LAMBS as a movie has the courage to do just what the message of the film attempts to do : encourage the American public to stop being so apathetic about our position in the global community . The dramatization of three points of view about the Middle East conflicts ( it not only takes on the Iraq debacle , but adds the Afghanistan and Iran problems as well ) could , in lesser hands than Robert Redford's direction of Matthew Michael Carnahan's script , be a preachy bore . But while the ' action ' of the film may not grab the viewer , the afterburn of the message will haunt the thinking person . Three scenarios interweave ( at times a bit bumpy in the editing , and at times a bit distracting ) : adamantly pro-war Republican Senator Irving ( Tom Cruise ) is interviewed by long time thinking journalist Janine Roth ( Meryl Streep ) and each defends / attacks the current strategy of the war in Iraq ( Irving is taking calls about the latest ' expansion ' into Afghanistan ) ; Professor Malley ( Robert Redford ) tries to resurrect a sense of involvement in a student Todd Hayes ( Andrew Garfield ) once bright but now sinking into the apathy of living the good life ; ex-students of Professor Malley - Arian Finch ( Derek Luke ) and Ernesto Rodriguez ( Michael Peña ) - have committed to the idea of acting for change and have ended up being dropped in Afghanistan in the very ' new ' war Senator Irving is addressing . By stirring these three approaches to the manner in which the public is a currently addressing the war in Iraq in a concurrent conversation , the film involves the viewer in the crossfire of apathy and misinformation that come from failed education , faulty governmental intervention and the media sellout to get ratings . It is not a pretty picture , but then our current state of affairs is not one of which we can be proud . There are no answers here , just harsh realities and questions as to why we can remain so passive as a nation involved in the lowest state of global respect ever known . The film has flaws , but if the viewer can digest the information illustrated by some very fine acting , perhaps there may be a chance for a wake-up call . Watch it for the message , not expecting a thriller or an action movie . The mind is what is engaged here . Grady Harp
A Celebration of Life and the Music Within Each of Us	A Celebration of Life and the Music Within Each of Us , April 14 , 2008 By Grady Harp ( Los Angeles , CA United States ) - See all my reviewsThe life of the extraordinary survivor Richard Pimentel is a fine biography that manages to explore the many phases of a unique man's life with humor , tenderness , and bravado . Though barely recognized in its theatrical release , MUSIC WITHIN should hopefully find a wide audience in the form of this well constructed DVD . There are many significant lessons to be learned from this story ( written by Bret McKinney , Mark Andrew Olsen and Kelly Kennemeras ) as well as a large dose of entertainment from some superb actors directed by Steven Sawalich ( credited with the original idea for the film ) . Richard Pimentel ( Ron Livingston ) entered the world as one of the survivors in a series of miscarriages by his mother ( Rebecca De Mornay ) , a deeply disturbed woman who surrendered her only living child to a Catholic orphanage at birth . From there Pimentel grew up with bizarre circumstances , raised by his Chinese father who dies from a working accident . Desperately needing to belong and to recognized , Pimentel became an expert public speaker , but his efforts to gain admission to college were thwarted by college speech professor Ben Padrow ( Hector Elizondo ) who admired Pimentel's technical abilities on the stage but says he needs to live life to find his ' music within ' before he can succeed in college level oratory . Out of need for employment and guarantee for a college education Pimentel joins the military , is sent to Vietnam , where a blast of incoming explosions disables him with deafness . Released from the military without the benefits of Veteran funds , Pimentel deals with his inability to hear , meets Art Honeyman ( Michael Sheen ) disabled by cerebral palsy and the two strike up a warm friendship : the two can understand each other and form a bond stronger than the critical eye of the ' normal world ' . Pimentel meets the beautiful Christine ( Melissa George ) and soon they bed only to have Pimentel discover the Christine shares her bed with another man . From this point the story picks up a pace that is breathless as Pimentel gains his education and a good job , only to join a group of disabled veterans , and eventually devote his life to fighting for the rights of the disabled . And this is all true ! Livingston finds the right balance between dark humor and ambition to create change in a world that views the disabled as ' ugly ' , and together with Michael Sheen's impeccable performance as the multifaceted cerebral palsy stricken Ken , the spot-on actors transcend the ' docudrama ' genre and offer us unforgettable characters that provide a richly entertaining story as well as a plea for understanding the plight of the disabled . The features included with the DVD are full of interviews with the real Richard Pimentel and the actors ' and director's responses to the formation of the American Disabilities Act that resulted from this amazing young man's struggle to find his music within . It is a wild ride of a comic film with a very tender message . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Film Rich in Visual Splendor and in Message	Writer / Director Kayvan Mashayekh has created a fine film biography of the 11th century poet / philosopher / mathematician Omar Khayyam and in doing so has presented his viewers with much food for thought . An Iranian immigrant to the US , Mashayekh set out to not only share the rich cultural heritage of his homeland , but he also found a way to make the story even more meaningful : ' The Keeper ' refers to the member of Iranian families ( or all families for that matter ) whose role it is to preserve and share and perpetuate the history of the family , saving ties to the past to assure they never are forgotten . Oral histories these , but in Mashayekh's hands ( with writing assists from Belle Avery ) this story draws the viewer into an Iranian family's life of diaspora and the deep tug to remain connected its dazzling past . The film is timely to say the least , and the message is one that will benefit the audiences fortunate to see it in understanding a controversial country and its people . Young Kamran ( Adam Echahly ) sits beside the bedside of his dying older brother Nader ( Puya Behinaein ) attentive to the stories about the family's tie to the Persian poet Omar Khayyam . The oral history is parceled out as the older brother dies and when death prevents the conclusion of the history young Kamran sneaks away to England where he encounters an elderly heiress ( Vanessa Redgrave ) who shares with him the handmade book of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam and directs him to its source . Kamran then travels to Iran to his elderly grandfather ( Dariush Iran Nezhad ) who rejoices in the fact that Kamran is so committed to the family history and proceeds to share the mysteries of the hallowed ancestor . This contemporary story serves as a reference point to depict the actual times of Omar Khayyam ( Bruno Lastra ) , revealing the man's childhood with his commitment to learning and to his two close friends Darya ( Marie Espinosa ) and Hassan ( Christopher Simpson ) . Omar pursues learning and Hassan follows soldiering : they both love Darya but she is sold into slavery . The chain of events is unraveled slowly as we see every step of Omar's education into astronomy , mathematics , philosophy and poetry . He is a Muslim who is a lover of reason and tolerance , a man who keeps his pledges of trust and honor and translates his emotions into poetry that will live far beyond his time . Persia is invaded by the Turks with Sultan Malikshah ( Moritz Bleibtreu ) and the sultan is wise enough to employ the gifts of Omar for his court . The ruthlessness of the times destroys much of the empire : the Christian Crusaders and the Saracens destroy the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the seeds of struggle that persist to this day are sewn . But above it all is Omar's commitment to reason and to tolerance and his power is felt both at the time of the devastation and even to this day . The film was shot almost entirely in Uzbekistan and other exotic locations not usually seen by US audiences . The added features on the DVD include a very fine commentary by the director and by an authority on Omar Khayyam who manages to give us a terrific history lesson ! There are also production comments that share some of the coincidental beauties and difficulties in shooting this film . The actors are all fine : one wishes for more depth to their characters , which should have been the province of the writers . But the overall effect of this visually stunning film is one of reverence for Iran's past and for the legacy of Omar Khayyam . It is a fine story and an equally fine history lesson .
Coincidences and Consequences	Based on the Michael Kearns ' play ' Complications ' , NINE LIVES introduces a sequence of the lives of nine men who are interconnected by the fact they are all participants in the roundelay of casual sexual encounters . The technique used is that of each actor speaking to the audience about his background and how each ended up in the rather sad state of living in which they find themselves . The stories are interesting if a bit repetitive ( parental abuse of both the verbal and physical type , the agonies of ' coming out ' . and the specter of AIDS ) , but the script keeps the conversations mixed well with actual encounters so that we the audience are less confessional listeners so much as participants in the results of living life on the edge . The cast is uniformly fine , a factor that keeps the film afloat in many instances . Particularly fine is Steve Callahan ( ' East Side Story ' ) who seems to have a promising career . Director Dean Howell ( who also wrote the screenplay ) is another solid actor as are Eric Turic , William Christian , John Ganun , Dennis Christopher , Nick Salamone , Debra Wilson - well , the entire cast . The direction is tight and flows well from ' life to life ' , using sexual scenes where indicated , and keeping the focus on the darker side of the round of confessions . The cinematography by Mark A . Ryan keeps the look dark and coarse and a bit too much on the dreary side . The makeup artist Shari Balbien is none too kind to the actors ' looks . Made in 2004 the film holds up well as far as content , a sad statement about the slow progress in the struggle against HIV infection . Grady Harp
Secrets and Lies , Forgiveness and Redemption : A Week in Winter	John G . Young ( ' Parallel Sons ' ) is a fine writer and director whose fertile mind is slowly offering beautiful little quiet films that bravely address many difficult issues . THE RECEPTION is a very low budget film ( not evident in the product , but in actuality it is said to have been made for $5000 . - meaning it is a labor of love on the part of the cast and crew ) , an Indie film garnering respect in the festivals and will likely gather a following now that it is available on DVD . Young does not write or direct exploitational African American films : Young writes about less flamboyant issues that make his work less ethnic and more universal . Jeannette ( Pamela Holden Stewart ) is an aging divorced French ' writer ' who has moved to upstate New York to a beautiful home to drink , lives with an HIV-positive African American painter Martin ( Wayne Lamont Sims ) , a disillusioned gay man who has retreated from the artistic and emotional pains of Paris . The two care for each other , two isolated souls in mutual need of understanding . Into this snowy solace comes Jeannette's daughter Sierra ( Margaret Burkwit ) , whom Jeannette has not seen in years having left her with her father at the time of an early divorce suffering the anger of the estrangement and distance , and Sarah's new husband Andrew ( Darien Sills-Evans ) a handsome African American law student from a wealthy family . Jeannette demands they stay until the weekend when Jeannette will throw a big reception party for the newly wedded couple . At a dinner party for a ' potential lover ' for Jeannette all of the underpinnings of the drama become evident . Nothing is as it seems : every character has secrets and lies that gradually and painfully surface and change the story in surprising ways . Original intentions are thwarted by dishonesty and resolutions of broken lives bring the film to a quiet end . Young addresses issues such as gay love , living with HIV , alcoholism , dysfunctional mother / daughter relationships , deception , greed , lust , desperation - all in a tight little story that makes its messages clear though not only well written dialogue but also the extended silences in the isolation of a place in the snowy woods . The cast acts with an unforced natural manner , allowing us to slowly discover the real complexities of the characters . The scenery is ideally captured by cinematographer Derek Wiesehahn . It is refreshing to see how touching a film can be made with so little money , eight days shooting time , and a devoted group of fine artists . Grady Harp
A Fascinating Twist on the Subject of Addiction	MR . BROOKS is a surprisingly good film , one that from the response of critics and audiences at the time of the theatrical release last Spring might make the casual viewer pass by the DVD . But step into this strange world of the successful , philanthropic , loving husband and father Mr . Brooks and discover one of the more clever twists on the themes of addiction and serial killings , courtesy of a smart script by writer / director Bruce A . Evans and Raynold Gideon . Earl Brooks ( Kevin Costner , in what may be his best role ) has it all : wealth , fame , Man of the Year , a gorgeous home in Portland , a stunning wife Emma ( Marg Helgenberger ) , a perky college freshman daughter Jane ( Danielle Panabaker ) - and a secret : though he has not been active for two year while attending AA meeting for his addiction to killing , Brooks has a history of being a serial ' Thumbprint ' killer . Brooks is accompanied in his darker life by an alter ego Marshall ( William Hurt ) who encourages him to take up his old addiction to killing ' because he is so good at it ' . Brooks follows the need and performs another staged murder of a couple during intercourse . Mistake - he forgets to close the drapes in the room , opening the possibility that he has been seen , a possibility which is realized when he encounters a funky young ' Mr . Smith ' ( Dane Cook ) who just happened to have photographed Brooks ' latest adventure and blackmails him into promising to allow ' Mr . Smith ' to accompany him on his next murder ! Twists and turns occur : daughter Jane returns from college having dropped out apparently because she is pregnant , though there are darker reasons for her move . A spunky detective Tracy Atwood ( Demi Moore ) , a distraught woman plowing her way through an ugly divorce , takes interest in the newest episode of the return of the Thumbprint killer and faces her own demons from her past experiences as a policewoman . Feeling that Atwood may uncover his crime and thus history , Brooks plans a strange caper that includes ' Mr . Smith ' and fearing that daughter Jane may have inherited his bad genes for killing addiction , he takes care of her threatening business before the surprise conclusion of the story . To tell more of the plot would deprive the viewer of the any secrets that unfold in the hands of Brooks and his man Marshall . The story is smart , well scripted , intense , and exciting . And in addition to the very fine performances by the stars , there are excellent cameos by Yasmine Delawari , Aisha Hinds , Jason Lewis , Reiko Aylesworth , and Matt Schulze . Give this poorly reviewed little thriller a chance . It is very much worth watching on every level . Grady Harp
Something To Offend Everybody . . . If You Want It To : A Black Comedy	SAVED ! is a testy little film that takes more chances than most and if not taken as a parody on our current religious polarizations , it could offend many . But this is a comedy and since Greek times , comedies find their most pungent lines in making fun of contentious ideas . The setting is a fundamentalist Christian Highschool where everyone in the student body is endlessly praising Jesus and God and stretching their modes of entertainment and socialization to focus on religious concepts . Mary ( ! ) ( Jena Malone ) is a sweet kid whose mother Lillian ( Mary-Louise Parker ) is off in her own world but supportive of her daughter who can do no wrong . Mary eyes handsome athletic Dean ( Chad Faust ) who is gay and Mary ' sacrifices ' her virginity to save Dean's sinful soul : they bed and she becomes pregnant , but only after Dean is sent away to a de-gaying Mercy Center . The leader of the student body Jesus group is Hilary ( Mandy Moore ) who seeks to ' save ' every lost soul , especially the sole Jewish ' ex-stripper ' Cassandra ( Eva Amurri ) who smokes , drinks , and seduces physically challenged , wheelchair bound Roland ( Macaulay Culkin ) who has been in Hilary's keeping . This set of problems all come to various resolutions at the infamous Prom , just like in all the old movies of the forties . But in the meantime no variation of normal goes unscathed : the disabled , out of wedlock pregnancies , gays , Jews , and all people outside fundamental religious beliefs ( sound familiar ? ) . While much of the script is clunky and the story irritating to people of open minds , there is some fine work by most of the actors . It is a black comedy and if taken as such , it shouldn't seriously offend anyone - unless you choose to let it . Writer / Director Brian Dannelly is not surprisingly the creator of the current controversial TV series ' WEEDS ' ! Grady Harp
' Talk the talk or walk the walk '	Terrence Howard is one of those actors who seemingly can do anything . No matter what the role he intelligently chooses to play he is always phenomenally fine ( Crash , Ray , Lackawanna Blues , Their Eyes Were Watching God , Four Brothers , Hart's War , etc etc etc ) . In HUSTLE & FLOW writer / director Craig Brewer has finally given him a vehicle that allows him more screen time and the opportunity to create a character that burns his image on our memory indelibly . The story of a pimp and drug dealer in Memphis , stuck in the poverty level and rapidly drowning in mid-life crisis , who pulls himself into the stream of his need and dream to be something different , a rapper star , has been told before but never in the gritty realistic atmospheric way this film does . One of the most telling sequences of both writing and acting is the opening scene of the film when Djay ( Howard ) quietly talks his philosophy to Nola ( Taryn Manning ) , his primary prostitute , simply sitting in the front seat of his car , awaiting johns . Howard makes this soliloquy pungent yet quiet and in the words we hear provide the outline for the story to follow . While Terrence Howard's is towering , the supporting cast is superb also . Anthony Anderson , DJ Qualls , Taraji P . Henson , Paula Jai Parker , Isaac Hayes , and Ludicrous all offer genuine portraits of difficult characters . The smarmy side of Memphis is well captured by cinematographer Amy Vincent . This is a fine film , a bit difficult to watch at times because of the bruises of poverty and the depths to which people must descend at times to survive . But the story is pungent and tough and Terrence Howard is a marvel to watch . Grady Harp
Love , Intolerance , Justice : An ongoing search	Tommy Stovall makes a stunning debut as a writer and director for the very insightful , sensitive , and courageous film HATE CRIME . It is difficult to believe that this is his first attempt at cinematic communication , the film just works that well . Robbie Levinson ( Seth Peterson ) and Trey McCoy ( Brian J . Smith ) have been in a successful relationship for six years , complete with home , cute and devoted dog , supportive parents and siblings , and especially funky supportive neighbor Kathleen Slansky ( a major turn for veteran character actress Lin Shaye ) . They are approaching their commitment ceremony and even talking about adopting children when the sky darkens with the moving in of next door neighbor Chris Boyd ( Chad Donella ) , a stormy right wing bible-thumping homophobe who catches a glimpse of Robbie's and Trey's affection . When Trey is walking their dog in the park one evening he is beaten severely with a baseball bat : the obvious suspect is neighbor Chris . Kathleen warns Robbie that justice will never be achieved in the hands of the law and sets of a sense of revenge in Robbie's mind . Trey lies in a coma in the hospital while his mother ( a superb Cindy Pickett ) is shaken not only form her only son's tenuous condition but also from her recovering alcoholic husband's ( Sean Hennigan ) flat affect and continued lack of communication . A fine young detective Elizabeth Fisher ( Farah White ) does what she can to attempt to gather the shaky facts of evidence of Chris ' guilt , but is thwarted by the entry of Detective Esposito ( Giancarlo Esposito ) who has homophobic issues of his own . Chris ' father , Pastor Boyd ( Bruce Davison ) rants from his pulpit that all sinners - especially fornicators - must be punished by God and Chris supports his father's preachings and actions , as does his beautiful bimbo mother Martha ( Susan Blakely ) . As facts are found and everyone surrounding Trey's beating is suspect , the story gathers momentum in the true fashion of the best detective mysteries . Dark secrets appear from every corner and eventually the crime is ' resolved ' , but not without many surprises as to the perpetrator and the motivation . The entire cast is excellent from the leading roles to the cameos and Stovall keeps the pace at a breathtaking speed . Yes , there are some gaping holes in the script , giving us the feeling that Stovall had to pare down his story to the 104 minutes it takes . But what he does accomplish is a masterly look at strident right wing religious views of gays while balancing those with compassionate religious views by the more moderate and love-oriented factions . He raises a lot of issues , leaves many concepts unresolved intentionally , and draws performances from his committed cast that rank with the finest . This is a film that SHOULD be viewed by a wide audience . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Tired Script but a Platform for the Skillful Acting of Douglas and Wood	KING OF California may not break any records for innovation of thought or script but it is a tightly made little film that allows veteran actor Michael Douglas a lollipop of a wacky role to remind us that he does have comedic talent ! It also gives 20-year old Evan Rachel Wood the opportunity to compete with a Pro and come out an equal - quite a feat for such a young actress . Written and directed by Mike Cahill the story does have appeal , especially since it is set in Santa Clarita , California , a rapidly developing ' hinterland ' that is suffering from the effects of too rapid industrialization , changing from a picturesque remnant of California raw beauty into yet another perky little town . Charlie ( Michael Douglas ) has been in and out of mental institutions for his wacky behavior . His life as a jazz bassist and entrepreneur has always veered off the map , leaving him alone with his only daughter Miranda who has survived her father's irresponsible life by keeping the old family home ( in the midst of a huge housing development ) with the money she makes double shifting at the local MacDonalds . When Charlie is released his focus is on discovering the gold left behind by Catholic priests in the mid 1600s , a fact he has researched while hospitalized , on the Internet , and from the journal of one of the priests . Miranda slowly buys into Charlie's madcap scheme and adventure as a gold hunter and the caper results in a bonding between father and daughter that has been teetering on the brink of disaster for years . The manner in which Charlie , Miranda , and an old ex-con friend Pepper ( Willis Burks II ) go after the treasure provides most of the energy of the film . Yes , there are bits and pieces of this project that have been done many times before ( and often better ) , but the pleasure of KING OF California lies in the bravura and touching performances by Douglas and Wood . This is a pleasant excursion of a movie , worth an evening's gander . Grady Harp
Don Juan in Hell	Jim Jarmusch continues his exploration of the human plight with BROKEN FLOWERS , a story he both wrote and directed , and this time he examines the psyche and the consequences of the Don Juan complex . In doing so he offers a quiet meditation about choices and their reverberations and leaves many thoughts open-ended , a definite tribute to the intelligence of his viewers and followers . Don Johnston ( Bill Murray ) is a middle aged bachelor who has devoted his life to being a success in computer work , all the while being a lothario with countless women used as sexual partners over his lifetime . His most recent paramour Sherry ( Julie Delphy ) has just left him : ' You make me feel like a mistress and you're not even married ! ' . He now lives alone in Anywhere , USA , his only friends being his next-door neighbor , novelist Winston ( Jeffrey Wright ) and his wife Mona ( Heather Simms ) and five children . Don receives a pink envelope in the mail , no signature , no return address , informing him he has a 19-year-old son who may be out looking for him . Don's affect is flat : he has no idea of his parenthood or the identity of the mother . Winston is curious , takes the letter in hand and begins detective work to find out whom the mother might be . In a matter of days he has located four prospects from a list Don reluctantly and fuzzily makes of girlfriends from 20 years ago , makes all the travel arrangements , gives detective type advice , and sets Don ( Juan ) Johnston off on his journey with instructions to greet each of the four with a bouquet of pink flowers . The four women are a disparate group : Laura ( Sharon Stone ) and her au natural daughter Lolita ( Alexis Dziena ) where he pauses for a physical dalliance ; Dora ( Frances Conroy ) ; animal communicator Dr . Carmen Markowski ( Jessica Lange ) with her sexy office assistant ( Chloë Sevigny ) ; and Penney ( Tilda Swinton ) whose fellow bikers beat him . Don returns home , without having a clue as to who sent the letter or has the son . Back at home he receives a second pink letter that he turns over to Winston : case unsolved . He remains a lonely man , befriends a young lad ( Mark Webber ) at the thought he may be the son , but that too leaves stories unresolved . Was the lad his son , had he met the mother , or is this all a concoction for a novel by his best friend Winston ? Jarmusch leaves the ending to the audience . He has created enough characters with whom we can identify and understand and then just leaves it there . The cast is excellent , with Bill Murray's Don being the finest interpretation of his career . Each of the cameos is brief but fully realized and allows each of the actors a divergent role from their usual casting . Though promoted as a comedy this story is more of a meditation on lust , desire , loneliness , and failure to connect . It is a fine little film . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Taut Thriller That Keeps Circling the Viewer's Mind Through a Maze	THE KOVAK BOX is a successful little suspense / psychological thriller from the Spanish writers Daniel Monzón ( who also directs ) and Jorge Guerricaechevarría . The story may be a bit far fetched , but then what horror story isn't ? The premise for the tale holds up well and is aided by some very fine performances by a mixture of Spanish , English , and American actors . The mood of the film is beautifully set during opening credits by a complex maze in which a white rat sniffs and ambulates from confusing corner to confusing wall - just the manner in which director Monzón plans to tell his story . David Norton ( Timothy Hutton ) is a celebrated science fiction novelist visiting Majorca for a special conference accompanied by his soon to be fiancée Jane ( Georgia Mackenzie ) . David has been having premonitions on his flight to the conference and those brooding thoughts continue as he registers for the conference and finds little disturbing clues that culminate in Jane's suicide leap from their hotel balcony . Almost simultaneously an attractive Spanish girl Silvia ( Lucía Jiménez ) in the same hotel ' jumps ' from her balcony but is saved from death by falling onto an awning . Jane dies in the hospital : Silvia is in the bed next to Jane , witnesses David's grief , and the beginning of a bond is created . David meets a strange old man Frank Kovak ( David Kelly ) who seeks an autograph of David's first novel ' Gloomy Sunday ' and from there the mystery begins . David becomes the unknowing main character in a sci-fi story that mimics ideas from his own first book , a story about the implantation of devices in humans that would enable a central force to assist the victims in their own destructive ends . The plot is tightly woven from this point on and to reveal any portion of it would diminish the chair-gripping finale . Timothy Hutton seems an odd choice for the main character of the film until his combination of cool intellect and understated passion clicks in . The film is graced by the presence of the talented Lucía Jiménez who seems to have the potential of becoming another Penelope Cruz ! The cinematography by Carles Gusi and musical score by Roque Baños make the setting visually and aurally spectacular . For those who enjoy mind bender thrillers , THE KOVAK BOX will certainly please . Grady Harp
Woody Allen's View of Love , Infatuation and Relationships	Woody Allen has written and directed another European based film that feels like a view across the pond toward America : Allen is still Allen , but with the comparison of European attitudes with American narcissism makes this little film a bit more bitter than most of his others . As with most of Allen's movies , as fine as they are there are usually some annoying elements . In VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA that element is in the presence of an unseen narrator ( Christopher Evan Welch ) who provides the bridges among the various aspects of the film , bridges that in the presence of such a fine cast are unnecessary in fleshing out the characters and their odd situations . Vicky ( Rebecca Hall ) and Cristina ( Scarlett Johansson ) are best friends who have elected to spend a summer in Barcelona : Vicky intends to pursue her studies of Catalan art and architecture while Cristina needs to recover from her completion of a disappointing 12 minute film . Vicky is a pragmatist engaged to a ' good prospect ' named Doug ( Chris Messina ) while Cristina longs for the unusual - something that will fill the gap in her perception that she is without talent . The two girls meet a famous artist Juan Antonio Gonzano ( Javier Bardem ) who , recovering from a strangely abusive marriage to the flamboyant Maria Elena ( Penélope Cruz ) , puts the make on the two girls for a ménage a trois . Vicky is disgusted , Cristina is fascinated and somehow the trio is off for a wild weekend that turns into a strange interplay of even stranger personality types . Juan loves both , beds both , and problems arise - especially when his still beloved tempestuous Maria Elena arrives on the scene . Just about every variation of relationships is explored during this film with the audience more than willing to go along with the twists and turns that never cease to surprise and entertain . Once again Javier Bardem proves he is one of our strongest actors on the screen and Penélope Cruz lights up the story like a rocket . Watching them both is reason enough to see this film . As for the script , Allen allows each of the characters to reference an aspect of Allen's own quirks , and in the end we have indeed heard yet another diatribe of how Woody Allen sees himself and the people who enter his sphere . The film is colorful , rich in fine music , and blessed with an impeccable cast . If it just didn't superimpose that narrator as a tour guide . . . . Grady Harp
Communal Nurturing and Healing Among Friends of Scars from the War	' Un monde presque paisible ' ( Almost Peaceful ) is a touching little film that keeps its story so quietly gentle that the effect is genuinely memorable . Director and screenwriter Michel Deville based this engrossing movie on a novel by Robert Bober : it is a unique vision and sharing of how Jews recovered from WW II . Set in 1946 in Paris , the owner of a tailoring business seeks out Jews who have either returned from the camps or have been in hiding , or were part of the Resistance , who by luck escaped the fate of so many others , or were outcast otherwise during the horrors of WW II and offers them employment and emotional support . These are healthy people physically : emotionally the damage is deep and requires tender nurturing to start the road to health . The story unfolds slowly and allows us to witness the means by which each of these victims help each other heal and regain self confidence and learn to live in a world without the fear of extermination . The movement of the story is one of emerging trust and the director and actors each bring to the concept a fine sense of history and of the manner in which fellowman can coexist with a little help from their friends . The cast is uniformly excellent and the atmospheric cinematography by Andre Diot is stunningly beautiful and reminiscent of the post war France period . The musical score is solely dependent on string quartets and matches the intimacy of the message of the film . In French with English subtitles . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Information That May Make Some Viewers Uncomfortable . . . . .	Now and then along comes a film that deals with subject matter that is not well known and when that subject matter involves paranormal information , it seems to throw up a wall that is threatening to many viewers . " Walls " like that are usually the first response to encountering new ideas and if viewers can simply watch this well made film without prejudices , then perhaps the study of after death experiences will gain attention that in turn will encourage further investigation . WHITE NOISE as written by Niall Johnson and directed by Geoffrey Sax explores the concept of EVP or Electronic Voice Phenomenon , a ' science ' of recognizable words that are picked up by various electronic machines ( telephones , televisions , radios , etc ) , words that are names of the deceased , phrases that send messages to the living ( according to the scientists that work with this field the majority of the phrases are warnings of malevolent occurrences ) , sounds that are reproducible and are even accompanied by visual images of the departed . The DVD of this movie contains reports from those exploring this field and examples of EVP from resources outside the production of this film , providing some backup that should you watch them are informative . John Rivers ( Michael Keaton ) is a successful architect happily married to successful novelist Anna ( Chandra West ) living in the elegant suburbs of Vancouver with his young son from a previous marriage . Anna has just discovered that she is pregnant and the couple is ecstatic . Anna drives off to an event concerning her latest novel but never returns . Her car is found by the water but she is not in the car . John wants to believe she is still alive until the police inform him the body has been found , Devastated , John begins to hear strange sounds , discovers he is being ' stalked ' , but when he confronts the ' stalker ' he finds a kind Raymond Price ( Ian McNeice ) who tells John about EVP and that he has been receiving messages from Anna . John scoffs and yet as his anguish over Anna's death threatens to paralyze him he eventually contacts Price . In Price's ' home lab ' he meets Sarah ( Deborah Kara Unger ) who has just successfully spoken with and seen her departed husband . Slowly John becomes convinced that EVP is viable and begins receiving information from Anna about events in and around Vancouver that predict malevolence . John engages the police and pursues the messages he hears from Anna , finding predictions from beyond to be true . Price admonishes John that while some of the voices from the other side are loving , others are evil and can destroy . And after the bizarre death of Price , John and Sarah join in pursuing clues that eventually lead to the surprising conclusion of the story . Yes , there are gaping holes in the script , there are character motivations left unexplained , and there is the unfortunate introduction of animation ' ghosts ' toward the finale that cheapen the impact . But the mood is terrifying and jolting and keeps you on the edge of your seat - if you just give in to the idea that EVP is a possibility . Michael Keaton gives a superb performance in this practically one-man show and his portrayal of John gives the tone of authenticity much needed in stories such as this . If you are a skeptic and not one who gives credence to concepts of afterlife or communication with the deceased or in general anything that can't be covered by a media group from CNN , then this film will probably not register . But for those with open minds this is a fine suspense story and serves to open windows into thought experiences others are exploring . Grady Harp
A Film that Polarizes the Audience : Intention Versus Impact	To give a less than shining review of Clint Eastwood's FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS is tantamount to being labeled un-American . That is sad because for this viewer the result of the film is not whether or not Eastwood's nonlinear development of a story that bumps and spurts and reflects and meanders and shadows reality lets us get to know the ' heroes ' cast in the roles of the three men who survived a single incident in the atrocity of WW II : this is a film that hopefully will be ultimately seen as one of the strongest antiwar statements made to date . Eastwood does not preach to us , but he rather pulls the curtain back to see the staggering atrocities committed by both camps of soldiers on Iwo Jima - a mirror for every other battle that tore the world apart during WW II - while showing the true venom of the politicians and high mucky mucks back home , those rather insensitive men who elected to create mannequins out of the three men who just happened to be photographed in one of the most infamous photographs of the war and made them sell war bonds , cashing in on emotions to get the big bucks needed to keep the war machine well oiled . That aspect is the more terrifying . As the writers place the words in the mouth of James Bradley : ' Heroes are something we create , something we need . It's a way for us to understand what is almost incomprehensible , how people could sacrifice so much for us , but for my dad and these men the risks they took , the wounds they suffered , they did that for their buddies , they may have fought for there country but they died for there friends . For the man in front for the man beside him , and if we wish to truly honor these men we should remember them the way they really were the way my dad remembered them ' . The cast is very good : Ryan Phillippe , Jesse Bradford , Adam Beach , Barry Pepper , Jaime Bell , Paul Walker , Joseph Cross as the young men and bit parts of the older men played by such luminaries as George Grizzard , Harve Presnell , George Hearn and Len Cariou . The battle photography is staggering and gruesome . No , we never really get to know the true personalities of the boys named as heroes , but having been through a war this viewer can mention that backgrounds and character studies somehow dissolve when young men are thrown into the horror of survival . They were all heroes , whether they survived or not . Eastwood is asking us to look at the heinous futility of war and the depersonalization war causes - except in the tortured memories of those who come home . Grady Harp
Raw Emotions : A Film Without Pity	WALKER PAYNE , as written by director Matt Williams and Alex Paraskevas , is a bleak study of life in the late 1950s middle America . It is a story of dreams crushed by the tough realities of bad luck and bad decisions . For some viewers this story may be depressing , but for others the story as a cinematic recreation of a period of time in America is full of fine details and boasts a cast of excellent actors who manage to involve us in the fleeting hopes and the permanent scars that are magnified during difficult times and circumstances . Walker Payne ( Jason Patric ) , a lovable man with a prison record , works in an Illinois coal mine , spends his free time womanizing , yet is strongly attached to his two young daughters who now live with his estranged wife ( Drea de Matteo ) - a woman angry with her plight in life , having sacrificed her dreams of being a nurse to move to the little mining town , surviving as a waitress without child support from the financially delinquent Walker . His closest companion is his Pit Bull dog Brute who accompanies him everywhere . Walker longs to have his girls live with him , but the injured wife puts a price on that wish : she will give him possession of the girls for a fee of $5000 . , a figure she has calculated will pay for her leaving the little town she hates and pay for tuition and boarding in nursing school . Walker is at a loss for funds , especially when the mine shuts down and he is unemployed . Seeking help from his banker friend does not result in a loan but does acquaint him with a new woman in town - Audrey ( KaDee Strickland ) - a proper girl with her own reasons for ' escaping ' to the solitudes of the little mining town where she has a responsible position in the bank . Walker's close friend ( Bruce Dern ) collects stray animals and cares for them and is the source of Walker's gaining Brute as a pet , but when the desperate Walker seeks employment there , no funds are available for his help . Walker's roving romantic eye focuses on Audrey who plays hard to get until she sees how desperate Walker is to get the money to gain custody of his daughters , a fact which positively alters her perception of Walker . About this time Walker meets Syrus ( Sam Shepard ) , a man who gambles and makes under cover deals : one of his ' games ' is to find dogs who can fight for money and as he gets loser to Walker's desperation , he convinces him to train Brute to ' be the dog he was bred to be - a fighter ' . Walker hesitates until he realizes this is his only chance to make the money to gain his little girls . Brute is trained , wins a fight , and Syrus then challenges Walker to enter a championship fight that will provide all the money Walker needs . Very reluctantly Walker steps into what is a scheme that results in tragedies in which he seems to lose it all - his dog , his freedom , his new love , and his girls . The audience is left to wade through the depression of the last portion of the film and create individual versions of how the story could possibly end . There are some unresolved issues dealing with the motivations of some of the characters , but the film is very strong in allowing the viewer to understand the extremes to which people will go in times of crisis . Many portions of the film are difficult to watch ( the dog fights are graphic ) , but somehow the actors are able to create strong enough impressions that our attention is focused more on the desperate and fragile dreams of each of the characters . The musical score by Mason Daring enhances the visceral cinematography by James L . Carter . This is a dark film with moments of human frailty that provide small beams of hopeful light . Grady Harp
Finally a Role that Fits Robin Williams	After a spate of roles that Robin Williams elected to play to prove he can be other than a funny guy , roles that were dark and foreboding , along comes the surprise film MAN OF THE YEAR and Williams has the opportunity to shine in both his unbridled comic banter and his more serious and even tender side . The film was marketed with a Thomas Jefferson cum George Washington wig atop Williams ' head and for this viewer that was enough to avoid the film in theaters . But don't be fooled by that bit of chicanery and foolish choice of PR : this film has so much truth about our political system that it is a springboard for the best in comic writing . Tom Dobbs is a late night talk show host with a political slant ( read Bill Maher type etc ) who responds to an audience question ' Why don't you run for President ? ' by deciding to do so , much to the chagrin of this manager Jack Menken ( Christopher Walken in a wonderfully underplayed role at last ! ) and writer Eddie Langston ( Lewis Black ) . Dobbs is just fed up enough with the government being run by people who have to pay off the lobbyists that get them elected and the big corporate supporters and spend money on everything BUT the people they serve : he seems to be as likely a candidate as any - and the public via email and media support prove him correct . He debates as an Independent candidate with both the Democrat and Republican and wins the debate hands down . AND he is elected . But there is a problem : The new voting system is by a computer company run by Alan Stewart ( Jeff Goldblum ) and workers Eleanor Green ( Laura Linney is a terrific role ) and Danny ( the hunky and fine David Alpay ) . Eleanor discovers a glitch in the computer program that reveals that Dobbs did not indeed win the election and the rest of the film is how she confronts Dobbs with the truth and how Dobbs and crew deal with it . Suffice it to say that Dobbs ' manner of coping makes us wish that he indeed were the President ! The cast is strong and for this viewer the fine balance between comedy and true drama that writer / director Barry Levinson achieves is not only the stuff of fine film making : it is also wise and should be viewed by a very wide audience . Robin Williams manages to be both his inimitable funny self as well as offer a touching three-dimensional performance of a citizen at odds with the current political system . And Laura Linney adds yet another fine role to her ever-increasing repertoire . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Coping with Madness	CANVAS is an autobiographical story by writer / director Joseph Greco and knowing that fact helps to forgive some of the weaknesses of the film . The story - how a family copes with the presence of paranoid schizophrenia and survives - comes from the heart and is as frank a film about the subject of mental illness as any out there . And for all the inherent tendencies to play it as a soap opera , the overriding effect is one of sharing lives challenged by the presence of a crushing disease . Mary Marino ( Marcia Gay Harden ) has been afflicted with paranoid schizophrenia for nearly two years and her disease has affected her marriage to her working husband John ( Joe Pantoliano in his best role to date ) and her eleven year old son Chris ( Devon Gearhart ) : John misses work to care for Mary and still pay for her mounting hospitalization and medical bills and Chris suffers abuse form his mocking school friends , frequently having to explain away his mother's erratic behavior . Mary paints ( therapy ) the same scene repeatedly , hears voices , and finally refuses to stay on her meds , a fact that results in her long-term hospitalization in a Psychiatric Hospital . John and Chris continue to love Mary despite the radical changes in their lives and each finds a means of coping : John goes on sick leave to build a sailboat for his wife and son in his backyard ( he and Mary met and fell in love on a sailboat ) , and Chris takes up one of Mary's hobbies - sewing patches on shirts - and finds an audience and acceptance and income at his school . How the father and son survive and conquer their challenge presented by the mental illness of Mary serves to provide the ending to this story . Each of the actors is excellent , especially Pantoliano . Harden is a solid actress but the script fails to capture the essence of her response to her disease . The film feels disjointed and inconsistent and has holes of undeveloped subplots and lines of thought that keep the movie grounded . But knowing that the story is true encourages the viewer to forgive the flaws and appreciate the tough subject matter that should help every viewer to better understand the effect of mental illness on a family . Grady Harp
In Memoriam : Akira Kurasawa	' Umi wa miteita ' ( ' The Sea is Watching ' ) was Akira Kurasawa's swansong to film : his adaptation of his favored novelist Shugoro Yamamoto's story into a screenplay he intended to film was his final mark he left on a brilliant career . Director Kei Kumai pays homage to both Kurosawa and Yamamoto in presenting this visually stunning transformation of word to image . Set in 19th century Japan , the story explores the lives of the women of a Geisha house whose sole purpose in life is to earn money by pleasuring men . The house is run by an older couple who are genteel and the geishas are an enchanting group of women who know their trade and take pride in their careers . Each has a reason for turning to the life of geisha . Oshin ( Nagiko Tono ) supports her family who live in a neighboring village , Kikuno ( Misa Shimizu ) has customers both good and evil whom she manages to sustain with her stories of her higher caste . Oshin befriends an endangered samurai , falls in love with the gentle fellow , only to find that he must not marry out of his caste and leaves his pleasures with Oshin to marry his promised betrothed . Oshin's heart bruises easily but is always supported emotionally and physically / monetarily by Kikuno and the other geishas . A handsome samurai Ryosuke ( Masatoshi Nagase ) enters Oshin's life and develops the first trusted and devoted relationship with her . Kikuno is beset by problems , deciding whether to accept the humble love of an old man who wishes to marry her , and coping with a rich but abusive customer . All the while the sea is watching and as a typhoon destroys the geisha house and street , Oshin and Kikuno sit atop the roof waiting for the promised rescue by Ryosuke . The manner in which the story ends is one of sacrifice , love , and devotion . The sea is watching and will find protection for true love . The photography by Kazuo Okuhara is breathtakingly beautiful : night scenes with glowing lanterns and colorful geisha interiors are matched with recurring glimpses of the sea both calm and turbulent . The acting is a bit strained for Edo art , but the characters are well created and keep the story credible . The one distraction which is definitely NOT something Kurosawa would have condoned is the tacky Western music score that sounds like cheap soap opera filler except for the isolated moments when real Japanese music on authentic instruments graces the track . But in the end there is enough of Kurosawa's influence to imbue this film with his brand of dreamlike wonder that will always maintain his importance on world cinema . Grady Harp
History as a Mood Piece	There is not a whole lot of story to the cinematic adaptation of Stacy Peralta's memoir of his experience in the mid 1970s with the popularization of skateboarding . Nor is there a whole lot of character development in these teenagers addicted to skateboarding among other things . But what LORDS OF DOGTOWN is , is a spectacular cinematic excursion into the risks and exaltations of the sport of championship skateboarding : watching the thrills of these kids doing dangerous leaps , twists , airborne stunts in empty swimming pools is truly entertaining . The film is set in 1975 when surfing was all the rage , especially in Venice , CA where one Skip ( Heath Ledger ) owns a surfboard shop . He befriends a scrappy bunch of teenagers who live their lives for skateboarding along Venice Beach and in private homes where empty swimming pools ( this was the era of water conservation ! ) provide provocative arenas for their skills . The lead among them is Jay ( Emile Hirsch ) who is out to explore new challenges and when he and his confrères Stacy ( John Robinson ) , Tony ( Victor Rusak ) , and Sid ( Michael Angarano ) demonstrate the way skateboarding pleases crowds and girls , Skip cashes in on the enterprise by forming Zephyr , a club for championship skateboarding and enters his groupie into the competition circuit . As the boys gain fame they are tempted away from Skip into higher profile gigs and the group disintegrates only to reform after a tragedy befalls one of them . The screenplay was written by Stacy Peralta ( and that may explain why his role is a bit too goodie-two-shoes when compared to the antics of the other boys ) and while there isn't a lot of dialogue of significance , there is a lot of communication very much in tune with the historic time of the action . Catherine Hardwicke has an amazing sense of the teenage attitude and vulnerability and keeps the story ' skating ' with staggering momentum . The cast is uniformly fine : Heath Ledger shows he can be something other than the Hollywood leading man type and Emile Hirsch , Victor Rusak , and John Robinson are all on target with their roles . Newcomer Michael Angarano shows the promise in this film that resulted in his superb role in the current ' One Last Thing ' - his screen presence is magnetic . In all this is a recreation of a wild period of life in a bizarre era staged in a rickety old version of Venice , CA and it gives the viewer a slice of atmosphere that will likely not be re-created as well . Grady Harp
High Scores for Honesty and Simplicity in a Meaningful Dialogue	10 ITEMS OR LESS was made in two weeks on a shoestring budget by writer / director Brad Silberling , just a little film shot in Carson , CA that feels like the entire story was improvised . . . in the best sense of the word . Silberling had the good fortune to pair veteran actor Morgan Freeman , in between his big projects , with Spanish actress Paz Vega , and the result is a dialogue between two people from different vantages who manage to enhance the life of the other . Morgan Freeman plays himself - yet part of the comedy is that he is depicted as an actor who has been out of work for four years , scouting a location for a little ' filler film ' to get back into the flow of things . His ' role ' is to be that of a market manager and he is dropped off at seedy market in Carson where he encounters , among others , one Scarlet , the girl at the argumentative 10 Items or Less checkout line . Not only is Scarlet tired of her static job , she is also generally angry about her philandering husband ( Bobby Cannavale ) , currently sleeping with Scarlet's lazy co-worker ( Anne Dudek ) , and her lack of ability to get a decent job elsewhere . The two pair after a few shared problems and off they go on a ' road trip ' that results in each of the characters growing from the presence and life story of the other . It is a simple story , simply told , but because of the tender bonding between Freeman and Paz it works very well . This is one of those little films about human relationships where being vulnerable to change and exchange is the message . It is well worth viewing , and this is a DVD that has featurettes that are touching , informative , and comic - a pleasure to view . Grady Harp
A Beautifully Acted , Disturbing Story About Obsessive Mothering	Kevin Bacon directs this bizarre story adapted by Hannah Shakespeare from Victoria Redel's novel about maternal obsession providing his wife Kyra Sedgwick with a role to spotlight just how fine an actress she truly is . The story is disturbing but vitally interesting . There are problems with the film , the most annoying one being that the dialogue is practically inaudible due to the miking and , more so , due to the musical score which covers all the lines to the point of making the movie seem like a silent movie with music from the pit ! Such a shame , because it SEEMS like this is a good script with a lot to say . Emily ( Kyra Sedgwick ) is damaged goods , a woman neglected as a child who is determined to have a baby and raise it on her own , lavishing the child with all the affection and attention she desperately missed . After numerous attempts to get pregnant from any available man , she finally succeeds impregnation with Campbell Scott and gives birth to Paul ( Dominic Scott Kay ) who becomes her entire reason for living . She sequesters Paul form the world , gives him everything a child could want - except association with peers . Her obsession grows to the point of mental illness and the results are devastating . Along the way Emily and Paul encounter people who seek to intervene in their lives : these people are played with great style by cameo roles of Sandra Bullock , Oliver Platt , Kevin Bacon , Marisa Tomei , Matt Dillon , Blair Brown and even some of the Bacon's own children ! It is a star cast obviously committed to Kevin Bacon's vision of this star vehicle for Sedgwick . The pacing , cinematography , and acting are all first rate . If only the ugly and senseless music hadn't submerged the dialogue ( oddly enough the score was written by Michael Bacon ! ) , this would be an Oscar contender .
More then just another re-telling of the quasi-factual Amityville Horror	Just the name of this film constitutes a long sigh - ' How many times are they going to make this hokey story into yet another film ? ' And yet the current team of director Andrew Douglas , screenwriter Scott Kosar ( based on Jay Anson's novel ) and a cast of fresh faces to the genre carry off this much told tale with vigor and a good dollop of tension . For starters the film opens with the re-enactment of the ' actual crime ' . Apparently in 1974 Ronald DeFeo ( here Brendan Donaldson ) murdered his parents and siblings in a terrific old house in Amityville , NY . One year later the Lutz family discovers their dream house and buys it outright , opening their next 28 days to visions of ghosts , terror , demons , hallucinations and pathological changes among themselves until they finally flee the haunted house . From the start we know that contractor George Lutz - Ryan Reynolds - ( the new husband of Kathy ) - Melissa George - has problems establishing himself as the ' stepfather ' to reluctant children Billy ( Jesse James ) , Michael ( Jimmy Bennett ) and Chelsea ( Chloë Grace Moretz ) . Once the family is ensconced in the house Chelsea begins to play with the ghost of Jodie DeFeo ( Isabel Conner ) and George's personality changes as a result of the house's curse . It all comes down to terror in the requisite thunder , lightning and rain of all horror films until the family hits crisis state and leaves the house behind . The ghost effects are well done and the cinematography by Peter Lyons Collister and the musical score by Steve Jablonsky create a dark , ominous atmosphere . But the real reason to watch this little thriller is the work of Ryan Reynolds as George , released from his usual silly potty mouth roles in teenie films to show that he indeed can act , and keep his own brand of edgy humor intact - and that is no slight feat . Fortunately he is given the opportunity to display his extraordinarily hunky physique throughout the film , reason enough to see the movie ! Melissa George is likewise excellent as the tortured mother and is a perfect foil for Reynolds . Not a great film , but certainly one that exceeds expectations set by previous forays into this overused story . Grady Harp
A Film for Grinding your Teeth and Scratching your Head	Noah Baumbach creates strange films , movies that are low budget in appearance ( except for the sterling casts he assembles ) , dicey stories about dysfunctional people ( and there is obviously a mirror here for seeing our own dysfunctional traits ) , moods that suggest the films of Ingmar Bergman shot with camera work that blurs the line of reality and fantasy , and in the end films that initiate discussion ( both arguing for and against the quality of time the viewers have just spent ) . His are message films and while they may not entertain the mass number of filmgoers , they are an important aspect of the new American cinema . Novelist Margot ( Nicole Kidman ) and her son Claude ( Zane Pais , in an impressive film debut ) are traveling to Margot's semi-estranged sister's wedding : hippie Pauline ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) is marrying the bizarre artist wannabe Malcolm ( Jack Black ) in the backyard of the girl's old home somewhere in New England . The sisters have a rocky relationship , strained by family secrets that include a distant mother and strange sister and a possibly pedophilia father , and strained by Margot's success as a writer ( though she has failed in her marriage to the nebulous Jim - John Turturro - and is having an affair with another writer Dick - Ciarán Hinds - whose Harvard daughter Maisy - Halley Feiffer - is an oversexed thorn in the family's eyes ) , and strained by Pauline's lack of direction away from her past as a ' woman of loose morals ' to the discovery that she is pregnant by the loser Malcolm . The entire story takes place on the weekend of Pauline's planned wedding and everything that could possibly go wrong does . Each of the sister's idiosyncrasies and maladjustments to life come into play and the only characters who seem to be able to make sense of any of the behavior abnormalities are the sisters ' children - Claude and Pauline's daughter Ingrid ( Flora Cross ) . If there is a focal point that rises out of all this dysfunctional behavior it is the manner in which Margot and Claude are bonded as mother and son - not a perfect balance of roles but one of great tenderness and intention . Yes , there are some strangely comic aspects to this story , dark though they may be , but the overall impression is one of trying to understand why each of these strange characters has chosen their paths in life - and that opens the forum for viewer introspection and excellent post-viewing conversation . Much of the success of this little film is due to the fine performances by Kidman , Leigh , Pais , Turturro , Hinds , and Black . It is a very strong cast able to accompany us on this often confusing journey . Grady Harp
A Surprise Fable to Discover	PENELOPE may at first glance seem like one of the few summer releases on DVD to merit watching , but though the selections on the shelves are inexplicably thin , this little modern day fable is so well made that it deserves wide attention . Though the plot is rather thin and predictable , the choice cast and production values gives it a luster missing from most films of the ' romantic comedy ' genre . The story ( written by Leslie Caveny ) is narrated by Penelope ( Christina Ricci ) who takes us back to the days of a curse placed on the wealthy Wilhern family who refused to allow a son to marry the impregnated common girl he loves and opts instead for a fellow blueblood . The rejected girl leaps of a cliff and the girl's mother places a curse on the family : the firstborn child , if a daughter , born to the clan will have the face of a pig that can be changed only if she is able to find lasting love . Years of firstborn sons trace the curse to contemporary London where the Wilherns ( Catherine O'Hara and Richard E . Grant ) finally give birth to a firstborn daughter , a dear child who indeed has the nose of a pig . The parents convince a reporter Lemon ( Peter Dinklage ) that the child died and was cremated and raise Penelope hidden from the real world outside . Penelope loves life and fills her enclosed space with joy until she becomes of courting age : the parents then make every attempt to secretly introduce her to wealthy young boys , each of whom flees when they see the pig girl in person . Lemon tracks the events , knowing that Penelope still lives , and convinces some cohorts ( including Simon Woods as the wealthy but squeamish Edward ) to attempt to get photographs of her . Finally a likely prospect appears in the person of Max ( James McAvoy ) who apparently has squandered a fortune on gambling and is in desperate need of money . Max begins a cautious but consistent courtship of Penelope and is even able to look at her without disgust , but when Penelope finds her possible beau is in the game for the money , Penelope flees the ' prison ' mansion and goes into the world for the first time ( her nose is kept covered with a scarf ) . She finds the strange world fascinating , makes friends with a barkeep and a wild living Annie ( Reese Witherspoon ) , and gradually is able to remove her scarf cover only to find that people like her despite her odd appearance . The concept of self - acceptance is well delivered . The only problem with the story is the manner in which the fable ' sells out ' in the all too gratuitous ending . But the message remains and the films glows with a magic in the way that fables should , much to the credit of sensitive director Mark Palansky and a very fine cast . Grady Harp
An Evocative Mood Piece	Robert Towne's obvious love affair with John Fante's Depression Era novel , ASK THE DUST , is evident throughout this somewhat over-long film . While the story is a bit clumsy and self-indulgent with so many sidebars that the momentum of the movie gets bogged down in the telling , there are enough fine attributes to make it a recommended evening of reminiscence about Los Angeles , the City of the Angels in the 1930s . Arturo Bandini ( Colin Farrell ) narrates the tale of a lad from Colorado with one published story in a magazine edited by H . L . Mencken who moves to Los Angeles ' Bunker Hill apartments to write his big novel . The city of LA has never seemed so strange as it seems with Caleb Deschanel's magnificent photography outlining a city filled with dust blown miscreants - people with dreams at varying stages of dissolution . Arturo quickly becomes penniless , is pestered for rent by landlady Mrs . Hargraves ( Dame Eileen Atkins ) and for handouts by drunkard Hellfrick ( Donald Sutherland ) , and still a virgin he plies his vision as a writer in a local café where he encounters the beautiful Camilla ( way too much of a play on the character of Dumas ' ' Camille ' . . . ) . The two play a battle of wits and insults to cover their apparent infatuation with each other : Mexican Camilla is looking for a wealthy ' white man ' to raise her out of her illiterate station and Arturo is looking for a sexual encounter to spur his writing . During their extended ' courting ' Arturo is vamped by Vera Rivkin ( Idina Menzel ) , a Jewish housekeeper with grossly deformed legs who dreams of a man who will call her beautiful , and in a touching encounter Arturo displays the kind vulnerability lying under his rather callous and naive exterior . Arturo and Camilla at last connect , and in a Laguna beach house they fall under the spell of love , a state that ends tragically , like the dust from the desert winds burying all hopes of the people of Southern California . The story is a bit clunky and the dialogue feels forced at times but it is always a pleasure to see the work of Farrell , Hayek , Atkins , and Sutherland . The true beauty of this truly beautiful film is in the atmosphere and the mood captured by Towne and Deschanel . Their work offers a mood piece that forgives some of the awkwardness of the threadbare story and shows off the actors well . The film may move a bit too slowly for some , but for others , this is a moment of history well captured . Grady Harp
Role Reversal or ' Walk a Mile in My Shoes '	Marc Moody has written and directed a film that is so earnest and reaches so high for making a significant statement that it is difficult not to admire the result . ALMOST NORMAL is so obviously a gay version of ' Back to the Future ' by its own admission that it becomes a bit tedious and silly , and when accompanied by low budget and tenuous production values it is a little squeaky in achieving its self-imposed high standards , it comes very close to being a forgettable effort . So why is it so popular ? It has spirit ! Brad ( J . Andrew Keitch in a fine film debut ) is a 40-year-old closeted gay college professor in Nebraska who lives in fear of derision and is frustrated he is unable to live his life in a happy relationship . His good friend Julie ( Joan Lauckner ) is supportive and encourages Brad to return home for his parent's wedding anniversary . Brad does so reluctantly , finds the usual homophobic atmosphere and in a moment of weakness , drinks too much and has an auto accident . Miraculously , when he awakens , he has the appearance of a handsome high school kid and when he wanders into the world he discovers that there has been a major reversal : now it is normal to be gay and grossly distasteful to be a straight breeder . Even his parents are gay with breeder hosts for procreation purposes . Brad sees reverse discrimination now , is sought after by the high school jock Roland ( Tim Hammer ) , enjoys the freedom of being openly gay , but meets the now new Julie and is strangely attracted to her , having to hide his new ' straight alliance ' in a new closet . And the resolution of this new dilemma is the message of the film . Everything about the idea of the film makes the viewer want to love it , and it is a sweet little diversion of a film with some thinking material about prejudices . It is rough and hampered by many technical and casting and scripted errors , but it does give newcomer Marc Moody a strong grounding for making further films about gay life that seem to appear like seeds of ideas throughout this film . It needs polish but it is a good time and offers a wide audience a better perspective on what it feels like to live a life as an outsider . Grady Harp
Stories of racism , infidelity , aging , the effects of the Vietnam War , drugs : Why RFK's death was so impactful	BOBBY as written and directed ( and starring ) Emilio Estevez is not simply a recreation of the fateful night June 6 , 1968 when Bobby Kennedy was shot , though that event is meticulously dissected as the sun dawns on Los Angeles ' Ambassador Hotel on that day . This film is a series of vignettes of the lives of many people ( 22 examples shine ) whose hope for a better future than that of a country undergoing disintegration on many levels were shattered . It is about ' little people ' , people with choices whose responses to the death of a hero is devastating . Racism ( Christian Slater vs Laurence Fishburne vs interaction with Freddy Rodríguez and Jacob Vargas ) ; hippie / white collar drug abuse ( Ashton Kutcher dealing LSD to Brian Geraghty and Shia LaBeouf , Demi Moore's alcoholism defeating her marriage to Emilio Estevez and career as a lounge singer ) ; aging and the problems of ' useless old people ' ( Harry Belafonte and Anthony Hopkins ) ; adultery ( hotel manager William Macy married to beautician Sharon Stone yet having an affair with switchboard operator Heather Graham ) ; marriages teetering on commercialism ( Martin Sheen and Helen Hunt ) ; young political aspirants basing futures on RFK ( Joshua Jackson and Nick Cannon ) ; and the extremes to which young men will go to avoid being sent to Vietnam ( Elijah Wood and Lindsay Lohan ) - these are the main characters we get to know as they prepare for the evening's party for RFK and then suffer the explosive effect of the shooting by Sirhan Sirhan ( David Kobzantsev ) . The power of the film lies in the impact Bobby Kennedy had on all of these people who represent the rest of a nation . Estevez wisely uses film footage from life to project the speech and presence of RFK : using an actor to depict him would have made the effect less sharp . But in the end , as it seems apparent from Estevez ' script , the power comes from the messages in the voice-over of Kennedy's own speeches , words to offer hope and a chance for resolution of the many conflicts that threatened to destroy the US . Would that there were minds with such thoughts speaking today when a leader is so desperately needed ! The film has flaws ( it would be difficult for a two hour enactment of a well known yet partially fictionalized incident not to ) . But the message is pungent and clear : we MUST care for each other as a country and forgo the alienation that is so rampant . A very fine film for thought . Grady Harp
A Satisfying Mixture of Fact Embellished with Fiction	Gillian Armstrong makes fine movies : she is a director who knows how to tell stories and enhance what appears on the surface to be reality with a healthy dose of fantasy . Her sense of pacing and image creation adds substance to her tales that sometimes border on bizarre . DEATH DEFYING ACTS uses the character of Harry Houdini as the stimulus of to tell a story about the folk of Edinburgh , Scotland at a time when stage shows were embraced much the way America was using vaudeville - an escape from the rather dreary state of living to a world of entertainment and love of magic . Mary McGarvie ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) and her daughter Benji ( Saoirse Ronan ) survive in Edinburgh by picking pockets not merely for cash but for information to use in their act in the little theaters . Mary does exotic dances then uses her ' gifts ' to see into the ' other world ' of people in the audience ( Benji does the investigative work and is the prompter for the séance like acts Mary performs ) . Their idol is Harry Houdini ( Guy Pearce ) and when they learn Houdini is coming to Edinburgh to ' perform ' , they discover Houdini is promising $10 , 000 to anyone who can prove they have the ability to look into the future ( or past ) . Houdini's manager Sugarman ( Timothy Spall ) arranges Houdini's water tank escape acts and other acts of ' magic ' , and when Mary and Benji arrange to meet Houdini , Sugarman is aware they are charlatans . How Mary and Benji work their way into Houdini's belief system and love life with their con game forms the meat of the sparing . The atmosphere of the film is well captured by cinematographer Haris Zambarloukos who understands who to balance the mire of the streets of 1926 Edinburgh with the gorgeous fantasies used during Houdini's escape acts . The musical score by Cezary Skubiszewski is a terrific mixture of Scottish tunes and instruments with solid melodramatic mood music . Pearce , Zeta-Jones , Spall and Ronan turn in excellent performances . This is an unjustly overlooked film that , while not being a masterpiece , serves up a fine story well told . Grady Harp
The Pleasure of Their Company	It must take courage to wade through an overstuffed yet flimsy novel such as Jennifer Weiner's IN HER SHOES and find that without all the paraphernalia bruising the essential message there is a fine story to be told . Such is the case of director Curtis Hanson ( 8 Mile , LA Confidential , The Wonder Boys ) who consistently pares down stories and focuses on significant human issues . He is greatly aided by Susannah Grant's fine screenplay and by a cast of actors who are at their peak . For all the PR that ruined this film in the theaters ( the Magnum Opus ' chick flick ' , about shoes , silly graphics , etc ) , this is in truth a fine drama about sibling rivalry and sibling devotion and the cruel effects self-loathing bifurcated parents unwittingly have on their offspring . Rose Feller ( Toni Collette ) is a bright but dumpy lawyer , successful in her career but miserable in her social life . Her sister Maggie ( Cameron Diaz ) is her opposite : a silly , shallow , drunken , dishonest party girl who has never been able to hold down even the most menial job for her obsession with men and inappropriate sexual situations . Moving in with Rose out of desperation , Maggie turns Rose's life into chaos : the two fight , loathe each other , split and yet each of the disparate sisters also acknowledges that they are , in the end , all that each has . When Rose finally throws Maggie out , Maggie moves to Florida to mooch off the grandmother ( Shirley MacLaine ) neither sister has ever known because of a long standing parental riff that has altered their lives more than they appreciate . The separation of the sisters by space offers each the chance to discover each other's value and the manner in which the two rejoin is the results of tough lessons learned . Collette , Diaz , and MacLaine each offer wholly professional , fully realized performances . The supporting cast is likewise fine and the keen directorial leadership by Hanson is evident . The film is grossly overlong ( 130 minutes filled with far too much repetitive excess ) and the opting for sentimentality as the film moves toward the finish is a bit off-putting , but the surprise here is that this is really a good movie ! Who would ever know form the PR and the associated bungling of the packaging ? Grady Harp
Coping : A Different Kind of Love Story	Petter Næss is a well established Norwegian director who is making is American debut with a sensitive , charming , endearing , warmly humorous love story between two wonderful people who just happen to have Asperger's Syndrome - a form of autism that impedes interpersonal relationships because of patterned responses to a world that is frighteningly challenging . We will be seeing more of this man's work ! With a screenplay written by the talented Ronald Bass we the audience are introduced to the world of ' paranormal ' people whose complex afflictions alienate them from the ' normal ' world - and therein lies one of the beauties of the film : what is the definition of normal ? Donald Morton ( Josh Hartnett ) is a bright mathematical genius recently graduated from college but whose impairment from Asperger's Syndrome keeps him from maintaining taxi cab driver jobs . He is kind and caring and has organized a group of similarly afflicted lonely people whose epicenter is the safety of Donald's group . The members of this group are beautifully enacted by Allen Evangelista , Sheila Kelley , Erica Leerhsen , John Carroll Lynch , Nate Mooney , Rusty Schwimmer , and Robert Wisdom . Into this group comes the very beautiful and flaky Isabelle ( Radha Mitchell ) whose joie de vivre enhances the mood of the group and captures the eye of Donald . They begin a tenuous courtship hampered by their inherent fears and frustrations but gradually they bond . Isabelle sees how bright Donald is and helps him get a job analyzing computer glitches for a kind employer ( Gary Cole ) . They find a house to make a home but when Donald begins to strive for a ' normal life ' , Isabelle is threatened and they part ways - until they discover their own special place in the world . The script is rapid-fire , laced with reality checks on Asperger's Syndrome , but more important it gives a credible story between two people . Both Josh Hartnett and Rhada Mitchell make these two characters completely believable . Nothing is pushed over the edge , largely due to the warmth and intelligence of their performances under Næss's direction . For those who have labeled Hartnett as just a pretty boy destined to play shallow roles a surprise in store : Hartnett really CAN act and hopefully he will continue to seek roles such as Donald and climb the ladder of success based on talent instead of just looks . Rhada Mitchell further proves her importance as one of today's important talents . This is a heartwarming story , an educational film for those unfamiliar with Asperger's Syndrome , and an opportunity to witness some fine ensemble acting . Grady Harp
An Intelligent , Thought-Provoking , Well Made Film	FIXING FRANK is somewhat of a rarity these days - a film well made form script to production that puts a hot topic on the table and challenges the viewer to think , all the while providing a very entertaining movie experience . The work began as a play by Ken Hayes who also adapted his play for the screen and while the ' opening up ' of a stage play on the cinematic format is successful , in many way the dialogue feels very theatrical and the method of production stagy . That fact may annoy some viewers : for this viewer it worked , allowing us to here the superb script delivered in its entirety without frosting it with unnecessary visuals . Credit director Michael Selditch for the creative approach to this filmed play . He keeps the story moving and integrated and draws exceptionally fine performances from his superb cast . In essence this is a three person film - two apposing therapists who are at opposite poles of dealing with the concept that being gay is an immutable inherited trait versus the possibility that with therapy the gay behavior can be changed to heterosexual behavior if the patient desires that ' change ' . Frank ( Andrew Elvis Miller ) , a writer who is in the process of exposing a therapist Dr . Aspey ( Dan Butler ) who claims he can ' cure ' gay men - at least according to Frank's lover Dr . Baldwin ( Paul Provenza ) , an activist gay therapist . Frank , coached by Baldwin , has sessions with Aspey with the idea of trapping him into revealing his ' damage ' to gay patients who have complained to Baldwin of Aspey's techniques . But what Frank discovers is a that Aspey deals with choices and changes on a strictly therapeutic angle , not basing claims for ' cures ' for a lifestyle he does not condemn . In the process of the ' therapy ' sessions , Frank grows into his own identity - a fact that alters his relationship with Baldwin and opens many closed doors of thought for all three characters - and us . The actors are all excellent : one wonders if they played these roles on the stage . The intermingling of the sessions with conversations outside of sessions is additive and while many may object to the theatrical use of placing all three actors on the screen simultaneously when a ' session ; is in progress , the format works well in allowing the script to be heard and maintain its punch . This is a thinkers ' movie , the concepts are controversial and may find some viewers anger points , but as a film it works exceptionally well . Grady Harp
Guy Ritchie and Style	A number of years ago young director Guy Ritchie changed mobster movies with his infectious LOCK , STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS and that twisted underbelly of London's crime population is back in full force with ROCKNROLLA . Ritchie's style - mixing rapid action , flashback explanations , loopy violence , wildly imaginative characters , and a near non-understandable collection of various accents from the British Isles coupled with an integral musical score - makes this tale of deceit , desperation , intrigue , vice in all forms , low on the food chain criminals at service in the line of polished professionals - a fast paced highly entertaining movie . The script ( yes , by Ritchie , too ) combines narration with live conversation , a trait that can be distracting , but that in Ritchie's hands adds a layer of commentary and needed background that helps the viewer keep the many bits and pieces of plots screwed together . The Old School crime lord is played by Tom Wilkinson in a role far different from his previous roles . His nemesis is the New School crime lord Russian Uri ( Karel Roden ) with odd demands and a ' lucky painting ' we never see . Gerard Butler pals with Idris Elba and the gay character Morne Botes in a back and forth series of thwarted attempts to gain status in the smarmy crime world headed by Wilkinson . The name character of Rocknrolla ( pop star Johnny Quid ) is well played by Toby Kebbell , Thandie Newton offers the touch of glamour as a twisted accountant , and Jeremy Piven , Chris Bridges ( Ludacris ) , Jimi Mistry and narrator / star Archie ( Mark Strong ) pull it all together . This film definitely has an audience for those who appreciate the skills of Ritchie as writer / director . For others , it may be a bit hard to follow the technique of dishing out this tangled tale . Grady Harp
Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome : The Movie	TRAUMA is one of those films that invokes mixed responses from audiences depending on their expectations : it seems to polarize people into love / hate categories . While not a great movie , TRAUMA has the courage to pose a storyline that is more involved with the interior aspects of a mind altered by physical events . We are asked to observe the world through the eyes of a battered brain which happens to belong to a man with a tattered past . If linear stories are preferred then this is not a film to recommend . For those viewers willing to crawl inside the malfunctioning mind , this film is mesmerizing and full of rewarding moments . Ben ( Colin Firth ) is seen in the opening flashbacks driving a car at night with his wife Elisa ( Naomie Harris ) . There is a car crash and Ben awakens from a coma in a hospital , convinced that Elisa is dead . He wanders the hospital , drawn to the morgue where the caretaker ( Cornelius Booth ) enhances the mystery of the place . Ben learns from the TV room that a famous singer Lauren Parris ( Alison David ) , for whom Elisa has been a dancer , has been murdered . His mind disintegrates and everything that follows is a mélange of delusion mixed with bits of reality that exquisitely define how the post traumatic stress syndrome can be driven to psychosis if not recognized and treated . Ben leaves the hospital ( or does he ? ) and continues his art career in a vast building undergoing reconstruction ( a building that has been a hospital . . . . ) , befriended by his mate Roland ( Sean Harris ) and by his landlady ' Charlotte ' ( Mena Suvari ) . More flashbacks ( mostly childhood memories ) occur as Ben talks things out with a ' psychiatrist ' ( whose face we never see . . . ) and during episodes with channeler Petra ( Brenda Fricker ) he is informed that Elisa is not dead . Ben becomes a suspect in the murder of Lauren Parris and his chasing after evidence ultimately leads to a series of disasters , a series of metaphors and delusions , all of which find Ben sitting back in the hospital where he started . Did any of this story really happen , or was it the fabrication of a mind traumatized to the brink of breaking ? That is left for the viewer to decide . Though plagued with some static moments and a lot of conversation buried in background music and sounds , Director Marc Evans with writer Richard Smith take us on a suspenseful journey , made all the more bizarre by some extraordinary camera work and tremendously inventive settings . Not a movie for everyone , but for those willing to enter the Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome mind , this case study is rewarding . Grady Harp
A Different Kind of Love Story	GEFANGEN ( LOCKED UP ) is a testy little German film that dares to push the envelope of NR rating , and given the concept of the story and the background of the writer / director Jörg Andreas making his first legitimate ( ie non-porn ) movie , it succeeds despite some technical shortcomings . No , it is not a film for those with issues concerning same-sex films , but for the target gay audience and for that audience eager to see innovative independent film-making adventures , LOCKED UP is well worth watching ! The setting is a prison somewhere in Germany and the story begins with the handcuffed young credit card fraud ' criminal ' Dennis ( Marcel Schlutt ) encountering his first entry into a prison . The tone of the film is set at the induction desk where Dennis is stripped and zealously ' inspected ! ' by the eager prison guards . He is then placed in a cell and begins his two-year prison term . Naturally the other prisoners ( all body builders ) on his bloc intimidate him into submission to their rules of the house . Through his cell window Dennis gazes on a fellow inmate , an African American hunk named Mike ( Mile Sale ) , in prison for a fifteen-year sentence for the murder of his wife , digging trenches . They make eye contact and there is a mutual interest . Gradually the two meet under the rigid time frames for the prisoners , talk , share coffee in Mike's room , and eventually respond to their mutual attraction . During one interlude they are observed by a guard envious of Mike's attention and affection for Dennis . And as the routine prison dramas go , the inmates polarize over the two men's connection . Dennis is brutally raped , talked into cooperating with the drug ring , but Dennis ' growing love for Mike is stronger than the resistance of both inmates and prison officials and they are eventually able to share a cell . Dennis ' mother visits her son , encourages him , and arranges for a lawyer to gain a shortened term for Dennis , a favor that Dennis greets with mixed emotions , as he does not want to leave his lover Mike as others have done . But in a tender scene Mike convinces Dennis that he is young and should accept the early release , an act of love that Dennis finally accepts . Dennis is released , but continues to visit Mike whom he loves and his love is reciprocated . The manner in which the film ends is yet another act of sacrifice and love and is best left unsaid . Both Marcel Schlutt and Mike Sale are handsome of face and body and spirit and the story benefits from their on-screen chemistry . In an extended Feature on the DVD each actor ( both openly gay ) discusses his approach to making the film , and as in the movie itself , these dialogues are in both German and English . The men speak frankly and bravely about their participation in gay porn movies , stating the sex scenes in the film are real-time and not simulated . People will argue about the propriety of this but keep in mind the story and the director's background and perhaps the film will be more readily viewed as an experimental genre . This is a different kind of love story and I think it works ! Grady Harp
' I did knock ' : A Delightfully Served Bit of Pastiche with Meat under the Frosting	Because of its silly packaging and dependency on graphics that appear to dumb down the prospective audience , NANNY McPHEE may not gain the position on the lineup of really good movies before the public right now . But for those who can ignore the packaging , inside is a DVD that is a smart , cleverly written with style and grace by star Emma Thompson ( based on the novels Nurse Matilda ) , directed with aplomb by Kirk Jones , and with a cast of irresistible , irascible children and adults , magical movie that is way over the top in color and slapstick in some places but remains a fluffy delight ! The story is simple on the surface : Colin Firth plays Mr . Brown a recently widowed father of seven children whose business ( a funeral director ) keeps him away from home , resulting in a clan of kids who are as boisterously misbehaved as any children ever encountered . All nannies hired run away in terror at encountering the children : their only constants are the scullery maid Evangeline ( Kelly Macdonald ) and the cook Mrs . Blatherwick ( Imelda Staunton ) . Brown is under the thumb of Aunt Adelaide ( Angela Lansbury ) who threatens to cut off her necessary financial support unless Brown remarries immediately . In a wonderfully otherworldly manner the name of Nanny McPhee resounds and the grossly unattractive , warty , obese and bucktoothed ( only one ! ) strange nanny appears to assist . She speaks softly and carries a big walking stick , an implement that can bring magical changes when tapped on the floor . She sates she will stay despite the fact the children need her but don't want her and will leave when the children want her but don't need her . The manner in which this gentle and odd nanny affects the changes she demands ( going to bed on time , getting up on time , saying please and thank you , etc ) works wonders - not only for the children but also for Brown's response to the demands of the aunt . Emma Thompson is wonderful as the ugly but gradually beautified nanny , Colin Firth shines as the father , and the supporting cast of seven superb child actors ( Thomas Sangster , Eliza Bennett , Jennifer Rae Daykin , Raphael Coleman , Sam Honywood , Holly Gibbs , and the infant sisters Barnes ) , Imelda Stanuton ( ' Vera Drake ' ) , Celia Imrie ( ' Calendar Girls ' ) , Angela Lansbury , and even Derek Jacobi and Patrick Barlow in small supporting roles make this fairy tale entertaining and instructive ! ' Tis a pity the movie sinks to recreation of the old and very tired food fight sequence at the wedding , but after all this is mainly a film for children and as such guarantees belly laughs . It is a lot of fun and has some important lessons for children AND adults , and it makes for a light but delightful evening of sharing . Grady Harp , June 06
Blood , guts , mutilation , speed chases : CRANK tops them all !	Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor may be fairly new at the game of writing and directing as a team , but if CRANK is any indication of what they can do , they probably have the genre sewn up ! Definitely not a film for the squeamish or the easily offended by potty mouth dialog , CRANK delivers its own brand of breakneck action and very funny comedic outtakes into a platform for the likes of Jason Statham , so well remembered for his role in Transporter / s , and a cast that gives him fine support . Chev Chelios ( Statham , in fine fettle but oddly keeping his shirt on to for once cover his physique . . . ) is a contract killer who has just snuffed a man the local drug dealers in LA are not happy about : relationships between LA and Hong Kong have been strained . As a result one peppy bodybuilder hunk named Verona ( Jose Pablo Cantillo ) injects him with an adrenaline-blocking drug that gives Chev only an hour to live . And thus starts the action : Chev must find medication or an antidote within the hour or he will die . Chev informs his girlfriend Eve ( gifted comedienne Amy Smart ) of his crisis but Eve is so ditzy she doesn't comprehend , leaving very little brain cell action to help Chev . The story is a bit shallow but that really doesn't get in the way when the purpose of the movie is to see just how violent and how many kills and disasters can be created before the final bizarre ending . Statham and Smart make a great team , giving some of the best humor imaginable in a story that is basically humorless . Good casting here . But also the actors who portray the ancillary parts - Cantillo as the embodiment of buff evil , Efren Ramirez as Chev's reliable ally , Dwight Yoakam as his disjointed doctor , Carlos Sanz as the head bad guy , Reno Wilson , Edi Gathegi - are finely directed by this team of Neveldine and Taylor , making sure that there is just enough parody and gag lines to keep our minds active during the barrage of mayhem . You have to like action thrillers to watch this one , but it is one of the better flicks of its kind to come out in a while ! Grady Harp
Things Left Behind - ' Good Stuff '	PERSONAL EFFECTS is a solid little film written by director David Hollander and the fine novelist Rick Moody . The premise is a study of how the traumatic deaths of people affect those left behind . The story is well told , allows the audience to explore the group therapy approach offered to families of violently killed people - the various means of responding to loss , the differing reactions from those who cannot let go of the hate they have for losing a loved one , and introduces an interesting concept of having one of the characters who narrates the film be a deaf mute young man ! Gloria ( Kathy Bates ) is the mother of twins - the girl was been brutalized and murdered and the boy Andrew ( Ashton Kuchter ) has left his career as a wrestler to return to the scene of the crime to mourn his sister and to demand the perpetrator be convicted and imprisoned : his career has been put on hold and he ekes out a living dressed as a chicken for a fast food chicken restaurant . During the ongoing twin's trial , Andrew meets Linda ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) whose alcoholic husband has been killed and she is left to support her teenage deaf mute son Clay ( Spencer Hudson ) . Through series of grieving meetings and periods of isolation on the part of each of the characters , each finds ways to support the other and a love affair develops between the older Linda and the younger Andrew as he agrees to accompany her to her various weddings for which she serves a planner . How these characters comes to grips with resolution of their losses is well tied together by film's end . This is not a great movie , but the performances by the leads are quite fine . This is a movie with a message , one that delves into territory with which many are not familiar , and for that reason alone it is well worth watching . Grady Harp
Sergio Leone Meets the Keystone Cops in Canton	KUNG FU HUSTLE is clearly one of the silliest , funny , genuinely well-produced comedies to come around for a long time . It is so very refreshing to lose yourself in this farce knowing that the entire purpose of the film is to entertain . But as in all good comedy there is also a message . Talented director / writer ( with Tsang Kan Cheong ) / star Stephen Chow has the whole concept of Kung Fu as entertainment down pat . With the brilliant choreography of Yuen Wo Ping as partner , Chow tells a skeletal tale of two wannabe criminals ( Chow himself and his obese sidekick Chi Chung Lam ) who will stop at nothing to become members of the Canton mafia Axe Gang . They blunder into a hick town run by a smarmy landlord and his bellicose wife to find someone to kill , as that is the only way they can join the Axe Gang . But this sleepy little town is unafraid of gangs , why ? - because they happen to be the home of some expert Kung Fu practitioners . After some absurd events the Axe Gang happens into the town only to come up against impossible odds and a lot of hilarious surprises . The choreography and setting parodies everything in the Hollywood repertoire : the spaghetti westerns of Sergio Leone , High Noon antics , Busby Berkeley type staging , Keystone Cops zany shenanigans , Marital Arts films - name it , the film takes a shot and the shot outdoes the original ! The color and cinematography are terrific , the musical score ( to which Chow also contributed ! ) is a little masterwork of ancient Chinese instruments garnished with contemporary sounds , and the actors , when not engaged in the nonstop fighting sequences , just seem to be having the best time being silly . For pure diversion and giggling entertainment , spend an evening in the company of Stephen Chow and crew . Recommended , even for serious movie aficionados ! Grady Harp
Becoming Open To Love : Good Film Despite Rough Edges	Garth Maxwell co-wrote and directed this 1998 New Zealand film and despite some rough edges in the production process and in areas of weak scripting and format , the message of repairing our individual perception problems in order to be open to acknowledge and embrace love when it comes along is a story worth telling . In the case of this film , it is three stories worth telling ! Mark ( Dean O'Gorman ) is a wannabe songwriter , poet , druggie , and hedonist who has problems with intimacy ( we are unsure whether he is comfortable with his sexuality , whether he has been a hustler to support his nebulous lifestyle . . . ) . He is introduced to us by his ' pals ' - two lesbian performers Fig ( Nancy Brunning ) and Sally ( Sophia Hawthorne ) - in a narrative way and who proceed to tell us Mark's history as it has developed in their eyes ( this is a bit stagy and awkward , but it gets the story rolling ) . Mark is the heartthrob of Stephen ( Simon Prast ) , an older , more mature man than Mark who tries to lead him into a productive life . Into town comes New Zealand's most popular singer Katie Keen ( Rena Owen ) who has come home from a long stay in Los Angeles where her career has been on the skids . She is no longer young , no longer has engagements , and is in need of her closest friend Stephen's consolation . Katie must confront her age and her career state , Stephen must move on his deep feelings for Mark , Mark must get off the wild life and focus on what matters , and Fig and Sally need to get their amateur status boosted . The cycle of these needs is magnified when the five go to a beach house and Katie's ' boyfriend ' Eddie ( Simon Westaway ) shows up with some surprise news that changes Katie's life , allows Stephen and Mark to confront their blocks , and provides an opportunity for Fig and Sally they least expected . The cast is for the most part very strong . There are moments of rather bad music performance that could have been edited without diminishing the story , and there are some script techniques that get in the way . But by and large this is a feel good movie that deals with relationships of all types and offers light to people who think they are incapable of love . Maxwell is saying to be ready when love comes along !
Tongue in Cheek Adventure Sequel	Unlike many of the inevitable sequels that follow popular expensive movies , THE LEGEND OF ZORRO is happily a lot of fun to watch . Though overlong in excess of two hours , and though the story line is pushed beyond tolerable limits , it is easy to forgive the many weaknesses of the film and just enjoy the verbal and physical jousting between Antonio Banderas and Catherine Zeta-Jones . The story this time ' round concerns the broken promise Alejandro de la Vega ( Banderas ) made to his wife Elena ( Zeta-Jones ) at their marriage ten years ago : Alejandro would give up his dangerous life as the masked Zorro . But the upcoming opportunity of statehood for California is at stake and so , of course , the five bells ring and Zorro is on his faithful steed Tornado to right the wrongs . Elena informs him that if he goes on another mission , he may as well not come home , despite the fact that they now have a son Joaquin ( Adrian Alonso ) . But Zorro rides and gradually we discover the covert underpinnings of the cause to which Zorro is called . There is a newcomer in town , one Frenchman Armand ( Rufus Sewell ) who is mysteriously tied to the worst of all possible deeds with the aid of the smarmy Jacob McGivens ( Nick Chinlund ) . . . . Elena , no slouch of a wimpy wife , joins in the action in a wily way , and ultimately with the help of good priests Brother Ignacio ( Alberto Reyes ) and especially Frey Felipe ( Julio Oscar Mechoso ) good triumphs over evil ( surprise ! ) . There are some well staged duels and fighting episodes and some tender moments about family , especially father / son repartee , but the ingredient that makes these Zorro films work is the fact that Banderas and Zeta-Jones look like their have such a good time . There are many hilarious lines in the most unexpected places . No , this is not a great movie , and despite the fact that yet another sequel is probably planned , enough is enough . But it is entertaining in its lighthearted way . Grady Harp , February 06
' We all come out of Gogol's Overcoat '	Jhumpa Lahiri's very popular novel THE NAMESAKE has been successfully adapted for the screen by Sooni Taraporevala and the gifted director Mira Nair has gathered a fine cast to capture the spirit of the original story of family commitment despite cultural changes and challenges . Some of the novel's impact is lost on the big screen , but the tender message remains at the end . In India a gifted young singer Ashima ( Tabu ) follows her family's rules of matchmaking and marries the quiet Ashoke ( Irfan Khan ) , and soon after the wedding festivities are over the couple depart to New York for Ashoke's career . The cultural and climate changes are a shock to both , but their marriage soon produces a boy child who , instead of being named traditionally by the grandmother in India , has to have a name assigned in the New York hospital in order to be released with a birth certificate . Out of desperation , Ashoke decides to temporarily name him Gogol ( Ashoke's favorite author ) - played as a child by Sohan Chatterjee - , and the family of three soon becomes a family of four with the arrival of their daughter Sonia ( Sahira Nair ) . While the parents maintain the customs of their Bengali heritage , the two children struggle with adapting to their preferred life in America and the conflict between parent and child is magnified by the cultural disparities . As young Gogol grows toward manhood ( now Kal Penn ) he favors Western ways and becomes involved with a non-Indian girl Maxine ( Jacinda Barrett ) and her family . Gogol tires of the critical comments about his name and decides to change his name to the more traditional Nick - further evidence of his separation from his background . But family tragedies occur and Gogol finds himself drawn to his mother and to his roots . When Gogol's father dies , the significance of his family grows even stronger and being unable to identify with Maxine and her family , he instead agrees to ' date ' a Bengali girl from his past - Moushumi ( Zuleikha Robinson ) has blossomed from the frumpy bookworm into a beautiful and experienced woman . They marry , keeping to Indian traditions , but the marriage is rocky and in the end Gogol discovers that his true happiness is in the rich family history and beauty of his native India . There are moments of rare beauty , both cinematically ( camera work is by Frederick Elmes ) and emotionally ( musical score is a lovely creation by Nitin Sawhney ) , and while the film is somewhat brittle at times due to the occasional bilingual nature of the script , the main characters are portrayed by such strong actors that the little flaws become unimportant . It is well to have so many films that deal with the immigrant experience at this particular juncture in our history , and when that theme is enhanced by the beauty of authors such as Lahiri , the messages become even more poignant . Grady Harp
The Corruption Within : Televangelism Scrutinized	Frank Pierson continues to create films that are controversial and thought-provoking ( ' Soldier's Girl ' , ' Dirty Pictures ' , ' Truman ' , ' Conspiracy ' , ' Citizen Cohn ' , etc ) . In PARADISE he examines the workings of a ' showbiz evangelist ' family and in doing so opens doors and windows to inspect not only the backstage shennaigans that are gaining more media coverage of late , but also the the very important family values and human frailties that make people support this brand of ' religion ' . With a blistering screenplay by Norman Steinberg and Richard Christian Matheson . PARADISE relates the story of one Bobby Paradise ( David Strathairn ) , a past astronaut who apparently believes he spoke with God upon re-entry into earth's atmosphere while crashing into the Indian Ocean , and has been driven to tell his story and spread the gospel with his wife Elizabeth ( Barbara Hershey ) , his lawyer daughter ( Vivienne Benesch ) who has a penchant for shady behavior and who is having an affair with a boxer ( Kirk Acevedo ) , his business manager son Matthew ( James LeGros ) and wife , and his alcoholic mother Isabella ( Elaine Strich ) . Bobby is haunted by his own demons and feels he is at the breaking point , but his wife and family encourage him to continue is financially successful business ( palatial mansion , jets , money to burn and to keep everyone out of trouble , etc ) . But the media begins to pry and slowly we watch the family power tend to disintegrate as we discover Bobby has a son newly released from a prison term ( apparently for justifiable homicide ) , the boxer's wife and child are ' bought out ' so that the daughter can marry , etc . The film works well primarily because of the quality of performances by Strathairn , Hershey , Strich , and all of the cast . Just when the story appears to be going over the top , the understated characters of Bobby and Elizabeth keep it grounded in reality and the possibility that this sort of family CAN exist . Too many questions are left unanswered , as though this movie for Showtime was being considered as a series for TV , but for a dissection of TV Evangelism it is a tasty investigation .
Sweet without becoming Saccharine	John Gatins knows his way around uplifting ' family movies ' and brings them to a new level with DREAMER . Though the story's pattern is a well used and familiar one , Gatins has created a strong story and graced it with a fine cast , and though we know from the outset what the ending will be , it is the getting there that is the pleasure of this very watchable film . Ben Crane ( Kurt Russell ) lives on a once famous Kentucky horse farm , a farm where he and his father Pop Crane ( Kris Kristofferson ) once bred racehorses . Now the farm is horseless and Ben simply works as a trainer . His disappointment in his life situation is reflected in his relative neglect of his wife Lily ( Elizabeth Shue ) , who works as a waitress to make ends meet , and of his daughter Cale ( Dakota Fanning ) . His life is further encumbered when he advises his boss Palmer ( David Morse ) that the horse he has trained is not ready for a race and Palmer forces Ben to race the horse only to have the horse Sonador break a leg . Ben is devastated , Palmer fires Ben and offers Ben severance pay of $6000 . plus ownership of Sanador , saving the injured horse from being put down . This seemingly bottoming out of Ben's career results in his winning his family back : Cale and Ben's faithful workers Balon ( Luis Guzman ) and ex-jockey badly injured in his past Manolin ( Freddy Rodriguez ) all work to restore Sanador's health . Together they nurse Sonya AKA Sanador back to being able to run and reunite the fractured family all in the cause of creating a new life through faith and renewed familial bonding . Sanador is entered in a low level race and while she doesn't win , she demonstrates her viability as a racehorse . Evil Palmer attempts to buy back the healed Sanador , but Ben has ' sold ' the horse to Cale who decides to refuse the buy and proceeds to race Sanador in the Breeder's Cup race - of course winning . What could have been a sugary weeper of a story is brought to a fine level of reality by the fine cast . Fred Murphy is the superb cinematographer , John Debney continues his sterling reputation of composing fine musical scores , and Gatins pulls it all together . DREAMER may be a family movie , but it is one with enough finesse to please just about every viewer . Grady Harp
A Warmly Human Little Story About Following Your Dream	ICE PRINCESS is not the kind of movie to which this reviewer is usually attracted - the trappings indicate that we are in for a happy-wappy , sterilized , PG , Disney candy box . But , surprise ! , here is a film that is better than its package . Writers Meg Cabot and Hadley Davis have combined the sport of ice skating with the drama of teenage angst and come up with a credible tale of a ' science geek ' discovering her talent and following her dream of figure skating . Director Tim Fywell knows his way around the ice rink and the halls and lockers of high school kids and his preparation for the film is apparent . Casey ( Michelle Trachtenberg ) is a fine student who is encouraged by her physics professor to find a project that incorporates her personality along with physics that will assist her in gaining a scholarship to Harvard . Casey's mother ( Joan Cusack ) is a pragmatist , a schoolteacher who wants Casey to succeed beyond the mother's status . Casey loves to skate on their home pond , but one day happens into a private skating rink class owned by one-time star skater Tina ( Kim Cattrall ) , a place where Tina relentlessly drives her daughter Gen ( Hayden Panettiere ) toward winning prizes . Tina's son Teddy ( Trevor Blumas - a much underused handsome actor ) is always around to keep the ice surfaces smooth with his machine . Casey observes the brilliance of fine skating , thinks of a way to analyze moves on her computer that will diagnose aerodynamic physics aspects of skating , and once that is perfected , and she is able to aid the skaters with her scientific knowledge , she personalizes her theories . Before long has won a place along with the other aspiring skaters . She encounters resistance from her mother , encouragement from Tina , and friendship from Gen and her fellow skaters as well as the eye of Teddy ! When Casey has her Harvard interview , she admits that her real love is for skating , not physics , and commits to pursuing that love full time . The rest is predictable : all's well that end's well . What sets this little film apart is the quality of acting from Trachtenberg , Cattrall , Cusack and Blumas : they create characters about whom we care . The skating is fun to watch , and the ' sitting in the bleachers rooting for the good guys ' feeling is refreshing . This is not a great film but certainly one of the best of this genre . It is most definitely a ' feel good ' popcorn movie ! Grady Harp
Sometimes it takes a knell . . .	Films of reflection are too few and often the result of climbing to a summit only to gaze back at the shadows never cast in the greedy race for the top ends i tragedy . FLASHBACKS OF A FOOL suggests , by its title , that the story may be different , that there may be some redemption at the core of an abusive life . Writer / director Baillie Walsh sets his story in opening frames of intense sexual , drug accompanied debauchery . But as the credits fade , the lead character Joe Scott ( Daniel Craig ) faces a morning of hung over reality . A wealthy Hollywood star whose lifestyle has hastened his aging , Joe is ' managed ' by the stern Ophelia ( Eve ) who is tiring of Joe's wasted lifestyle . Her warnings , as well as Joe's agent's confrontation that Joe is too old looking for a new screenplay , is compounded by a telephone call that Joe's boyhood friend Boots ( Max Deacon ) has suddenly died , leaving Joe's old first girlfriend Ruth ( Claire Forlani ) an early widow . Depressed and drunk Joe walks his beach and reflects on his youth . The ' flashback ' tales us to Joe's teenage years ( the young Joe is Harry Eden ) with Boots as his closest friend and Ruth ( Felicity Jones ) , the girl Joe craves . But hormones rule and Joe is an easy prey for his married next door neighbor : during one of their trysts a tragedy occurs that results in Joe's fleeing home for the ' successful ' yet empty life he finds in Hollywood . At the request of Joe's mother ( Olivia Williams ) he flies back to England where he is forced to confront the early damage he caused in the lives of his family and friends . Daniel Craig and Harry Eden are excellent in their mirrored roles of the young and the older Joe . In fact there is not a weak member of this fine British cast . Though the story takes place in England the film was shot in South Africa ( cinematographer John Mathieson ) and the rickety beach houses on the small bay where Boots and Joe spend their time is picturesque and adds the right sense of isolation to the story . At 114 minutes the film goes on a bit too long with areas for editing a bit too obvious . But the overall effect of FLASHBACKS OF A FOOL is a satisfying journey through a memory that holds a light to the incidents of youth that can alter too many lives if not mended . Grady Harp
A Bank Job Goes Wrong for All the Right Reasons	THE BANK JOB is first class entertainment - a well-written script ( Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais ) with many twists and turns , face paced direction ( Roger Donaldson ) , and a reliable cast of actors who know this genre well . AND it is all based on a true event from 1970 when a bank heist in London resulted in a number of falls of the heads of government who were locking away their ' dirty underwear ' in the safety deposit boxes of a quiet bank on Baker Street . A great , unique movie this is not , but it is one that provides close to two hours of complex but highly suspenseful antics that keep the viewer glued to the screen . Terry Leather ( Jason Statham ) isn't making it as a car salesman and has debts to pay to the crime world . He meets an old sweetheart Martine Love ( Saffron Burrows ) who proposes that Terry and his friends rob a bank that is due for security repairs and a fairly surefire safe means to instant wealth . Martine just happens to be working with a fellow who wants some rasty photographs of Princess Margaret in questionable sexual liaisons and has Martine setup the ' easy heist ' . Terry and friends agree to the too-good-to-be-true venture and begin to burrow into the bank vault under cover of night and clever means . Once the ' keystone cops ' of London arrive on the scene the comedy portion begins , but when Terry , Martine and friends successfully achieve their goal , all manner of complications occur and the ways in which police and governmental corruption color the picture makes for a solid ending . As a fine addendum , the true facts of this actual heist and resulting events are flashed on the screen before the closing credits . The cast ( including such fine actors as Stephen Campbell Moore , Daniel Mays , Alki David , James Faulkner et al ) seems to have a great time with the caper and there is just the right balance between suspense and comedy to make the movie work . And oh the secrets about naughty England we discover ! Grady Harp
Cinema Verité from Romania	4 MONTHS 3 WEEKS AND 2 DAYS ( ' 4 luni , 3 saptamâni si 2 zile ' ) is a powerful film that asks us to witness several horrors - Ceausescu's communist Romania in 1987 , illegal abortion , and the extremes / abuses of friendship . Writer / director Cristian Mungiu captures one day in the lives of a few common people in Bucharest , lingering over each of the individuals just long enough to sense the terror of the moment , but continuing to move the pace of the story at a speed that capitalizes on the incidents in life that come just short of stopping the world for the people immediately involved . It is a very tough movie to watch but a uniquely fascinating work of art that deserves plaudits for the bravery of those who created it . Without introduction the viewer is placed in a dormitory in Bucharest where two roommates - Otilia ( Anamaria Marinca ) and Gabita ( Laura Vasiliu ) seem preoccupied with an unidentified appointment . Through the rapid progress of the actions of Otilia we learn that Gabita is pregnant and in need of an abortion . Because she is young and single and afraid to make her condition known , Gabita convinces her closest friend Otilia to make all of the arrangements . Otilia finds a hotel room , engages the black market abortionist Bebe ( Vlad Ivanov ) to meet the two girls that evening in a sleazy hotel to perform the abortion . Bebe may be shady but he is up front with the girls , explaining that Gabita is too far along for a safe abortion , but with sufficient money he agrees to perform the act ( insufficient funds force Otilia to ' pay ' Bebe in a demeaning way ) . While Gabita awaits the action of the procedure performed , Otilia leaves her for a promised visit to her boyfriend Abi's ( Alexandru Potocean ) mother's birthday dinner . Otilia , distraught at the punishing circumstances of the day , finds it difficult to endure the superficial dialogue of Abi's family and friends and soon escapes the party to return to Gabita at the hotel . What she discovers severs the remaining traces of friendship bonding so tried by the ' victimized ' selfish and arrogant Gabita , and the film ends as strangely as it begins - life simply goes on no matter how brutal the realities are . Mungiu elects to tell his story ( based on a true story shared with him by a friend ) as a spontaneous moment , abetted by feeling the prolonged shooting takes of the film provide . The acting is excellent in the manner in which it seems improvised . There are many aspect of the film that will make many viewers avert the eyes , but the message is so clear that staying with the film to the end drives home many facts and truths that beg for awareness . Cristian Mungiu is a talent to watch . In Romanian with subtitles . Grady Harp
Another Superb Film From Australia	Writer Jacqueline Perske and Director Rowan Woods chalk up another successful Australian film in LITTLE FISH , an intense , very personal drama about how illegal drugs affect communities , families and individuals . The story begs patience from the viewer as it is gratefully one that does not spell everything out for the viewer , but instead introduces the characters slowly and with hints of backgrounds that bring them to the moments of crisis the time-frame of the film uses . Taking place in the Little Saigon area of Sydney , Tracy Heart ( Cate Blanchett ) is a recovered junkie who lives with her mother Janelle ( Noni Hazlehurst ) and partial amputee brother Ray ( Martin Henderson ) , each trying to make ends meet in a life previously destroyed by drug addiction . Tracy has been clean for four years , works in a video store but has dreams of owning her own business , dreams that are thwarted by banks refusing to give her business loans solely on the basis of her previous addiction . Ray , his amputated leg the result of a car accident somehow connected with drugs , still sells heroin in ' little fish ' containers , occasionally calling upon Tracy to make pickups and deliveries . The now absent stepfather Lionel ( Hugo Weaving ) fights his own addiction both to drugs and to his dealer Brad ( Sam Neill ) with whom he has been in a gay relationship since his divorce from Janelle . Tracy tries to support Lionel's attempts to kick his habit , but the attempts are failures . Everything comes to a head when 1 ) Tracy is desperate without her needed bank loan , 2 ) Tracy's Vietnamese ex-lover Jonny ( Dustin Nguyen ) returns from Vancouver where his family sent him to avoid the persecution of rehab in Sydney , 3 ) Brad retires leaving Lionel without a source of drugs or love and Lionel is replaced by a quasi-normal Steven ( Joel Tobeck ) who kicks the last part of the film into a spin . There are no solutions to anyone's problems : things just happen and the characters respond in the best way they can with the ominous cloud of drug addiction shading their lives and futures . The script is terse and smart and the direction is relentlessly realistic and well paced . Cate Blanchett gives a sterling portrayal of the very complex Tracy , and Hugo Weaving , Noni Hazelhurst , Sam Neill , Dustin Nguyen , and Martin Henderson are superb . This is a tough little film that does not fear to examine the truth about the effect of drugs on people's lives and spirits . It is a very fine film . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Tasty ' Period Piece ' from the 1960s !	A WALK ON THE MOON as written by Pamela Gray ( " Music of the Heart " ) and directed by actor Tony Goldman conjures up more atmosphere for the year 1969 than any film to date . Remember Woodstock , the Jewish summer retreats in the Catskills , hippies , face and body painting , threats from the Vietnam era and promises of space habitation by the famous first walk on the moon ? It is all faithfully created here as the background for a lovely little sentimental tale about family and fidelity . The Kantrowitz family - Pearl ( Diane Lane ) , Marty ( Liev Schreiber ) , Alison ( Anna Paquin ) , Daniel ( Bobby Boriello ) and Marty's mother Lilian ( Tovah Feldshuh ) - are spending their usual summer away form New York in a Catskill settlement bungalow along with other Jewish families of the same ilk . All seems swell , except that Marty must spend the weekdays returning to his job as a TV repairman , leaving the family under Pearl's and Lilian's care until his weekend visits . A hippie blouse salesman Walker Jerome ( Viggo Mortensen ) peddles his wares to the settlement and casually but inevitably Pearl feels an attraction to Walker , the man of adventure who represents all the lost dreams of becoming a mother and wife at the too early age of 17 . Life has slipped her by but feels salvageable in Walker's advances . Woodstock is close by and Pearl and Walker spend a day of hippie love-in in the crowd , not knowing that teenage Alison is also there observing their free love antics . This crisis event affects the family's unity and the way Pearl faces her moment of indiscretion with Marty and her children builds to a terrific climax . Diane Lane , Viggo Mortenson , Liev Schreiber and Tovah Feldshuh completely inhabit these simple characters and pull us into accepting all aspects of the predicament of this family crisis . The confrontation among Lane , Schreiber and Mortenson is a trio of acting not to be forgotten . Tony Goldwyn has paced his film beautifully and proves that he has as great skill as a director as well as an actor . The cinematography by Anthony B . Richmond is as recreative of a special time on our history as has been captured . This little film will stay with you long after the credits are over . Grady Harp
A Mind-bending Film that Challenges the Viewer : What is Dream and What is Reality ?	Nightmares have never been so decidedly well scripted as in LEMMING , another bizarre creation by French director Dominik Moll ( ' With a Friend like Harry ' , ' Intimacy ' ) and writer Gilles Marchand ( ' Red Lights ' , ' Who Killed Bambi ? ' , ' Bon voyage ' , ' Tender Souls ' , ' Joyeux Noël ' ) . As played by a superlative quartet of actors - Charlotte Rampling , Charlotte Gainsbourg , Laurent Lucas , and André Dussollier - the film is no easy path to follow but one that in retrospect seems to fit together like a Chinese puzzle . The story involves the ' model couple ' who invite the rogue older couple to dinner where a belated arrival heralds the singly strange behavior of the boss ' wife . When the outrageously ' eccentric ' wife subsequently is thwarted in a seduction of the model husband and the model husband fails to immediately communicate this embarrassing encounter to his young wife , the nightmare begins : the tale embraces suicide , alienation , adultery , philandering , murder , abandonment , a car crash - all seemingly related in a linear sense . But as it turns out , in the end of the film the events appear to be the fodder of a nightmare that could only have been induced by a simple initial guilt of lack of communication . The ' lemming ' of the title refers not only to a Scandinavian rodent that is found in the plumbing of the young couple's kitchen , but it also is part of the nightmare of the concept that lemmings ' commit suicide ' in their migration from their overpopulated Scandinavia to the oceans of death beyond their home . In retrospect each piece of the bizarre story is laid very carefully in the opening of the film , at times a bit occult but the pieces are there . Rampling and Gainsbourg are their usual beautiful and gifted selves in very tough roles , and the entire cast is on target , succeeding in catching us off guard at every turn . Perhaps this is not a ' great movie ' , but it certainly is a fine exercise for the mind and gives further evidence that Dominik Moll is a formidable artist . Grady Harp , September 06
A Theme of Interlocking Tenderness	' Hildes Reise ' ( ' Hilde's Journey ' ) is a surprisingly tender film despite the cover art suggesting a harsh and angry young man movie . Director Christof Vorster directs this screenplay he wrote with Gabriele Strohm and gives us a story that deals with difficult issues of AIDS , parental homophobia , relationship challenges met and squandered , and the power of shared love for a departed friend that can overcome almost any barrier . Steff ( Oliver Stokowski ) works in an antique shop repairing furniture and longs for a shop of his own . His credit scores are low , he is unable to secure a business loan , and his outlook is bleak . Word reaches him that his ex-lover Martin , the son of a wealthy German family ( the mother played by Heidi Maria Gloesser ) who continue to deny his sexual preference , has died : the family calls the cause of death cancer , but the true cause is AIDS . Steff attends the funeral and Rex ( Michael Finger ) a young friend of Martin ( who is also affectionately known as ' Hilde ' ) shows up distraught , raging at the family for denying that their son died of AIDS . The will is read and Martin / Hilde left his entire estate to Steff : at last here is a source of money to advance Steff's career . Martin / Hilde also has requested that he be cremated and his ashes thrown to the sea . The mother refuses this wish , attempting to deny her son's past and ensconce him in the family mausoleum . Steff addresses the family and tells them he will accept only a fraction of the money he has inherited , sacrificing the urn of ashes to carry out Martin / Hilde's wishes . Rex kidnaps the urn and together with Steff the two set out on a journey , initially for different reasons , but ultimately for the respect of Martin / Hilde whom they both loved ( Rex also has AIDS , met Martin in the hospital and spent his last year with him as a caregiver ) . The way in which the potentially conflicting pairing of Steff and Rex is resolved is both touching and a satisfying ending . The cast is uniformly excellent , the photography of the German and French countryside by Hans Meier is lush and moody , and the music score by Karsten Riedel is minimal but just right for the moods of the film . Yes , this could be categorized as a gay film , but its messages are so universal and the quality of the film-making so fine that it deserves a very wide audience . In German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Negotiations and their Consequences	HOSTAGE , based on the best-selling novel by Robert Crais and adapted for the screen by Doug Richardson , has all the right ingredients for an action thriller : good plot , good character motivation , the requisite battle between good and evil , the transformation of a past bad deed into a current good turn , pyrotechnics , good sets , good actors . What more could you ask for a movie in this genre ? Editing ! Jeff Talley ( Bruce Willis looking far better sans hair than in the overly hirsute opening scenes ) is a hostage negotiator in Los Angeles and after a traumatic event , transfers his family to a little Ventura County town . The job as Chief of Police of the quiet burg seems boring until the day of the movie when three punk teenagers ( Ben Foster , Jonathan Tucker , Marshall Allman ) respond to their testosterone and antisocial tendencies and decide to steal an Escalade SUV from rich man Walter Smith ( Kevin Pollak ) and his children Jennifer ( Michelle Horn ) and Tommy ( Jimmy Bennett ) who live in a superstructure , highly guarded mansion that serves as a headquarters for criminal money manipulation ( unbeknownst to the perpetrators ) . What begins as a ' simple robbery ' escalates into a heinous situation that even Talley feels he cannot handle . The teen trio holds the family hostage , requesting a helicopter to aid their escape . Memories and flashbacks to Talley's Los Angeles fiasco drive him to superhero deeds in the messy situation and through a series of truly interesting twists this cat and mouse game of death comes to an interesting end . Yes , there are subplots galore , deaths , fire , explosions , death-defying actions , and unexpected turns of events - all of which propel the breakneck speed of this film under the direction of Florent Emilio Siri . But clocking in at 113 minutes feels like 90 minutes could have accomplished the same results with more intensity . Bruce Willis is Bruce Willis and few can carry off these flicks as well . The supporting cast is fine with a special nod to Ben Foster who seems made to play the creepy teenage protocriminal . One wonders why the producers elected to select brilliant composer Alexandre Desplat ( ' Birth ' , ' Girl with the Pearl Earring ' , ' The Upside of Anger ' , etc ) to create a score that is 1 ) buried by all of the on screen noise and 2 ) gratefully so ! In all the film , with a lot of editing , could rank up there with the best of them in this genre . As it is , it is pretty solid ' entertainment . ' Grady Harp
A Love Story and the Conflicts of Sexuality	AMOUR DE FEMME is a well-produced film that deals with the trials and agonies facing women who come out as lesbians . It is quiet , subtle , beautifully photographed , and is fortunate to have a fine , handsome cast directed with sensitivity by Sylvie Verheyde who also wrote the simple but elegant screenplay . Made in 2001 AMOUR DE FEMME came to the screen before the popular US television series THE L WORD , a program that has provided a healthier look at same sex relationships between women , and though there have been successful mainstream lesbian films , this particular one avoids some of the pitfalls that have prevented wide public acceptance of the others . The writer / director does not surround her two main characters with the usual bar scenes and peripheral characters that can distract from the story of a sexual discovery , but instead keeps the story tight with a small cast each of whom makes an impact on the story . Jeanne ( Hélène Fillières ) is a successful osteopath / wife / mother who happens to reluctantly accompany her handsome husband David ( Anthony Delon ) to a birthday party for his best friend Franck ( Jeannick Gravelines ) and there she encounters Marie ( Raffaëla Anderson ) , a dancer , and a chemistry develops resulting in an evening Jeanne enjoys very much . Slowly Jeanne and Marie begin meeting very openly , Jeanne is honest with David about her comings and goings , but when the two women's relationship becomes physical , Jeanne is faced with decisions about her sexuality . David confronts Jeanne about Marie , Jeanne confides her shaky mental and physical state , and when David eventually confronts Jeanne in a telling way , Jeanne understands her true self and despite her deep love for her small child , realizes she must follow her heart . The cinematography both in Paris and in Normandy , where Jeanne and Marie with Marie's younger brother Moïse ( Thierno Sy ) have spent refreshing moments together , is stunning . Both of the actresses are not only beautiful but also talented and yield a credible attraction and passion . The entire cast is superb . The one distracting element in the film is the sound track : there is a rumbling pedal point noise that accompanies almost every scene between Jeanne and Marie and is annoyingly distracting . In French with English subtitles . The DVD is very fine in execution , but there are not extras except for some video trailers . A comment from the talented writer / director would have enhanced the release . Recommended . Grady Harp , March 06
Brutal , Probing , Embarrassingly Honest Examination of the Fast Food Industry	FAST FOOD NATION got such minimal response in the theater run that it seemed to go straight to DVD . The PR for the film was such that it appeared to be ' hilariously funny ' ( according to the DVD box cover ) and as such might just provide a bit of humor after a tumultuous day of work . WRONG ! This little film adapted by Richard Linklater from Eric Schlosser's frightening book is agonizingly biting and insightful : if you elect to watch it , be prepared for some ugly facts that may just produce insomnia . Don Henderson ( Greg Kinnear ) is a marketing strategist for ' Mickey's ' , a fast food chain that is highly successful in selling millions of ' The Big One ' ( the comparisons to the McDonald's Big Mac are not subtle ! ) and discovers that the meat patties have been found to grow E . coli in the lab ! On an expedition to explore the validity of this problem he travels to Cody , Colorado to visit the plant that produces the meat patties for the entire national chain . And so the plethora of story lines begin : the film examines the illegal immigrants from south of the border brought in by coyotes , treated like dirt , and given jobs ' cleaning ' the meat plant and working the food chopping lines and eventually the killing and slaughtering of the cattle whose housing conditions are filth personified ; the teenage workers who people the Mickey's chain are shown to be discontent and equally capable of planning robberies as they are of attempting to free the soon-to-be-burgers cattle ; the callous corporate types who cover the facts in favor of increasing monetary gain ; the plant workers who abuse the immigrant workers in every way possible ; the utter boredom of the populace of Cody and the resultant pacified response to the ' big problems ' that seethe through their town . Yes , it is an expose of corruption on many levels , but the film doesn't stop there . Linklater and Schlosser are careful to include the individuals caught up in the mess and those individuals run the gamut from the immigrants who only want to find a better way of life and will subject themselves to horrors both in their trek across the border and the mistreatment in the factories to find it , to the honest men of the corporations , the ranchers , and the teenagers who try to make a stand against the many problems that overwhelm them . And that is what makes the film so moving : it personalizes rather than generalizing . The cast is huge and without exception excellent : Greg Kinnear , Kris Kristofferson , Bruce Willis , Bobby Cannavale , Ashley Johnson , Paul Dano , Patricia Arquette , Luis Guzmán , Wilmer Valderrama , Catalina Sandino Moreno , Ana Claudia Talancón , Juan Carlos Serrán , Armando Hernández , Esai Morales , Ethan Hawke , Avril Lavigne . . . the cast just goes on and on . Be ready for some horrendously brutal scenes not only in the killing and cutting lines but in the sexual abuses equally as tragic . This is a film that should affect the viewer , and while it is overly long at almost two hours , it is as pungent a social comment as has been made . Grady Harp
A Picturesque Italian American Frolic	THE WHOLE SHEBANG is a movie made for television , a category that in some circles places a hex , but in the case of HBO films it is a definite plus ! This little unpretentious story plays like a sweet foreign film like ' Life is Beautiful ' and is directed ( George Zaloom ) with zest and played by an all star cast that makes it a fine evening's entertainment . The Bazzini family of Neptune , New Jersey owns a fireworks business in competition with the Zito family whose entrepreneurial instincts are decidedly more ' American ' . The head of the Bazinni family is Pop ( Giancarlo Giannini ) and Contessa ( Talia Shire ) and the heir apparent is Frank ( Christian Boucher ) who is a fine pyrotechnician but is unfaithful to his non-Italian wife Val ( Bridget Fonda ) . As the story opens Frank is perfecting the ' blue ' firework and while working he is distracted by his latest lady conquest who diverts his attention causing the whole Bazinni Fireworks Plant to literally blow up . Though the family is devastated at Frank's death , Pop looks for the next head of the company to replace Frank , and at the wake the Zito family Lady Zito ( Anna Maria Alberghetti looking terrific ! ) inserts her son Joey ( Anthony DeSando ) into an evil-planned courtship of the newly widowed Val in hopes of overtaking the Bazinni business . Meanwhile , in Naples Italy we meet Giovanni Bazinni ( Stanley Tucci , in fine form as a comedian ! ) , a cousin to the American Bazinnis and a poor café musician unlucky in love and life . He repeatedly attempts suicide but each attempt is comically thwarted . His passion is for Maria ( Jo Champa ) a gold digger slut who dismisses Giovanni's affections with cold harshness . News of the Bazinni disaster in America arrives and Giovanni is sent to New Jersey to inherit the fireworks business . Once in New Jersey in flounders around the language and the business , is attracted to Val and to her son Bobby ( Alexander Milani ) and is adored by the Bazinni clan . In time Giovanni's good intentions often backfire ( ! ) and the politics between the Bazinnis and the Zitos collide . The resolution of the story proves that honesty and family ties and creative perseverance result in happy endings . The ' Italian gioio ' created by this fine cast is infectious and each of the characters adds to the recipe with style . Tucci is in top form as are Giannini , Fonda , and Alberghetti . They make this rather slight script worth believing , never coming across as imitating but as embodying their roles . The frequent use of fireworks is joyous and well done and adds to the sparkle of the film . Not a great movie but certainly a solid one for a tender summer night's entertainment . Grady Harp
Spiraling Down the Sink Hole of Chile's Underground	Director / writer Andrés Waissbluth worked seven years to complete this two hour film about the crime underground in Santiago , Chile , and perhaps that is one of the reasons the resultant film seems episodic and in need of editing . OR , maybe this is the technique of a director who shows a fine sense of film noir storytelling . Two brothers - Silvio the elder ( Néstor Cantillana ) and Victor the younger ( Juan Pablo Miranda ) - have moved to Santiago from their home in Temuco after their parents ' death and Silvio works to support Victor's education . On Victor's seventeenth birthday Silvio takes the virgin out to the clubs where he encourages Victor to lose his virginity with one of the club's stripper / prostitutes . In a tender scene Victor must face his nascent impotency while Silvio is out on the club floor impressing the ' owners ' with his potential for hire . Silvio goes to work for the ' gang ' as a bodyguard / henchman and makes good money to support Victor's schooling . But Victor has eyes for one of the dancers at the club named Gracia ( Antonella Ríos ) and begins to woo her , dropping out of school incurring Silvio's angry disappointment . Gracia just happens to be the squeeze of the club gang's leader Don Pascual ( Alejandro Trejo ) who is Silvio's boss ! Gracia is the glue that holds this tale together as she is the paramour of Victor , Silvio , and Don Pascual and the consequences of this bizarre ménage a trois has deadly results . Through a means of re-telling the story through the eyes of Victor , Silvio , and Gracia we grow to understand the vulnerabilities and the cracks in each character that allow for the downfall that results . Sound like a Chilean Pulp Fiction ? Well , it is and it is filmed in a brutally colorful , dark manner that includes a lot of frontal nudity ( both female and male ) and provocative sexual encounters . But in the end the sensual aspect of the director's vision is what drives this film , playing on the debutante virginal psyche against the hardcore professional sex worker with success . The cast is fairly strong , especially Antonella Ríos in the demanding role of Gracia . There are enough twists and turns and replays of incidents you think you understood the first viewing but that change dramatically in impact when told through the eyes of a different character . Bordering on two hours , some judicious editing would have helped the impact of the film . In Spanish with English subtitles . Recommended for those who like the edgy film noir style and the art of South American cinema . Grady Harp
Instant Replay . . . of Sorts	Christina Welsh has written a fine screenplay that proves that old ideas can be re-worked in a thoroughly original way . Gil Junger steps out of his role as a director for TV series and molds Welsh's story into a visually charming and sensible , touching movie . Add the considerable talents of one highly regarded pro ( Tom Wilkinson ) and two underrated young bright lights ( Jennifer Love Hewitt and Paul Nicholls ) and the result is a little film that is polished , absorbing , and genuinely tender . Samantha ( Hewitt ) is a musician living and studying in London where she is in a healthy relationship with a handsome young executive Ian ( Nicholls ) : though obviously in love , Ian is more involved with his work than Samantha would like and on the day of her ' finals concert ' they have a spat over several issues . On his way to his all-important meeting Ian encounters a taxi driver ( Wilkinson ) who gives him some sage advice about his love life . Abruptly Samantha is killed in a freak auto accident and Ian is devastated . In his grief he strangely awakens to the same day in which Samantha was killed , and through a series of working through the elements of his life where he failed her ( with a bit of aid from the taxi driver ) , Ian has an ' If only ' experience , a time to re-evaluate his love for Samantha , his life , and his changes . A twist in the events brings the story to a surprise but apropos ending . From what could have been yet another love-death tearjerker of a Hollywood movie emerges a story with heart and with some poignant lessons for us all . Hewitt proves a fine actress in this film and is beautifully paired by the exciting presence of relative newcomer Paul Nichols . It is not a great movie , but it is one that will pleasantly surprise viewers who may have though it was just another ' chick flick ' . Give it a chance - it is worth it ! Grady Harp
Dancing as a Way out of Loss	Whatever the impetus for writer / director Randall Miller to recreate his 1990 film on the same subject , this little low budget film has the sense of commitment and love on the part of everyone associated with it . Be warned that this is a hankie film and that if you don't have a tolerance ( or a fondness ) for tearjerkers , then best avoid this one . But for those who enjoy a look at the changes that loss and discovery and love can impact a disparate group of characters ' lives , this is a sweet little movie . The basic premise is how caring for others can positively affect one's own world view . Frank Keane ( Robert Carlyle ) is a baker in a family shop , a quiet man who is trying to recover from his wife's unexplained suicide and for consolation he is in group therapy with other grieving men ( David Paymer is the leader of a group that includes Sean Astin , Adam Arkin , Ernie Hudson , Miguel Sandoval ) . On a routine delivery run , Frank witness a car crash in which Steve Mills ( John Goodman ) is critically injured . Feeling helpless , Frank calls the paramedics who respond and tell him to keep Steve talking . And talk Steve does , pleading with Frank to go to a ballroom dance session to which he promised a young girl he would attend 40 years ago when a child . Frank does attend Marilyn Hotchkiss ( Patricia Fraser ) Ballroom Dancing and Charm School , feels out of place at first , but gradually warms to the message of now-owner Marienne Hotchkiss ( Mary Steenburgen ) , meets an abused Meredith ( Marisa Tomei ) , her abuser Randall Ipswich ( Donnie Wahlberg ) , and fellow dancers including Sonja Braga et al . Through the miracle of dance ( and through a lot of flashbacks from car accident to Steve's childhood , etc ) conflicts resolve . The ending is cluttered by events unnecessary to the story but seemingly inserted to make use of the talents of Danny DeVito and Camryn Manheim . But by the time this fluff is added we have already been enchanted with the bumpy road tale and can forgive about anything . This little unpretentious movie has an endearing style and is populated with some superb actors who seem committed to the project . Many of the ' little things ' ( Hotchkiss ' gradual variation in costume , the DJ " Freeway " ( uncredited ) , and the quality of outside vs interior photography ) come to mind in retrospect and make the memory of this evening of borderline saccharine story even more of a treasure . Grady Harp
' Una furtiva lacrima '	The aria from Donizetti's ' L'elisir d'amore ' plays a significant role throughout this fascinating , intelligent , well made thriller by Francis Girod based on a novel by Brigitte Aubert and adapted for the screen by Girod and Philippe Cougrand . ' The secret tear ' takes on many meanings as this complex story set in Brussels unfolds in the same manner as ' Diabolique ' . Only this film takes even more risks and succeeds resoundingly . Presented as simply the main character instead of an oddity , transsexual Bo ( Robinson Stévenin ) works as an entertainer in a drag club in Brussels . His best friends are other transsexuals , especially Maeva ( William Nadylam ) , who perform with him . Some are also prostitutes and are falling prey to a serial killer who disfigures each of his victims in a vicious way . Bo , we learn , left home at age 13 , unable to cope with sexual molestation from his father ( Marcel Dossogne ) and the suicide of his mother , and lives quietly in a humble apartment . Her interest is peaked when a handsome young Johnny ( Stéphane Metzger ) moves in next door and she fantasizes an affair with him . While Johnny appears to be infatuated with Bo , he has his dark side , living with a roommate with whom he provides sexual services for older unattractive but rich women . The police , headed by Huysmans ( Richard Bohringer ) investigate the serial killings and in some way Bo is always at the scene or is familiar with the victims . The story revolves around the cat and mouse game of surveillance and complications of information regarding the killing spree . An interesting sidebar shows Bo's father arrested for sexual harassment and Bo is interrogated by the police about his childhood traumas with his father . How Bo weaves through all of the events - longing for Johnny , attempts for a consignation with Johnny which teeters on the possible versus the sadistic , gay bashing , gaining courage to speak against his father , etc - is the maze the story pulls us through . The identity of the serial killer is successfully revealed at the very end of the film . The excitement of the suspense drama is heightened by Girod's stunning direction and by the completely convincing acting of Robinson Stévenin , but also by the superb characterizations by Richard Bohringer , Stéphane Metzger , William Nadylam , Frédéric Pellegeay , Ginette Garcin , Stéphane De Groodt , and Charlie Dupont . The musical score by Alexandre Desplat is one of this fine composer's best , and the cinematography by Thierry Jault finds just the right flavor of the seamy streets of Brussels to make the story as creepy as it should be . So with all this praise why only 8 stars for the DVD ? The subtitles ( the film is in French ) are so out of sync with the film that they completely destroy the important conversations , so much so that many times the subtitles are finishing off a scene that is no longer on the screen ! If these were corrected it would be clear to everyone why Robinson Stévenin won the French Cesar Award for best actor and why it is such a success for the daring director Francis Girod . Highly recommended . . . just be aware that the English subtitles will frustrate you - unless you speak French ! Grady Harp
Artists Taking Risks	The division of opinion in responses to FUR - AN IMAGINARY PORTRAIT OF DIANE ARBUS is a healthy one and it is reassuring to read so many fine views of the film's worth . Diane Arbus remains one of the more important artists of the 20th century , a woman who defied societal taboos and entered the world of the marginal people - fellow human beings whose genetic inheritances could be viewed as either curses or variations of normal . Without making judgments Arbus photographed little people and giants , people with less than four limbs , people with deformities both skeletal and flesh defined , people whose life styles influenced at times grotesque appearances : in the end the common denominator is ' people ' . She was unafraid to observe and to capture nature's variations . How this great artist transitioned from the ordinary life of the ' proper wife and mother ' of the 1950s to the world of the bizarre has always been a story that begged to be told . In this film , loosely based on the biography by Patricia Bosworth as adapted by Erin Cressida Wilson , driven director Steven Shainberg strives to create a story that would explain the transition . It is only a story and to judge it as honest biography would be incorrect . It is fantasy and one that is a clever , if overdone , explanation for Arbus ' choices she made in her private life and in her artistic life . As Diane Arbus , Nicole Kidman once again inhabits the role of a very strange personality and does it so well that she manages to take us along the odd journey on which she embarks . Her nice but mundane husband Allan ( Ty Burrell ) allows her to explore the presence of a new tenant Lionel ( Robert Downey Jr . ) , encouraging his frustrated wife to take up photography on her own rather than serving as his assistant for the fashion magazine images he grinds out . Lionel is covered with hair ( hypertrichosis ) and as a sideshow freak has many friends who have deformities . Arbus enters this world , loves the freedom of expression she has longed for , and in time falls in love with Lionel , leaving her family to enter completely the vision she has discovered ( this is not a spoiler as the film opens with this information ) . Yes , Shainberg can be criticized for excess and for pushing the boundaries of credibility , but for this viewer that approach enhances the concept of visualizing the epiphany in an artist's life when the world changes to a form the artist can then capture and share . The sets , photography , and the acting fit the idea - even the far too prolonged love scene / body shaving sequence and aftermath that can only be described as bizarre . The film is obviously a work of love and one that honors the life of Diane Arbus , even though we are not given much true information about the woman . Veteran actors Jane Alexander and Harry Yulin add to the dignity of the project , as does a fascinatingly simple musical score by Carter Burwell . This is a film for those who appreciate fantasy as a means of relating a history : for those who need factual biographical approach this film will not appeal . Grady Harp
A Breezy , Entertaining and Refreshingly Honest Comedy	ECHTE KERLE or REGULAR GUYS is a polished little 1996 comedy from Germany that manages to tell a tale of mixing genders and satisfy all viewers no matter their viewpoint . Rarely has a film handled straight / gay juxtapositions with such an unbiased , honest and relaxed vantage . So often these gender bender films have the look of mini-budget movies , but this film as directed by Rolf Silber based on a screenplay by Silber and Rudolf Bergmann is photographed with panache by Jürgen Herrmann is slickly creative and wholly professional . Christoph Schwenk ( Christoph Ohrt ) is a plainclothesman police officer who does stakeouts spying on criminals with his partners Mike ( Oliver Stokowski ) and Helen ( Carin Tietze ) . As the film opens Christoph is thrown out of his place by his ' ignored ' girlfriend who has replaced him with a bodybuilder lover . Dismayed and angry , Christoph begins to drink , loses his car keys , his belongings on the street , and ends up with no place to stay as he stumbles into a gay bar where he passes out completely drunk . When he awakens he discovers he is in the arms of Edgar , a handsome auto mechanic who rehabs cars ( ? stolen ? ) and the question arises as to whether the two had sex during the night . Edgar is a kind and gentle man who evades this question , obviously feeling an attraction to Christoph . Edgar clothes Christoph so that he can find a place to stay and make it to work at the current stake out which just happens to be spying on car thieves . At work Mike and Helen notice something different in the paranoid Christoph who is more interested in finding an apartment and resolving his question of the previous night's sexual occurrences than he is with work . Unable to find any kind of hotel or apartment at all , he sleeps in his car until he eventually has the nerve to accept Edgar's offer for him to move in with him . Christoph makes it clear that is his Straight and Edgar makes it equally clear that he is Gay and likes Christoph . The relationship between Christoph and Edgar gradually strengthens , the threat of sexuality weakens to the point that as Christoph is seen in public with Edgar and when razed at work , Christoph sides with the idea of appearing gay and has a wonderful locker room confrontation with his fellow cops that says a lot about the barriers between gays and straights ! Slowly , as Christoph settles into his new living conditions , he becomes enamored with Helen who is more than ready to pursue Christoph as she notices his ' machoisms ' dwindle . At the same time Edgar's weekend lover Marco ( Andreas Pietschmann ) causes Christoph to query his surprising ' jealousy ' . The three police become friendly with Edgar and Marco and when it seems they may be involved in the car theft ring under stakeout , they each find it easier to turn the other cheek and support each other . The ending pairs off the various members of this story in a warm and funny way , a manner which some may find predictable , but still satisfying and allowing all barriers to be down . The cast is uniformly excellent - the cameo supporting roles are very well done - and for once a film about straight perceptions of gay life makes ALL of the characters non-stereotyped : the men are all handsome hunks and the women are all beauties . This is light entertainment , a comedy with a message well stated .
The Kites of the Novel are Uplifted by the Wind but Fail to Soar in the Film	Khaled Hosseini's THE KITE RUNNER was one of those first novels that captured both public interest and the hearts of the many who read this story of childhood unconditional love and redemption set against three stormy decades in Afghanistan . Though Hosseini was approached about the story's adaptation to the screen soon after the novel was published , there seems to have been a rush to get the visual form of the poetic novel before the audience , a journey besieged by unsuspected political intervention and criticism by the Afghan government . But after seeing the film , this intrigue heightens the intent of those involved in translating the book to film - writer David Benioff and director Marc Forster . People may argue both sides of whether or not the dialog be in Afghan languages ( Dari , Pashtu , Urdu ) with English subtitles or be in English throughout : the choice of using both languages is severely hampered by the decision to place the Afghan translations in an overlay on the screen while the English subtitles are place off the viewing field . A small point , perhaps , but one that makes the first viewing of the film difficult to follow visually . As far as the actors are concerned , the two young lads who were chosen to portray Amir ( Zekeria Ebrahimi ) and Hassan ( Ahmad Khan Mahmidzada ) are perfect : closest of friends living in a household where one ( Amir ) is the son of the master of the house and the other ( Hassan ) is the son of the grounds and house keeper - a factor that serves to underline class differences that will later become increasingly poignant . The boys are inseparable , reading stories together and flying kites in competitions - each lad specializing in one of those pastimes . But disaster crumbles the boys ' victory in the kite flying contest when Hassan is beaten and raped by the town bullies while Amir cowardly runs for safety , deserting his friend . Suddenly the Russians invade and that change factors into the need for Amir and his father to move to America where Amir is educated and becomes a writer . Twenty years pass . After the fall of Afghanistan to the Russians and subsequently to the Taliban , Amir ( now actor Khalid Abdalla ) receives a telephone plea from Hassan's father to return to Kabul . Amir , now married and a successful writer , feels the need to return to amend for his past omission as well as to assuage Amir's fears . When he arrives in Kabul he encounters a war torn country he no longer recognizes , discovers past secrets as to his and Hassan's true identities , and sets out on a journey to bring closure to a childhood love and promise . It is a touching tale of redemption and the strongest echo of the magic of the novel . THE KITE RUNNER as both novel and film will appeal to all audiences sensitive to scars that wars leave on children and adults alike . For this viewer the film lacks the intensity of the book in that the time spent with the childhood of the two boys feels secondary to the personal journey of the adult Amir . But that is not to say the film is less powerful in the end : the story is one that leaves an imprint on the audience that last long past the ending credits . Grady Harp
Pride , Determination , Resilience	PRIDE does not open any new doors in the genre of film biopics of teachers who raise the status of downtrodden students to the point of genuine appreciation of self worth . The story has been told countless times with different characters , both male and female , different races ( African American , Hispanic , Caucasian , etc ) , and different areas of the United States . But despite the recurring similarity of heart-on-the-sleeve stories such as this , PRIDE stands solidly on its own merits , in part due to the well developed and written screenplay by Kevin Michael Smith , Michael Gozzard , J . Mills Goodloe , and Norman Vance Jr . based on the life and contributions to society of Jim Ellis , in part due to the sensitive direction of Sunu Gonera , and in part due to the fine cast . The idea behind the story may not be new , but PRIDE is a fine example of the genre . Opening in the 1960s we meet Jim Ellis ( Terrence Howard ) as a superior swimmer unable to use his gifts because of his race . Jump 10 years forward and Ellis has finished college as a math major and seeks to teach in Philadelphia , only to face racism again . Desperate for work he accepts a ' closing down ' job at a condemned Philadelphia Recreation Center tended by downtrodden Elston ( Bernie Mac ) who resents Ellis ' intrusion into his domain . Ellis restores the center's swimming pool and gradually initiates a swim team for troubled teens , young boys and a girl who are new to swimming and even newer to the thought that they can become someone important and rise out of their slum surroundings and influence of drug lords . With time Ellis teaches the team not only how to swim like champions , but also how to gain faith in themselves through PDR ( Pride , Determination , Resilience ) , eventually winning a championship as a team of African Americans in a city still plagued by racism . The cast is excellent : Terrence Howard once again proves he can create a character of complete credibility , completely immersing himself in a role with all of the subtle facilities of fine acting ; Bernie Mac at last is given a serious role and rises to the level of Howard in skill ; Kimberly Elise and Tom Arnold provide fine cameo roles . But one of the treasures of this film is the cast of young actors who seem so natural that they deserve special plaudits : Brandon Fobbs , Alphonso McAuley , Regine Nehy , Nate Parker , Kevin Phillips , and Evan Ross . Clint Eastwood's son Scott Reeves plays a pivotal role as a racist swimmer . So despite the overexposure of stories such as this , PRIDE stands out as one of the best . It is a beautifully filmed and well-developed homage to a very worthy man and coach : PDR . Grady Harp
Looking for Love in Seemingly Wrong Places	The Kasdan Family has made a significant mark on the better films of Hollywood and Jon Kasdan ( writer / director of IN THE LAND OF WOMEN ) holds those values of fine cinema intact . Having appeared as an actor in some films of his father Lawrence Kasdan ( Grand Canyon , The Big Chill , Body Heat , Mumford , Dreamcatcher , The Bodyguard , etc ) , he has not only inherited his father's credo of making meaningful statements about life as we are currently living it , he has absorbed the fluid character development of those films and added his own sensitive touch with graceful dialog . He is a talent to watch . Soft porn writer Carter Webb ( Adam Brody in a very fine performance ) lives in Los Angeles near his depressed mother ( JoBeth Williams ) and has just been dumped by his actress girlfriend Sofia Buñuel ( Elena Anaya ) . When his mother learns of her mother's failing state , the distraught Carter offers to travel to suburban Michigan to stay with his grandma Phyllis ( Olympia Dukakis ) . Once in picturesque Michigan Carter deals with his lovable but eccentric grandma and meets the across the street neighbors - mother Sarah ( Meg Ryan in fine form ) , daughters Lucy ( Kristin Stewart ) and the younger Paige ( Makenzie Vega ) , and errant husband Nelson ( Clark Gregg ) . In this setting of a ' woman world ' Carter is key to aiding the various maladies of each of the women while addressing his own disappointing failed relationship . The manner in which he intervenes by simply being present and tender and caring makes a positive impact on not only those around him but also on his own life and talent as a meaningful writer . In what could have been a soupy chick flick Jon Kasdan has instead provided a script that has a healthy dose of homespun philosophy and has guided his multi-talented cast to offer some of their finest moments on film . This is an entertaining movie , but it is also a balm for viewers who have experienced life-threatening illness , broken homes , coping with the elderly , and ultimately coping with death . It simply works . Grady Harp
Outsourcing Elvis	ELVIS is the DVD version of the much lauded television miniseries ( it won both Golden Globe and Emmy awards for actors Jonathan Rhys Meyers , Camryn Manheim and Randy Quaid ) : the transfer of the extended three hour long series to a single DVD format is successful and demonstrates once again that made of television movies can often be superior to the Hollywood format . The film is not without its flaws : the script by Patrick Sheane Duncan is painfully pedestrian at times and the use of lip-syncing using a variety of Presley recordings isn't always convincing . But director James Steven Sadwith manages to overcome the obstacles and gives us a rather personalized view of the life of the King . The film covers Elvis Presley's life from his near poverty beginnings in Tupelo to his worldwide fame and fortune at his ' comeback ' in 1968 . The development of the committed guitar-playing singer from his first record through the development of his ' style ' and the ultimate glory and insecurity that paired his magic time is well told . If the story seems to be repetitive and goes on too long , then it also is giving the audience time to see the man behind the shadow of fame . Oddly enough Jonathan Rhys Meyers ( now so superb in another biographical series as Henry VIII in ' The Tudors ' ) was imported for the leading role , and while some may question the use of outsourcing here , Rhys Meyers is so convincing in every way that the reasons for casting him are clear . Camryn Manheim offers fine work as Presley's all-important mother and Robert Patrick plays his supportive father . Randy Quaid gives a bravura performance as the oddly successful Colonel Parker . Some of the other roles - Rose McGowan's misfired portrayal of Ann-Margaret and Antonia Bernath's of Priscilla - are less successful , but their contributions are balanced by the fine work of Tom Guinee as the pivotally important Sam Phillips . In all this is a quality piece of work about one of America's icons whose presence is still palpable thirty years after Presley's untimely death at age 42 . The awards given to this film are well earned and the DVD offers a fine ( if long ) evening of entertainment and nostalgia . Grady Harp
The Spectrum of Relationships Between Fathers and Sons	In many ways this film , originally made for Showtime audiences , feels like a triptych : there are three stories here written and directed by three men - Rodrigo García , Jared Rappaport , Rob Spera - with the unifying thread being that the three stories deal with three families who live on the same street . The technique of creating and producing each story is different , some more successful than others , but it does serve to enhance the concept that no two fathers and sons have the same sort of relationship . In one story there is an overbearing father , obsessive compulsive in his parenting to offset his own feeling that his father wasn't involved with him . When the stronger parent ( the mother ) dies , and the man's father dies , he is left to watch the maturing of a son he really doesn't know . In the second family the distant pilot father ( a fine John Mahoney ) is adulterous , has a crumbling marriage , and tries to understand his gay son's life and lifestyle ( the son here being portrayed by Ron Eldard in his consistently fine tradition of character development ) . How he interacts with his son when his son's first love succumbs to AIDS is the glue that mends his life . And in the third story the cantankerous father is dying and his successful lawyer son ( Gale Harold ) returns home to prove that indeed he has fulfilled his father's expectations only to discover the longer for intimacy at the end of the father's life . The families are loosely connected and the name of the street on which they all live serves as the name of each of the three segments . A good idea , a bit of varying showmanship of concept , and in the end it all works fairly well . The actors are consistently fine with some cameos by older actors we haven't seen in a while . There are no solutions to father / son roles here , only a gentle exploration of how important the impact of that relationship is on forming future lives . Recommended . Grady Harp
What Exactly Constitutes Being A Psychologist ?	MUMFORD is a delicious little film from 1999 written and directed by Lawrence Kasdan ( The Big Chill , Grand Canyon , The Accidental Tourist , Silverado , etc ) who as usual poses some interesting questions as to our contemporary take on concepts . It is a quiet , beautifully acted ensemble film that wears well indeed . Mumford ( the underused Loren Dean ) is a man with a variegated past who settles into a little town by the name of Mumford , decides he will listen to people talk , be a sounding board for folks who are in need of communication in this basically non-communicative world , and becomes a ' Psychologist ' in every sense of the word - the good sense . The manner in which he listens to the many people within the little town is mesmerizing and insightful and the citizens he encounters and assists are varied and beautifully sculpted vulnerable human beings . The fine cast includes Hope Davis , Jason Lee ( in one his finest roles ) , Mary McDonnell , Alfre Woodard , Zooey Deschanel , Martin Short , David Paymer , Kevin Tighe , Ted Danson , Jason Ritter and even more . The dialogue is introspective , healing , edgy , and entertaining and the overall feeling left with the viewer at the end of the piece is one of wishing more ' Mumfords ' would be around our neighborhoods - or rather that we all could become ' Mumfords ' with a little conviction and concern for our fellow beings . This is a Kasdan concept movie that touches our hearts while it stimulates our brains . Grady Harp
Life , Death , Friendships and Other Anomalies	WALKING ON WATER is disturbing in the best sense of the word : it calls forth a sense of identification with each of the major characters in this story and makes us uncomfortable while providing avenues for insight and change . Were that all movies had the emotional and spiritual impact of this fine film written by Roger Monk and directed newcomer Tony Ayres . The setting is Sydney , Australia and the mood is established by cinematographer Robert Humphreys ' panoramas of the ocean and inlets and coastlines surrounding this city . Gavin ( David Bonney ) is dying with AIDS and has been attended in his home by his friend and business partner Anna ( Maria Theodorakis ) and caregiver Charlie ( Vince Colosimo ) and Charlie's lover Frank ( Nicholas Bishop ) . It is Gavin's wish to die with dignity and when the time comes for the assisted suicide , the designated doctor Dr Simms ( Timothy Jones ) administers IV morphine while Gavin is surrounded by his extended family as well as his brother Simon ( Nathaniel Dean ) and wife Kate ( Anna Lisa Phillips ) and his mother ( Judi Farr ) . The euthanasia does not seem to be working and in desperation Charlie places a plastic bag over Gavin's head to hasten the requested death - a deed that will haunt Charlie and the rest at the bedside . Anna remains apparently calm in the immediate aftermath , tending to the ' funeral ' arrangements according to Gavin's requests . Gavin's mother appears to want to make up for years of distance by interceding in the plans and the will , but Anna is strong and the service goes as planned . After the funeral the mother and Simon's wife leave to return to their home away form Sydney , leaving Simon to remain until Gavin's ashes are ready for transport . In this ' home ' things begin to disintegrate : Charlie attempts to evade his guilt about his final assistance by anesthetizing himself with morphine elixir , cocaine , alcohol and barhopping . His behavior further distances his lover Frank and the latter ends the relationship . Anna finds emotional outlet in placing demands on Charlie and eventually sublimates her loss by escaping into physical encounters with Simon , taking him to bed and to bars and to drugs all of which eventually awaken Simon to his infidelity to Kate and results in his leaving the ' home ' . The climax of the film is the confrontation of those who were closest to Gavin - Anna and Charlie - who in despair vent their rage so intimately associated with the death of a loved one and search for a path of recovery . It is this means of healing that comprises the ending of this richly tender film . Actors Vince Colosimo and Maria Theodorakis are exceptionally fine in their roles and the supporting cast is homogeneously fine . Judi Farr gives one of those cameos that breathes ' best supporting actress ' ! The concept of how extended families intertwine with genetic families in times of stress is as well shown in this film as any in memory . One criticism : much of the excellent script is lost to poor sound editing , to the good but overly loud music , and most important to the lack of English subtitles for those of us who are not intimately familiar with the varying Australian accents ! Watch this film twice and with trained ears you'll appreciate it even more . Grady Harp
One of the Better ' Family Films ' in recent years	BECAUSE OF WINN-DIXIE succeeds as a credible view of the world through children's eyes because it remains honest and straightforward . Credit director Wayne Wang and Joan Singleton's screenplay adaptation of Kate DiCamillo's fine novel for keeping this story simple , direct , terse , and most important , not allowing it to fold into a saccharine tearjerker . As it stands it is quiet , true , and a worthwhile statement about how children view adults and their progress toward becoming one . Opal ( AnnaSophia Robb ) was deserted by her mother at age three and comes to live in a small Florida town with her brittle preacher father ( Jeff Daniels ) . She finds it difficult to adjust to the odd folk of the village until she adopts a terrific dog Winn-Dixie . Life blossoms for her until her dog is lost during a storm and she faces tragedy in her life once again . But this potential tragedy opens the door for her to relate to her father ( and vice versa ) and appreciate the disparate people who have befriended her . The film is shot in a very small scale in keeping with the story . There are no pretensions here : the people Opal meets include such fine character actors as Cicely Tyson , Eva Marie Saint , Dave Matthews and the remainder of the cast is to be respected for the understated manner in which they draw their characters . Jeff Daniels ( The Hours , The Squid and the Whale , Goodnight and Good Luck , The Goodbye Girl , Gods and Generals , etc ) continues to prove that he is one of our finer actors on the screen and stage : when an actor of his stature takes on a film like this , one is almost guaranteed it is a worthwhile film to see . Not a great movie , but a very good one that provides a healthy breath of fresh air to the current choices of downer movies . Grady Harp
A Powerful New Dimension in Documentaries : The Director is also Invisible	Konstantin Bojanov is a fearless , sensitive , respectful observer of the young people of Sofia , Bulgaria whose lives are focused on drugs . Three years in the making ( 2000 - 2003 ) this unique documentary was possible only because of the dedication of Bojanov who sought to depict from the addicts ' vantage a problem that encircles the globe . Having used some drugs himself Bojanov approached six Bulgarian drug users as a friend and instead of exploiting their lives , he steps aside ( or beside ) and lets the six young people ( ages 17 - 39 ) talk to the camera about their perceptions , delusions , reasons for using drugs , the highs and lows of drug use , the types of drugs they use and how they obtain them , and most important - their personal philosophies of how they view life and humanity and their place in it . The characters ( these are not actors ) are addressed only by their first names : Diana , Kamen , Remi , Sasho , Stani and Vicki . They are filmed as they mix their heroin with citric acid ( ' lemon ' ) to put it into solution as it heats , how they use syringes , sharing with their best friends , how they survive finding veins that will accept the dirty needles , and then the effects of the drug once in their blood stream . At this point they stare into space with the glazed look of the junkie and share their fears , their concerns , their need for heroin , their thoughts of suicide and the response of those who have tried it and succeeded or failed . One aspect of the film is the discussion about prescription drugs widely used by these addicts in addition to heroin , drugs such as Parvikan ( an anti-Parkinsonian drug not available in the US ) , and drugs that are primarily belladonna , barbiturates , and opiates . Over the three years of the shoot we get to know some of the users well , as they change physically , as they survive in the shadows of deserted buildings and under bridges , and how their friendships endure : they are the Invisible ones , the representation of an illness we would rather not address . All of this is filmed without the words of an interrogator : Bojanov simply allows us to overhear the tragic lives these people endure , without preaching , judging , or sensationalizing . An added feature on the DVD is an extended 20-minute interview with the Director and it is from this interview that much of the film is explained in terms we can understand . Bojanov is an artistic humanitarian and he has created one of the more realistic and informative explorations of drug abuse ever filmed . It is a fine achievement . Grady Harp
Revenge and other forms of Madness	DEATH SENTENCE is a tough movie to watch , not because it is a poorly made film , but because of the degree of violence that , once started , is mayhem on a roller coaster ride . Though based on a novel by Brian Garfield , the script by Ian Jeffers is a patchwork quilt - the holes show whenever the police arrive on the scene . James Wan , of the ' Saw ' movies fame , directs with a keen eye for breathless action sequences and almost intolerable suspense timing that makes the film fly through the 111 minutes of the Unrated version . During the opening credits we are introduced to the perfect family via home movies and domestic scenes : Nick Hume ( Kevin Bacon ) is the devoted father , Helen ( Kelly Preston ) his bright and loving wife , Brendan ( Stuart Lafferty ) is the golden boy son with all the soccer laurels , and Lucas ( Jordan Garrett ) the younger ' also ran ' son . The glitch in this family's happiness happens one night when , out of gas while driving home from a soccer game , Nick stops at a gas station and while Brendan is in the convenience store a gang comes in and murders the store owner and Brendan : the reason for the killing is not robbery but an initiation rite into a gang accomplished by young Joe Darley ( Matt O'Leary ) and the demand of his older brother Billy ( Garrett Hedlund , in a very out of character role from his usual ' Troy ' , ' Friday Night Lights ' , ' Eragon ' , ' Georgia Rule ' persona ) . Nick witnesses the killing and when the lawyers and police work with him in the aftermath to ' arrange a deal ' instead of a murder trial , Nick decides to take matters in hi s own hands . The Darley brothers are part of a ruthless gang sponsored by their own father Bones Darley ( John Goodman , in a very dark and well-realized role ) . Nick stalks Joe Darley and murders him , and once the deed ( that happens to begin a gang war against Nick ) is done the terror begins . The gang is out to kill not only Nick but Nick's family also . How this pursued and pursuers game works out furnishes the remainder of the film . It is the old eye for an eye story that ends in tragedy for everyone concerned . When the film is dealing with the ' family ' and the ' gang ' the dialog sparkles , but when the police , headed by Detective Wallis ( Aisha Tyler ) , become involved the aid from the police becomes as ludicrous as the dialog placed in their mouths . Kevin Bacon gives a bravura performance as the gentle father driven to murderous madness and Garrett Hedlund matches him as the ruthless and terrifying gang leader Billy . There are enough sidebars about father / son relationships on both sides of the plot line to make the movie have a message . But in the end it is the wildly frantic camera action and directorial decisions by Wan that make this a horrifying and arresting film . Not for the queasy viewer . Grady Harp
A Refreshingly Different Story That Makes Many Meaningful Statements	Quentin Lee is to be congratulated for taking on several controversial issues and blending them into a novel story that works on many levels . While many writers and directors of Indie gay films focus on the downtrodden , bleak , tragic aspect of young gay lads coming to grips with their lives , few have presented stories that emphasize an element of redemption based on courage to change those things that can be changed . Ethan Mao ( Jun Hee Lee ) is an 18-year-old Chinese American boy who has been working ( gratis ) for his father Abe ( Raymond Ma ) all his life in their Chinese restaurant . One evening at closing time a young man enters the negligently unlocked door and robs Ethan's cash register at gunpoint . Abe enters form the back of the restaurant and kills the robber , much to Ethan's chagrin . This results in an angry confrontation ( one of many in an Asian family where the children are supposed to always obey the parents ) . Ethan is still mourning the loss of his mother and loathes his stepmother Sarah ( Julia Nickson-Soul ) , a would-be actress who married Abe for money , bringing along her own son Josh ( Kevin Kleinberg ) , a bright young man of obvious mixed genetic pool . Ethan also has a younger brother Noel ( David Tran ) with whom he has a warm and strong bond . Sarah discovers a gay magazine in Ethan's room , shares this with Abe , and Abe throws Ethan out of his home for being gay and shaming his family . Ethan , bitter , homeless and without money , begins a life a street hustler , accepting his passive sexual role with older johns as a means of income . Serendipitously he meets Remigio ( Jerry Hernandez ) , a fellow hustler and minor drug dealer who understands the life of an orphan's loneliness , and befriends Ethan and offers him shelter and affection . Ethan decides to return to his home on Thanksgiving ( knowing that his family always goes out of town on that day ) to take his belongings and get some cash . Remigio accompanies him and what begins as a simple entry into Ethan's empty home results in disaster as his family returns for a forgotten gift . Ethan rages against them and decides to hold them hostage until morning when Abe can send Sarah to the bank to retrieve Ethan's mother's necklace - the only memento he has of her . The crux of the story is how this tangled ' family ' comes to different levels of understanding under duress and how Ethan ( through this dream vs reality incident ) arrives at forgiveness and finds love with the ever-supportive Remigio . The acting is mixed but the cast engages us and allows each character to morph into something better than we expect . Both Jun Hee Lee and Jerry Hernandez bring credibility to their roles and the result is a palpable relationship which touches the viewers ' hearts . While there are rough spots in camera work , in script , and in production , this is a strong little Indie film with a lot to say , dealing with positive images and debunking old prejudicial thoughts about sectors of society miscegenating into the fabric that makes our population more tolerant . Grady Harp
A Visual Feast for a Time Travel Love Story	Anytime a story is about time travel the audience must accept the fact that suspension of belief is mandatory . Based on a Korean film ' Siworae ' by Eun-Jeong Kim and Ji-na Yeo and adapted for the latest version by David Auburn , Alejandro Agresti has his work cut out for him . The story is Swiss cheese full of holes as anyone would expect from a tale about two people who fall in love from the disparate vantages of 2004 and 2006 and as long as the viewer accepts the inherent incongruities of such a story the overall effect is really quite lovely , if a bit too uninvolving . Dr . Kate Forster ( Sandra Bullock ) has a history of living in a glass lake house outside Chicago but when we meet her she lives in a luxury apartment while she is on staff at a small hospital . Alex Wyler ( Keanu Reeves ) currently lives in the lake house ( we discover that his father played by Christopher Plummer is an architect who built the house years ago ) and begins to find mail in his mailbox from the previous tenant Kate . The story weaves back and forth between 2004 and 2006 and keeping score is rather tricky at times , but eventually of course the two time-lapsed people meet , the riddles are unexplained , they fall in love over the distance of time , etc . There is not a lot of message here except that real love can occur despite almost any obstacle . Reeves and Bullock are fine , but the rest of the characters are sketchy and only tangentially relevant to the story . A family discourse among Reeves , Plummer , and Ebon Moss-Bachrach ( Henry , the other brother ) never gels . The supporting cast includes interesting actors such as Shohreh Aghdashloo but they have little to do . In fact the scenery and the house seem to be the main characters and that really is OK because both are beautiful , thanks to Alar Kivilo's cinematography , and Rachel Portman's musical score is very fine . It is not a deep film and it could benefit from a really good re-write of the script , but for an evening's diversion it is pretty to look at and tender in content . Just forget about the holes and you'll be fine . Grady Harp
Unsung Heroes	Much of what happens during war is not apparent to the general public : events that place American military personnel in a less than gratuitous light historically have been downplayed by the media , current events in Iraq excepted . Such was the case in World War II when Washington more or less ignored the imprisonment of hundreds of GIs after the Japanese attacked and took over the Philippines . This is their story as excerpted from the novels ' Ghost Soldiers ' and ' The Great Raid on Cabanatuan ' . The action of the movie takes place over five days in January 1945 during which time a battalion of Army Rangers finally lead a successful raid on the POW camp in Cabanatuan to free the remaining American prisoners after their survival of the Bataan Death March and three years of beastly , brutal incarceration . The leaders of the raid are portrayed by Benjamin Bratt and James Franco and the survivors in the camp to be freed are held together by the characters portrayed by Joseph Fiennes , Marton Csokas and Logan Marshall-Green . Flashbacks to the period of time before the Death March are inserted to introduce those freedom fighters lead by Margaret Utinsky ( Connie Nielsen ) whose smuggling of medicine into the camp helped save the lives of her lover ( Joseph Fiennes ) and the others . This story is history so the ending is not a secret . The Rangers exhibit great bravery and succeed in the impossible mission of freeing the prisoners , with the important help of the Philippine military led by Captain Pajota ( Cesar Montano ) , in a truly synchronous mission . The film is very understated for the most part : real life black and white photographs of the events in the film are inserted to add credibility and they are gut wrenching . The devastation of battle is not ignored , but the attention is focused on the very human plights of the victims and their freedom soldiers . The film is shot in the muted tones of sepia with enough color to make the effect appear as an old 1940s movie . It works . Though the script is not great , the message is and the actors committed to this retelling of an important event do a fine job . John Dahl directs with a sense of pathos and while there are no raging overblown heroes , he allows the simple men involved in this story to stand taller than most heroes of the ' big war movies ' . The film met with disinterest and criticism when released . Perhaps now that people can view it in the privacy of their homes the quiet message within will make a more poignant impact . These ordinary people have dignity in the face of being ignored by their own government . And there is a lesson there we should not forget . Recommended . Grady Harp
The Dark Corners of Love and Obsession	Writer / director Matteo Garrone has created in PRIMO AMORE yet another atmospheric film ( not unlike ' L'Imbalsamatore ' ) that deftly explores the dark side of human interactions and motivations . His style is Gothic in nature but with a contemporary setting manipulated with quirky camera work and artistically designed sets that give the viewer the feeling of watching an experiment in a laboratory , the characters all being bounded by cage-like visual devices . Yes , this is film noir , but Garrone develops his bizarre characters so well that we grow along with their transformations into the icons they become . Vittorio ( Vitaliano Trevisan ) is a goldsmith who exists on the modest , long-held family business of creating jewelry from molten gold in the ancient manner . We first meet him looking through the grid of a train station where he awaits Sonia ( Michela Cescon ) , a young girl who has answered his classified ad for a date . They meet , Sonia is pleased , but Vittorio tells her right away that he expected her to be thinner . Sonia offers to return to her home out of town , a garden home she shares with her robust brother ( Roberto Comacchio ) , but Vittorio decides he wants to try the date . They have a little courtship and all seems to go well until Vittorio begins to suggest that Sonia lose weight . They move into a nice home ( ' the site of Romeo and Juliet ' the realtor boasts ) and their coexistence begins . Vittorio is confronted with the needs of his business expanding stimulated by an offer to partner his business from an entrepreneur who insists Vittorio make only heavy bracelets and substantial jewelry in response to what the public is buying : Vittorio has always preferred the tiny , thin , light weight delicate carvings of beauty rather than the bulkier profitable items . The decision causes Vittorio's two old workers to leave him and Vittorio is depressed . As Sonia complies with Vittorio's ongoing obsession for her to be thin , Sonia's friends and brother tell her to beware of the strange demands of Vittorio , and despite Sonia's hunger for food , her hunger for being loved is greater and she slowly moves toward anorexia . Eventually in the solitary confinement of their home the two come into conflict and the result is a tragedy few would see coming . The layers of meaning are deep : Vittorio's passion for the thin , delicate gold objects he creates as being things of true beauty are mirrored by his obsession for Sonia to be like those objects . Sonia works as a model for an art school and as she watches the students ' works alter her once nubile body to a dwindling form , she feels terrified that she will waste away . Yet her need to not be rejected by Vittorio keeps her starving her body rather than her heart . Throughout this downward spiral of physical vs emotional attraction Garrone frames the scenes in increasingly complex grids , confining the story every more tightly until the ultimate rupture . The acting is excellent and the combination of scene design and cinematography make this a dark but intensely interesting film experiment . It may not be a movie for everyone , but for those who appreciate avante garde stories and cinematic treatment , this is a film to study . Grady Harp
Business as Usual : A Peek at the Weapons Trafficking World	Director / writer Andrew Niccol makes films with layers of meaning , the kind that find us laughing at inappropriate moments because contemporary life is like that : what on the surface seems like an entertaining story has very dark roots . His previous strange films include ' The Terminal ' , ' The Truman Show ' , ' S1m0ne ' and ' Gattaca ' and now LORD OF WAR takes its place in that arena of black comedy . Niccol really releases his last spear when at the end of the film there is a statement ' Based on Actual Facts ' and at that point the film takes on an altogether new significance . Yuri Orlov ( Nicholas Cage ) and his brother Vitaly ( Jared Leto ) immigrate to the US to Little Odessa with their parents ( Shake Tukhmanyan and Jean-Pierre Nshanian ) who have posed as Jews to escape the Ukraine in 1980 - before Glasnost . Yuri is bright and sees gunrunning as a lucrative business and after his first tiny success in the gang infested Little Odessa , he convinces his dreamy-eyed brother to be his partner . The business grows exponentially as Yuri discovers his best customers are countries at war : in time he is wealthy , has married his dream sweetheart Ava ( Bridget Moynahan ) and settles in as one of the more successful gunrunners in the world . He buys weapons from stockpiled American ordnances after the US has ' finished ' a war and sells them to Eastern European , African and South American revolutionaries . He is tracked / stalked by Jack Valentine ( Ethan Hawke ) who in his role as a government agent is determined to stop Yuri's dispersal of deadly weapons that result in needless deaths when disseminated to countries in the throes of political change . Though Yuri is first for business , he does care deeply about his wife and child , and about Vitaly whose entry into the world of wealth is soon squandered on a cocaine addiction requiring frequent detox . Yuri is not a mean spirited man : he sees his business as just that , salesmanship of items for which there is a huge demand and he does not see himself as the perpetrator of violence . His life has moments of compassion , many moments of financial success , moments of pride in being the gifted gun-runner he has become , and moments of introspection . He hobnobs with dictators , revolutionaries , fellow gunrunners and the law . The resolution of the story is not an end but merely a tapering off . The film is narrated by Yuri and for the first part sounds almost comedic - until the visual depiction of the killings are on screen . Niccol appears to be showing us a factual business that is legal in the eyes of the government ( ' Washington encourages gunrunners to take care of aspects of world control they can't be seen as condoning ' ) and it is his gift to drive his message home about how human lives are wasted for the sake of business and weapons proliferation . The film is painful to absorb on this level . Nicholas Cage gives a powerful performance as the opportunistic Yuri and the criminally under-used Jared Leto once again proves his fine-honed acting skills as the drugged addled innocent Vitaly . Likewise Bridget Moynahan is excellent as the wife who elects not to question her source of wealth . Key cameos are keenly provided by Ian Holms and Eaamonn Walker . The film is rapid-fire paced , the cinematography is excellent , and the impact of the film is powerful . It is unusual for a director to take on topics this controversial and end up with a film this entertaining . Recommended . Grady Harp
Aleksandr Sokurov Examines the Mind of Hitler : A Study of Insanity	MOLOCH ( translated as ' a demon in the shape of a man ' ) is a film that shows yet another aspect of Aleksandr Sokurov's approach to film-making . As in his splendid ' Russian Ark ' , ' Mother and Son ' , and ' Father and Son ' he manages to say more in his silences and interplay of his characters with nature and their environments that in his spare scripts ( this script is by Yuri Arabov and Marina Koreneva ) . His movement is slow , like an adagio , his eye is constantly on symbolism and irony , and his filming / camera technique is always experimental . Given these factors ' MOLOCH ' is a fine example of how Sokurov works his magic : whether or not the viewer will relate to this bizarre film depends on how willing one is to enter Sokurov's vision . This film about Hitler is very much a Russian product and given the history of the relationship between Russia and Germany , that fact is necessary to know . 1942 , in a fortress in the clouds of Bavaria , we find Eva Braun ( Yelena Rufanova ) cavorting balletically both inside the foreboding stone ' dungeon ' and out on the dangerous parapets . She is visited by a strange entourage : Hitler ( Leonid Mozgovoy ) , Dr . and Mrs . Goebbels ( Leonid Sokol and Yelena Spiridonova ) , Martin Boorman ( Vladimir Bogdanov ) , and a priest ( Anatoli Shvedersky ) . The action takes place in a single day and during this time the actual war is not discussed . We are to understand this is a retreat for relaxation , but as we get to know the characters we find that many hints of the evil and insane minds of all of them . They talk : Auschwitz is mentioned and Hitler apparently has never heard of it ; Hitler pontificates on power ; the Goebbels demonstrate their abject worship of Hitler ; Eva Braun is the sassy journalist who is the only one who can talk back to Hitler , teasing , seducing and acquiescing to his inability to demonstrate intimacy . They dine ( Hitler's vegetarian mentality deplores the ' corporal soup ' his dinner partners devour ) , they watch old grainy black and white news clips of war machines , new tanks , soldiers , and oddly a performance of Beethoven's 9th Symphony with Knappertsbusch conducting . Then the guests retire , and Hitler is joined by Eva Braun in a bizarre boudoir scene . In the morning the entourage leaves and Eva remains , retuning to her strange world of dancing through the fortress . Throughout the film the music is that of Wagner - Siegfried's Funeral Music , and other passages from ' Die Götterdämmerung ' ( Twilight of the Gods ! ) accompanied by some banter about Furtwangler and Bruno Walter as well as Knappertsbusch . The acting is somewhat stylized which adds to the bizarre mood the story creates . In the final analysis this appears to be Sokurov's image of a mind gone mad with power and visions of immortality and it is only at the very end when Eva Braun whispers that he cannot defeat death that there is a moment of vulnerability in the historical Hitler . This is a slow moving 108 minutes of film and not for everyone's taste , but if you are an admirer of Aleksandr Sokurov it is a mesmerizing journey through the cerebral passages of one of history's worst molochs . Grady Harp
Both Sides of Forgiveness	POOR BOY'S GAME is a little film with a big message : hate can only be altered with forgiveness , remorse and redemption . The highly respected Jamaican director Clément Virgo ( episodes on ' The Wire ' , ' The L Word ' , ' Soul Food ' , and films ' Love Comes Down ' , ' Lie With Me ' , etc ) here takes on the tough subject of racism and the accompanying backlash of consequences and with co-writer Chaz Thorne produces a small but pungent film that touches many aspects of the schism between whites and blacks in the seemingly tranquil town of Halifax , Nova Scotia . Isolating the story in such an unlikely place serves to heighten the core problems the film addresses . Donnie Rose ( Rossif Sutherland ) is released from prison , having served nine years for the brutal beating of Charles Carvery ( K . C . Collins ) which left the victim severely brain damaged . Upon release Donnie returns to his old neighborhood to live with his mother and find work as a security guard in a bar . Largely due to the bad influence of Donnie's belligerent and bigoted brother Keith ( Greg Bryk ) , Donnie has to struggle with his family situation , trying to avoid the pain and guilt of his past while coping with his own dark secrets . His victim's father George ( Danny Glover ) stalks Donnie with the intent of killing him for the damage he has inflicted on both only his son and wife ( Tonya Lee Williams ) , but the racial tension he encounters magnifies the underlying tragedy of the past - a factor both Donnie and George must face . Violence between the blacks and whites erupts and the resolution is to be decided in a boxing match between the superior boxer Ossie Paris ( Flex Alexander ) and Donnie . After a touching encounter following a tragedy , George and Donnie bond and George trains Donnie for the fight , the first sign of erasing racial tension . How the crucial fight preparations proceed and how the fight results from the resolution of the critical conflict that has eroded the town and these people forms the surprising closure of this story . The cast is strong with the quiet lead from Danny Glover and the smoldering , conflicted Donnie by Rossif Sutherland , the fine young Canadian actor whose father is Donald Sutherland and whose half brother is Kiefer Sutherland . The film very quietly explores other conflicts , such as Donnie's sexual and emotional life with his black cell mate in prison , adding to the exploration of human behaviors that influence interpersonal schisms and barriers . This may be a low budget movie but it is a solid work well worth viewing . Grady Harp
Wants , Needs , and Accessibility	JULIE JOHNSON is a quiet little film that deals with the frustrations facing a New Jersey housewife and mother who married and birthed before she graduated high school and finds herself in a rigid relationship , longing for knowledge to change things . She considers herself stupid , sneaks Science magazines to read when her overbearing husband isn't around , and finally gathers the courage ( while staring at the stars one night ) to change her plight . She takes a computer course , passes her GED and with the constant support of her dearest girlfriend gathers the courage to get out of the stifling marriage with her husband and study to improve her lot in life . Along the way she discovers other secrets about herself , buried in the facade of a life she has led . She changes , relates to the world in a different way , and refuses to settle for returning to ' the old life ' when her husband returns promising her change . Her relationship with her girlfriend proceeds to intimate levels , but in the end this friendship cannot last , as her girlfriend doesn't have the same goals . The story is simple , but in the hands of the writers Wendy Hammond and Bob Gosse and with Gosse's fine direction , the entire cast gives us an ensemble of disparate characters in whom we can all believe . Lili Taylor plays the lead with extraordinary skill and as her girlfriend Courtney Love gives a bravura performance . The remainder of the cast ( Spalding Gray , Noah Emmerich , Gideon Jacobs , Mischa Barton , et al ) is likewise strong . But it is Taylor's film and she offers one of her most poignant performances of her career . A thoughtful , sensitive , engrossing film .
With Respect for the Jules Verne Classic Novel	Few knew when Jules Verne was writing his futuristic novels in the 19th century that such entertaining page-turners would foretell so much reality . In this 1997 adaptation of Verne's ' 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea ' the screenwriter ( Brian Nelson ) and director Rod Hardy have elected to pay homage to the scientific aspects of the thriller rather than make the story into a cartoon . And though it is a long song ( 3 hours ) , it plays well and introduces some fine special effects and philosophical statements about environmental issues , slavery , feminism , familial relationships , and commitment to dreams . Not bad for a Sci-Fi novel ! The cast is solid : Patrick Dempsey makes a wholesome , handsome Pierre Arronax , Bryan Brown as the driven sailor Ned Land , Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje is excellent as Cabe Attucks ( nice to see this fine actor in a role far different than the one he played on the TV series ' Oz ' ) , John Bach is the arrogant father Thierry Arronax , and Mia Sara serves up the beefed up role of Mara nicely . But the submarine mysterious ship Nautilus surfaces or sinks at the hands of Captain Nemo and while Michael Caine isn't the embodiment of evil we so often see , he finds the soul of the driven scientist whose goal is to protect the ' surface ' he has forsaken to scuttle the seas in search of ways to stop future earthquakes topside . Originally made as a mini-series for television in 1997 , the movie for sails along , holding our attention and fascination for the full three hours , not only because we care about the characters , but also because we are treated to some spectacular underwater sequences and a Nautilus that is as elegant a vessel as Verne described . And yes , Captain Nemo still plays the pipe organ as part of the musical score . The script gets a bit on the corny side , especially in the areas of father son relationships , and the unnecessary spin on romances that seem to be de rigueur in keeping an audiences attention . But in the end this is an entertaining interpretation of the Jules Verne classic that still stimulates our thinking and challenges our concepts of environmental concerns . Grady Harp
Camera Fetishes Focus on a Colorful Life	María Lidón directed ' Yo puta ' ( ' The Life ' ) based on material and story by Adela Ibañez and Isabel Pisano , tied in three established actors ( Daryl Hannah , Denise Richards , and Joaquim de Almeida ) , and creative camera work ( visual manipulations , frame freezing , etc ) by Ricardo Aronovich - all with the apparent intent of explaining the etiologies and manifestations of the life of prostitutes . And while many viewers find the mélange of effects ( real time interviews with fictional superimposed storyline ) too edgy to digest , for this viewer Lidón succeeds in informing her audience about the motivations and insights from honest prostitutes , gigolos , and their pimps with a gracious style . Searching for a format to tie these interviews together , the writers paired a fictional prostitute ( Hannah ) with an Anthropology student ( Denise Richards ) working on a book of interviews with prostitutes . Their roles are minor . Where the film succeeds is in the selection of interviewees - mostly Spanish ( the film is from Spain ) , but including French , Eastern European , and other nationality women and men . The moments with these people are magical showing primarily the soft interior of most of the women who know precisely what they are doing and why : there are messages of survival and true courage as well as libidinous abandonment ! There are rough spots in the film , extended moments that cry for editing , but the overall result is informative , creative and entertaining . Not for everyone perhaps , but for the curious and for those who enjoy experimental cinema this is a worthwhile film . Grady Harp
A Real Suspenseful Thriller by Mimi Leder !	Terrorist films abound these days , as though putting stories about terrorists who make mistakes is supposed to make us all feel more safe . This taut , well-written and finely acted espionage film is different that those currently in front of us : made in 1997 this film in retrospect had a better grip on just how frightening terrorism is and how two-sided the implications of danger usually are . Filmed with never let your guard down suspense , the story is rather simple : nuclear weapons are circulating with one headed to the US and the military joins with science in tracking the carrier of the bomb . George Clooney is in fine form as Lt . Col . Thomas Devoe , professional yet charismatic and his scientific colleague is Dr . Julia Kelly , with Nicole Kidman delivering a polished performance . And for once we get to see a terrorist as a person : Dusan Gavrich ( Marcel Iures ) , despite his mission to destroy us , is a vulnerable , bruised human being . The supporting roles are well handled by such strong character actors as Armin Mueller-Stahl . Cinematographer Dietrich Lohmann keeps the action lively with multi-angled shots and surveillance scenes and the tension is well maintained with the music score by Hans Zimmer . But in the final analysis the credit for the success of this film lies in the capable hands of Mimi Leder . A terrific little suspense film . Grady Harp
' In the end you have to pay the mortgage '	The fact that everyone ( well , almost ) will do anything for money - the mortgage must be paid - is only one of the subversive elements placed on the table of this bitingly satirical film . Based on the very edgy novel by Christopher Buckley , director Jason Reitman has adapted the story for the screen , populated his diatribe with a fine cast of actors , and directs the whole concept with deft precision . While many not familiar with the book's bite will be put off by the title , rest assured that no one escapes this exploration of the tobacco industry , the health industry , and the political industry unscathed . Aaron Eckhart is spot on as the tobacco lobbyist Nick Naylor , a man of style and spin who can talk his way through any confrontational encounter and come out the winner . He is supported by the tobacco kings Budd ' BR ' Rohrbacher ( J . K . Simmons ) and ' The Captain ' ( Robert Duvall ) , the movie mogul Jeff Megall ( Rob Lowe ) , by his buddies in crime Maria Bello and David Koechner with similar lobbyist roles in alcohol and firearms , and confronted by Senator Finistirre ( William H . Macy in another jewel of a role ) , ex-Marlboro Man Lorne Lutch ( Sam Elliott ) , and journalist Heather Holloway ( Katie Holmes ) . How he manages to make all of these folk satisfied with his message comprises the bulk of this flimflam man story , a tale that butchers the tobacco industry with the same vehemence as the anti-smoking brigade . The lines are fast and furious and Eckhart is superb in his role . Somehow the emphasis of the relationship and frothy philosophy sessions between Eckhart and his son ( Cameron Bright - as monochromatic a child actor as there is in the industry today ) make the movie fairly boring just when is should be picking up momentum , but that is Hollywood covering its tracks . Not a great movie , but a movie that is much better than you would expect ! Grady Harp
All Is Not What It Seems	MARRIED LIFE will probably fare better in the DVD format where this at times disturbing view of marital status can be viewed in private rather than in the company of the throngs that resemble the characters depicted in this fine little film . Based on the novel ' Five Roundabouts to Heaven ' by John Bingham and well adapted to the screen by Oren Moverman and director Ira Sachs , MARRIED LIFE is a dissection of the hallowed state of matrimony , and one that shows the creases and little holes that make so many marriages fail . it is set in the late 1940s , likely with the attempt to give some ' distance ' to the plot , but the messages remain in comparing the tale to contemporary times . Narrated by perennial playboy bachelor Richard Langley ( Pierce Brosnan ) , we are introduced to Harry Allen ( Chris Cooper ) who apparently has it all - big house , great job , sex-driven wife Pat ( Patricia Clarkson ) , country home - but Harry has fallen in love with military widow Kay Nesbitt ( Rachel McAdams ) . Harry respects and still ' loves ' Pat , but finds in Kay the love he has felt missing from his marriage . He confides his desire to leave Pat to Richard who is surprised - until Richard meets the beautiful Kay . Not wanting to hurt Pat , Harry decides the only solution is to murder Pat so that he can then marry Kay : he researches poisons and buys a potion that he plans to place in Pat's ever-present ' digestive medicine ' bottle . Harry and Kay continue their secret assignations in both Kay's home and Harry's nearby country home , but things begin to muddle as Richard falls for Kay , and Kay's attention shifts to Richard , and the devoted Pat is hiding her secret lover Tom ( David Richmond-Peck ) . As the twists and turns surface , everything unwinds and the ending of the story comes as a surprise to everyone ! The quartet of actors - Clarkson , Cooper , Brosnan , and McAdams - serve the story well and the flavor of the 1940s starts with superb opening credit images and carries through with the fine decors and attention to detail that don't seem to miss a beat in recreating the period . This is a difficult film to classify - it has comedy inherent in the absurdity of portions of the plot , it has drama in the core of the tale , and it has mystery as the surprises keep surfacing . The overall effect will be different for every viewer , depending on where in the marriage spectrum each viewer stands ! Grady Harp
An Odyssey from the Womb of Prison to the Light of the World	Adapted from Danish writer Anne Holm's 1963 best selling novel ' David ' ( translated into English in 1965 as ' I Am David ' ) and written for the screen adaptation by Director Paul Feig , this film is one of conviction on the part of all those involved to re-create the odyssey of a child into the throes of the world and all that that entails . It is a story of hope , determination , and discovery and avoids being mawkish in favor of maintaining a quiet , progressively interesting journey of the heart and the mind . David ( Ben Tibber ) is eleven years old and has live his entire life in a camp in Bulgaria , one of Stalin's Gulag Archipelago points of detention for the many who eventually died after WW II , not in Nazi camps but in the lesser known but equally severe Soviet counterparts . Having only lived as a prisoner with a single friend Johannes ( Jim Caviezel ) to guide his growth and be a surrogate parent / family , David has no concept of the world outside the confine of the camp . He is given a letter by an off screen voice with the instructions on how to escape the camp and go to Denmark to deliver this important document . David follows instructions , escapes the camp with the advice to trust no one and to blend in with the crowd for safety , and soon he begins to encounter the people of the outside world . Too frightened to trust anyone , David crosses into Salonika and eventually boards a ship bound for Italy ' befriended ' by an Italian worker , swims ashore in Italy , is offered small jobs by American tourists ( Paul Feig and Lucy Russell ) and Italian shopkeepers , and encounters a wealthy family in his brave and successful rescue of a girl from a burning house . He is treated well , yet fears connection and knows his assignment and again is on the road toward Denmark . Provided transportation to Milan by the Italian ship worker , David eventually in his walking journey finds Sophie ( Joan Plowright ) painting in the hills by Lake Como . Sophie is the first maternal figure he has encountered and provides David with safe passage to her home in Switzerland . David's fears are gently assuaged by Sophie and when Sophie discovers the contents of the envelope David has so cautiously been guarding , the contents yield the information that results in David's completing his journey to Denmark in an airplane courtesy of Sophie . The raison d'etre of the story is revealed in these last frames . The cast is uniformly excellent : Ben Tibber is a fine little actor with minimal experience , Jim Caviezel gives his best performance ( though very small ) since ' Frequency ' , and Joan Plowright adds the right dimension of professional glow to her radiant portrayal of Sophie . The many smaller cast members are genuine and memorable and the pacing of the film by Feig is on target . Roman Osin is the superb cinematographer : he has captured the dank stench of the camp as well as the many vistas of the glorious landscape of Italy and Bulgaria with finesse . The musical score by Stewart Copeland ( with a little help from Mozart's ' Ave Verum Corpus ' ! ) is enhancing and in keeping with the multiple locales of David's journey . In all this is a heartwarming , beautifully executed film that holds true to Holm's beloved book for young people . The DVD includes many deleted scenes , some of which are splendid , and an extended history of the Gulag Archipelago and the making of the film . A first rate package . Grady Harp
Finding Self , Finding Love	DU ER IKKE ALENE ( You Are Not Alone ) is a 1978 Danish landmark film written by Lasse Nielsen and Bent Petersen and directed by Nielsen and Ernst Johansen . When the period during which this film was made , a time when gay theme movies were all but verboten , this little film is a brave , delicate , tender , unpretentious tale of the bonding , both emotional and physical , that occurs between two young boys in a boarding school in Denmark . The story develops slowly and insidiously , a fact that makes some viewers find it boring or slow . But for this viewer the pacing of the story is intricately involved in this tale of the fragile first attractions that occur in young boys : everything is new , and nothing is rushed - it just happens and evolves . Kim ( Peter Bjerg ) is a young prepuberal youth living with his parents : his father ( Ove Sprogøe ) is headmaster of a boys ' school and his mother ( Elin Reimer ) is in line with the father's hard-line standards . Though not a student in the school , Kim does associate with the young high school age boys and finds one lad in particular , Bo ( Anders Agensø ) , a role model who shows concern for Kim and with whom Kim bonds , emotionally and eventually physically . The manner in which this occurs is never acted out but merely suggested in the most discreet and beautiful way . But we watch as this bond develops more strongly , with each of the boys nascent to the situation in which they find themselves . The classmates are a varied group - normal kids in a normal school situation - until one of the boys Ole ( Ole Meyer ) , who is somewhat of a trouble-maker , posts magazine pictures of nude women in his dorm room . Reprimanded by the headmaster he is put on probation and when he ultimately posts the contraband pictures in the dorm restroom , he is threatened with expulsion . His classmates band together to protect him and Ole is maintained in the school . Other sidebar stories that pepper the screen are swimming hole escapades where the injury of one of the boys calls forth the empathy of the entire class ; there is a vignette where an older woman tries to teach one of the boys the beauties of physical love ; there is a shower scene that finds Bo and Kim gently observing each other ; and there is a class project for graduation that is supposed to be an enactment of the 10 Commandments , one episode of which is assigned to a student filmmaker . It is this finished class project film , shown before the faculty and the parents , that is based on the commandment ' Love thy neighbor ' and it is a beautifully wrought scene of Bo and Kim embracing and kissing in one of the more honest and sensitive moments on film . The ' non-story ' film ends without an audience response : it simply fades away to a tune that speaks of ' You are not alone - there is someone like you ahead . ' No , this is not a film about nudity or raw sex . Instead this film is a brave exploration of the normal period in growth when boys search for role models and find their first sensations of love emerging . It is delicate , beautifully filmed and acted , and is one of the early forays into same sex love that works on every level . Grady Harp
A Time Travel Story with Heart	In AN ANGEL FOR MAY director Harley Cokeliss has assembled a fine cast and production team to bring this ' children's classic ' novel by Melvin Burgess to the screen ( screenplay by Peter Milligan ) , and in doing so he has quite successfully transferred a very tender little tale into a full blown motion picture that still maintains the gentle message of Burgess ' book . Tom ( Tam in the book - played by Matthew Beard ) is a disillusioned young lad , living in a broken home in Yorkshire England , and in need of finding meaning to his brittle life . He happens upon a relic of a structure where he encounters a dog and a ' bag lady ' , and also the entry port to a trip to the past ! Time traveling to WW II he lands in London during the blitz attacks , befriends a young girl named May ( Charlotte Wakefield ) and then time travels back to the present where he encounters disbelief in his adventure . He feels he must return to the past to save May from an impending doom and in his attempts in doing so he comes to learn much about life , death , devotion , promises , and the effects of the passage of time . The actors are exceptional , both Beard and Wakefield as children but also Tom Wilkinson and Anna Massey in roles as adults whose participation in Tom's plight are deeply touching . The cinematography is breathtakingly beautiful and the pacing of the direction is excellent . Stories such as this require a certain amount of fantasy participation in order to be effective , and this is where Cokeliss shines . He does not allow the sentiment to become cloying and he maintains enough reality checks between the adults and the children to make us believe in angels a bit . It is a sweet film , very well made , and worth the viewer's time with its important message . Grady Harp
A Story of Sexual Awakening	KEILLERS PARK is a moody film noir from Sweden , a story by Pia Gradvall directed by Susanna Edwards that approaches the frequently told fears and joys of sexual coming out in a stylish and inventive way . It is a film that embellishes a fine script with creative camera work , sensitive use of flashbacks to peel the onion of the story's meaning , and employs some very fine actors who keep the drama electrified . Peter ( Mårten Klingberg ) is a successful thirty-something son of a wealthy engineer who stands to inherit his family business and who is engaged to a beautiful artist Maria ( Karen Bergquist ) . At a gathering Peter notices a handsome Algerian Nassim ( Pjotr Giro ) and senses feelings of sexual awareness he has not known . Nassim is a happy , popular , comfortably gay man who pursues the looks exchanged . When Maria leaves town for a concert Peter and Nassim meet in Keiller Park and begin an erotic love affair : both men genuinely fall in love and the expression of their first physical encounter is one of the most subtle yet wholly erotic on film . Peter's involvement with Nassim affects his work , results in his father disowning him as he embraces the gay life , pushes Maria out of his life , and leaves him unemployed and alone except for Nassim . The story abruptly changes when the police breakdown Peter's door and arrest him for the murder of Nassim ! Peter sits with the interrogators at the police station and in his shock that Nassim is dead , unfolds the whole story of their relationship . The secrets of Peter's life and the question as to Nassim's motivations and possible continued existence mold the resolution of the story in a manner that has explored all the highs and lows of new love and the consequences of entering a life that is intolerable to the outside world . Both Pjotr Giro and Mårten Klingberg as the lovers offer highly nuanced performances and the supporting cast is very strong . Director Edwards has a sophisticated style not only with her actors , but also with her eye for atmosphere and pacing , using techniques of black and white for special moments and glowing warm lighting for the erotic scenes . She manages to allow us to see both sides of the ' coming out ' consequences in a mature manner . KEILLERS PARK is a fine art house movie . In Swedish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' Come out , come out wherever you are . . . '	HIDE AND SEEK is a multileveled film that raises as many questions as it answers . Even the screenwriter Ari Schlossberg and director John Polson seem as though they weren't sure about the mysterious workings of their characters : there are four alternative endings on the DVD , each of which suggests something much different than the final moments of this sleekly drawn suspense thriller . I like that ! This is a story that the audience will feel seduced by the odd behaviors of ALL of the characters : everyone is suspect for the spooky derring-do that fills this film . Psychologist Dr . David Calloway ( Robert DeNiro ) and his daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) are decimated by their discovery of the apparent suicide of their wife / mother Alison ( Amy Irving ) and against the advice of David's fellow psychologist Katherine ( Famke Janssen ) , they move to a spooky old house in the woods of upstate New York . Emily remains withdrawn , electing to be friends only with ' Charley ' , a probable fictive ideation . Neighbors ( Melissa Leo and Robert John Burke ) extend kindness but at the same time are a bit ominous . Even the sheriff ( Dylan Baker ) and the realtor ( David Chandler ) are weird . The only bit of light in this disturbed household radiates from Elizabeth ( Elizabeth Shue ) who offers friendship but whom Emily dislikes because she sees her as a threat to her father's memory of the deceased mother . Bizarre and heinous incidents happen with more and more regularity , each time the tragic situations attributed to Emily are blamed on her friend Charley . When everyone outside the house become suspect the story really takes a turn that results in the unsuspected ending . More than just a strange scary movie about the game of hide and seek this is a rather disturbing document on the extremes that mental illness can cause . The capable roles growth and change between DeNiro and Fanning is superb and while there may be a little too much for the average movie buff to swallow , the points are well presented . Give this little thriller a chance and see if you can diagnose the endings - better than the filmmakers could ! Not a great movie , but at least as good as others in this genre , plus it has the bonus of DeNiro and Fanning ! Grady Harp , July 05
A Film of Confused Genre	DOT THE I has so much going for it that it is sad to ultimately feel disappointed at film's end . Even as one who loves the strange and bizarre in cinema , this viewer opted out of the credibility game as the film turns from a subtle evaluation of relationships , commitments , initial physical attraction , and interesting push pull stance placed on the heroine of the story into a rapid fire series of plot twists and convolutions that simply become silly . But the good parts : Carmen ( Natalia Verbeke , and Argentinean actress who is beautiful to look at but difficult to understand through her accent ) is at a hen party in a restaurant , and is challenged to choose the last man she will ever kiss before her upcoming marriage to wealthy and handsome Barnaby ( James D'Arcy ) . She looks around the table and chooses the down and out Brazilian actor Kit ( Gael García Bernal , one of today's most exciting and sensual young actors ) as her target . They kiss and that kiss is videotaped by Kit's two buddies who apparently tape everything that catches their interest . This long kiss begins uncontrolled passion between Carmen and Kit and when their affair is discovered by Barnaby the plot turns . From this point on Carmen's allegiance to either Kit's passionate nature and Barnaby's promise of the good life cause problems . And the plot falls apart . It seems everything about these people is on videotape and the whole question of privacy in this current world of intrusion is vividly portrayed ! But the ' suicides ' , threats , games , and every conceivable plot twist occurs making the viewer ultimately not really care about any of the three characters . Matthew Park hill has skills and vision . His camera work and pacing are really fine and he allows his actors to flesh out their roles well . There is a fine chemistry between Bernal and Verbeke : with Bernal on the screen it would be difficult for they're not to be ! But this film feels like a boardroom project with everybody's vote on how to end the story included as a photographed option . Grady Harp
A Mixed Bag of Stories Glued Together by Brody's Galvanizing Performance	THE JACKET is a tough film to categorize much less to get your mind around . It is as though writers Tom Bleeker and Marc Rocco had a wealth of thoughts for a story that includes near-death experiences , mind manipulation , time travel , and messianic ideals and tried to weld them all together in a script for John Maybury to manipulate and direct . The result is a weird mishmash of a film that has some terrific moments sparkling in the meandering mess of a plot . The film would be a loss were it not for the inestimable talents of Adrien Brody who somehow makes it all fit together ! Jack Starks ( Brody ) is first seen in 1991 in the Gulf War where he approaches a small boy who shoots him in the head . Mistakenly taken for dead , Starks shows a bit of life in the triage facility and is shipped back to Vermont to recover . After release from the hospital Starks is walking the roads in the snow , befriends a child Jackie ( Laura Marano ) who stands by her stalled car while her mother Jean ( Kelly Preston ) sits on the roadside vomiting from wither pill or alcohol abuse . Starks gets the car started , tends to Jean who reacts violently and tells him to get out . Starks continues to hitchhike , is picked up by a stranger ( Brad Renfro ) and when the car is stopped by a highway patrol , the stranger kills the policeman and Starks ends up being arrested for the crime . In court he is sent to a mental hospital for the criminally insane , falls into the hands of a strange Dr . Becker ( Kris Kristofferson ) who attempts mind control experiments on him , placing him in a straight jacket then sliding him into a morgue slot for unconscionable isolation . The attempts to alter Starks ' perverse sense of violence ' result in hours of isolation when flashbacks occur ; these flashbacks ultimately result in flash forwards . Without meaningful editing we see Starks unchanged in the year 2007 where he encounters the mature Jackie ( Keira Knightley ) , a drunk whose mother Jean is dead from burning from falling asleep with a lighted cigarette . With some manipulation Starks gradually convinces Jackie he is the one who saved her in 1993 and the two try to figure out ( along with us , the viewers ! ) just what happened . At this point we have few clues as to the difference between 1993 and 2007 except those provided by the good Dr . Lorenson ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) and by some input from one of the more talkative patients in the mental hospital - Rudy Mackenzie ( Daniel Craig ) . The tale becomes more intricately twisted until at last we see the point of all the threads tie together as Starks is able to share his futuristic visions with Jackie in order to prevent occurrences less than desirable . If you can follow that synopsis ( probably just one version as seen by one viewer ! ) then you have an idea how much you have to work to make this film come together . Why there are so many big name stars ( Leigh , Craig , Kristofferson , Renfro , Lynch , etc ) in throwaway cameos is puzzling . But even with heavy handed special effects , wild camera work , and insecure direction , Adrien Brody makes the film worth watching . He continues to take on roles that are challenging and on the edge - and he does them very well ! An interesting diversion of a film for those fans of Brody who also have adequate patience . Grady Harp
And then there were two . . . Mind Games in the Woods of Canada	Cassandra Nicolaou is a writer and director with a talent for exploring the inner lives of her characters . Much of what she creates is on the surface : an equal part lies beneath the facade and reveals personal histories through the looks in eyes and the silences she encourages form her actors . Affluent mid-thirties Sarah ( the very fine Michelle Nolden ) is off from the city for a rendezvous with her lover Sam , complete with special grocery shopping and wine cases to supply them for a little getaway in their isolated mountain cabin in the woods . But when traffic snarls slows her luxury vehicle to a stop and her temper is frayed , two street kids approach , pull the squeegee scam and when rejected by Sarah , they sulk on the sidewalk and Sarah , remorseful for her behavior to them , offers them money . They accept the money and jump into the car , brandishing weapons , and treat Sarah like a hostage , instructing her to drive them out of the city . Desperate but cool , Sarah receives a cellphone call from Sam , indicating the remote cabin meeting - and the atmosphere changes . Now the girl , Jenna ( the beautiful and talented Katharine Isabelle ) and the boy , Jackson ( Kett Turton , another fine young actor ) are in complete control , and the three head to the cabin . Once in the picturesque cabin by a lake Jenna and Jackson tie Sarah to a chair and go about trying to find all possible cash and goods to steal from Sarah . The ' kidnapping ' gradually unveils secrets on the part of all three and slowly the trio , isolated and after attempted escapes by Sarah , begin to bond . The events then fall pall mall , video tapes of Sarah's private life reveal an aspect Jenna never suspected yet longs to understand and experience , Sarah and Jackson play a cat and mouse game that includes a degree of intimacy , an ' intruder ' appears with dire consequences , and the film tumbles to a painful ending for each of the trio ( now duo ) . The film begins and ends with a voice over stating ' There are two kinds of people in the world : those who need to be rescued , and those who want to rescue . ' And the plot in retrospect examines that statement thoroughly . Writer / director Nicolaou has the integrity to incorporate gender identities , childhood needs and adoption policies , and the differences in reference points between those with money and those on the street in subtle ways , careful to not make judgments but to only reveal similarities . The cast is very good and if the script is a bit repetitive in phrases over used , that is the way young people communicate and to script it otherwise would make the dialogue false . This is a fine little thriller , more for the mind but also for the physical violence aficionados . For this viewer , this is an underrated movie .
A Nice Creative Stretch in Film Making	Hans Canosa makes a strong debut with Gabrielle Zevin's intelligent screenplay ( read two character dialogue ) CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN and while some viewers may be distressed about his choice of use of the split screen presentation , Canosa's decision to be the editor of the film makes a strong argument for his artistic decision . We are able to not only see ell sides of the characters physically , but we are also allowed to step into the ' private space ' created by each of the characters , a space that grows in meaning as the film proceeds . For this viewer it enhances the story . It would be difficult to imagine two finer actors than Helen Bonham Carter and Aaron Eckhart to pull off this story . Bonham Carter has flown in form London as a last minute replacement bridesmaid for an old friend and is bored by the wedding until she encounters Aaron Eckhart whom we soon learn is the bride's brother . But coincidences don't stop there : soon the couple decide to have a night together and as they begin to share their current uncomfortable lives they recall that they were young lovers ( well played by Erik Eidem and Nora Zehetner in flashbacks ) and more than likely were married as first marriages . . . . . but to say more would ruin the repartee that these two brilliant actors enjoy playing against each other . Canosa manages to create a solid interplay between his actors and then capitalizes on the gifts of each by placing them in simultaneous and revealing views that more that provides his rationale for using the split screens as his technique . Bonham Carter is more beautiful than ever and proves she is one of our finest actresses on film , seen far too seldom these days . CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN is a sly look at relationships that slowly creeps up on you as you learn the secrets of each character . It is a fine piece of film-making ! Grady Harp
A Film with a Heart	Yes , this is another sports biography that offers a stage on which to play out the drama of the possibilities of dreams of the disenfranchised to become a reality . There are many , many films like this one and will doubtless be more : something there is about the ' team spirit ' in the identity crisis of whether or not the poor ( financially ) new guy will be able to make the physical grade that draws large audiences . It is a formula and it often works despite weak structure and production values . In the case of GOAL ! THE DREAM BEGINS the viewer can put aside the doubts as to whether the film can make it on its own : this little low profile movie is well written ( Mike Jefferies's story adapted for the screen by Adrian Butchart ) , well directed by Danny Cannon who knows well how to integrate live sports scenes into the drama , and consistently well acted by a troop of excellent actors , beginning with the very vibrant , handsome , and charismatic Kuno Becker ( ' Lucia , Lucia ' , ' Imagining Argentina ' , ' Once Upon a Wedding ' , ' English as a Second Language ' ) , a 28 year old Mexican actor with an assured future in the lead role of Santiago . The supporting roles are classy contributions by the gifted Alessandro Nivola ( ' The Sisters ' , ' Junebug ' , ' The Clearing ' , ' Laurel Canyon ' , ' Love's Labour's Lost ' , ' Mansfield Park ' etc ) , the very beautiful Anna Friel , Stephen Dillane , Marcel Iures , Tony Plana , Miriam Colon to mention only a few . The story is secondary : as a child devotee of soccer Santiago immigrates illegally into the US with his family , grows up in Los Angeles working as a gardener , a dishwasher and other menial tasks while he consumes his spare time with developing his unique talents for soccer . Despite his father's insistence that he remain with the family business of gardening , Santiago is discovered by a scout on vacation from England , a bond develops and soon Santiago is off to Newcastle to pursue his dream of being a professional soccer player . The rest is pretty obvious - the ups and downs of an asthmatic kid competing in the wild world of sports . The star of the moment is Alessandro Nivola and despite the differences in their goals and social life they become friends who help each other in tender ways . There is of course a love interest , telephone calls and encouragement form Santiago's grandmother , adjustments to life in the UK - all altering the road toward Santiago's eventually attained goal . The film is a bit lengthy ( two hours ) for the content , but then we understand this is the first of a trilogy , so get used to the story and the characters as they all remain constant for the next two installments . Whatever reservations you may have about sitting through another predictable sports movie just relax them : Kuno Becker alone is worth the time invested in this very fine little film . Grady Harp
The Permutations of the Broken Family	Noah Baumbach makes an impressive debut as writer / director of his autobiographical story THE SQUID AND THE WHALE . It is a piece of life sliced out of the 1980s that is just as pertinent to today's culture as it was to the period piece Baumbach resurrects . Bernard Berkman ( Jeff Daniels ) is a shell of a being , a once famous writer who is now living as an unctuous teacher while his wife Joan ( Laura Linney ) is rising in fame as a novelist . Their marriage is obviously tired : 17 years have endured dissatisfactions that have finally bubbled to the surface where the couple decides to separate . They have two boys : Walt ( Jesse Eisenberg ) is a teenager who writes music and worships his father's literary mind while the younger Frank is a wide eyed devotee of his mother's affection . They are polarized in their commitments to their separating parents and struggle with the business of adapting to joint custody and split homes . Walt escapes into music that results in an embarrassing secret and into nascent sexual experiences with his plain girlfriend Sophie ( Halley Feiffer ) , encountering sexual dysfunction in ego damaging ways . Frank responds with his own brand of sexual dysfunction that is at once hilarious and disturbing . Bernard takes on a licentious student Lili ( Anna Paquin ) who is without a place to stay , complicating libido-driven Frank's life and blurring Bernard's perception of propriety . When it is discovered that Joan has been having affairs throughout the marriage and is now involved with the boys ' tennis coach Ivan ( William Baldwin ) , the family's fragile surface cracks open and the fracture is a compound one . How this dysfunctional family unit copes with the new way of life is the means to the end of the film . While each of the actors gives career defining performances ( even the young boys are superb ) the film leaves us with a somewhat distant feeling : as well as these characters is each described and enacted it is very difficult to like or identify with any of them , as they are each self-centered and narrow minded people making them difficult to enjoy . But that fact doesn't alter the final result of a film beautifully written , directed and acted . This is first-rate movie making from a young artist with an exciting future . It will be great to watch for his next , less personalized story . Grady Harp
Inside Hollywood : Comedy about the Sobering McCarthy Era	STRAIGHT JACKET began as a play by writer / director Richard Day and Day transforms this bit of fluff about Hollywood and its foibles and hidden secrets in the 1950s with the panache that true comedy must have : verisimilitude . The look of the film within a film has the constant appearance of being ' on camera ' and that bit of execution makes the film really work . Day deals with issues such as closeted gay actors and actresses , film moguls with an eye on the buck more than on art , the sub rosa gay scene of the time ( pre Stonewall ) among others . Though there is some parody on the life of Rock Hudson it is only a sidebar . Guy Stone ( Matt Letscher ) is a handsome , successful movie star with a devoted female audience who gives the public appearance of being straight while carrying on a wild but anonymous gay sex life . His agent Jerry ( Veronica Cartwright ) struggles to keep him in tow , always aware that should his sexual preference become public that his acting career would be over . When Guy is photographed en flagrante Jerry decides that the story must not leak , a story which would prevent his obtaining the role of Ben Hur , and convinces Guy to quickly get married - the most available ' wife ' would be the ditsy , star struck secretary Sally ( Carrie Preston ) whose boss Saul ( Victor Raider-Wexler ) agrees as a solution . Once married Guy discovers Sally's obsession with being a 1950s wife complete with the tacky re-do of his pad , drowning him in affection , and . . . preventing him from his nightly sojourns into the gay world . Guy meets pro communist writer Rick Foster ( Adam Greer ) who has written Guy's latest film , a script that must be doctored to pass McCarthyisms . They do the courtship dance and eventually actually fall in love , much to Guy's consternation ! The political and conscientious differences between the two are forgotten until their pairing is discovered . Guy is asked to go before the TV cameras to confess his homosexuality ( which the McCarthyites equate with Communism ) and to give names of others who are of like nature . At this point the film becomes poignant and the manner in which the films is resolved is best left to the surprise of the viewer . While some may feel this ' change of direction ' in a comedy is melodramatic , others will see the conclusion as a meaningful resolution that maintains that ' comedy ' is just the other side of the mask of ' tragedy ' . The sets and costumes and flow of the film are quite well done , successfully transporting us to the dazzle of the Fifties and the many mindless motion pictures that flooded the screens . The individual actors are good with especial kudos to Veronica Cartwright who can toss away one-liners with the aplomb of the best of comediennes . Carrie Preston is wholly convincing as the platinum blonde fluff head and delivers a song very well . While Letscher and Greer perform well there is no magic in their bond , even after their true feelings are revealed : they remain uninvolved with each other as actors so there is little to no sexual tension . The musical score is just this side of atrocious but it suits the era . In all , this is an entertaining if overlong film with an important re-enactment of a scary time in Hollywood that meanders a bit too much for the final punch it could have had . Grady Harp
Nostalgia and Reverie - A Cinematic Mood Piece	Criticism of the film EVENING , based on the novel by Susan Minot and adapted for the screen by Minot and Michael Cunningham , has been harsh , so harsh that it may have discouraged many viewers from giving the film a try . The primary criticism has centered on the fact that very little happens in this film about a dying woman's fretting over a mistake she made one summer in her youth , that famous actors were given very minor roles , that the entire production was over-hyped , etc . For this viewer , seeing the film on a DVD in the quiet of the home , a very different reaction occurred . Ann Grant Lord ( Vanessa Redgrave ) is dying in her home by the ocean and her medication and memories allow her to share a man's name - ' Harris ' - with her two grown daughters Nina ( Toni Colette ) and Constance ( Natasha Richardson ) . As her daughters sit at her bedside Ann relives a particular summer when she was a bridesmaid for her best friend Lila ( Mamie Gummer ) - a marriage both Ann ( Claire Danes as the youthful Ann ) and Lila's alcoholic brother Buddy ( Hugh Dancy ) objected to , feeling that Lila was simply marrying a man of her class instead of the boy she had loved - Harris Arden ( Patrick Wilson ) , her housekeeper's son who had become a physician . Harris , Buddy , Lila , and Ann are woven together in a series of infatuations and romances that have been kept secret until now , 50 years later , as Ann is dying . The older Lila ( Meryl Streep ) visits Ann at the end and the secrets are revealed : ' there are no such things as mistakes - life just goes on . ' The film is a delicate mood piece and the script by Minot and Cunningham is rich in atmosphere and subtle life lessons . Yes , there are gaps in the story that could have used more explanation , but in order to maintain the aura of nostalgia of a dying lady's words , such ' holes ' are understandable . The film is graced by the presence of not only Redgrave , Richardson ( Redgrave's true daughter ) , Collette , Gummer ( Streep's true daughter ) , Meryl Streep , Claire Danes , Eileen Atkins , Glenn Close , Hugh Dancy and Patrick Wilson , but also with an ensemble cast of brief but very solid performances . The setting is gorgeous ( cinematography by Gyula Pados ) and the musical score is by the inimitable Jan A . P . Kaczmarek . Lajos Koltai ( " Being Julia ' ) directs . Judge this film on your own . . . . Grady Harp
Cynthia Nixon and Michael Angarano Shine in this Tender Story	The concept for this little Indie film - the dying wish of a teenager opening spiritual doors - is far from original , but Barry Stringfellow's strong script as directed by Alex Steyermark ( whose only other directorial venture was ' Prey for Rock and Roll ' , though he has been on the crew of some very fine films like ' Pieces of April ' etc ) results in a far from ordinary drama . For those who have not seen Cynthia Nixon expand beyond her ' Sex and the City ' role , this performance will be enlightening ! Dylan ( Michael Angarano ) is a young teenager diagnosed with terminal cancer , a fact that he shares with his loony buddies ( Gideon Glick and Matt Bush ) who support him with silly but genuine companionship . Dylan's mother Carol ( Cynthia ) is still reeling from her husband's death ( Ethan Hawke ) and facing the loss of the one remaining part of her family is devastating but her strength of character keeps a positive support for Dylan . When Dylan is informed by his doctor ( Brian Stokes Mitchell ) that further radiation and chemotherapy are useless , Dylan places his desire for living on one last thing . . . he is on a TV show where dying wishes are granted , and rather than the asking for expected fishing trip with football hero Jason ( Johnny Messner ) , he opts for a weekend alone with supermodel Nikki Sinclair ( Sunny Mabrey ) . Nikki , we discover , has problems and demons of her own and her agent Arlene ( Gina Gershon ) , in trying to rescue her faltering career , advises the reluctant Nikki to visit Dylan in his home in Pennsylvania - for positive PR purposes . Once they meet Dylan is determined to have his one last thing , gains money and a room ( a gift form Jason ) in New York and travels with his sidekicks to the Big Apple to cash in on his prize . The Nikki he finds is the wasted girl down at heels and though she feels tenderness toward Dylan she tells him to just go home . Dylan's disease progresses to the point of final hospitalization when Nikki re-enters the sad room and changes things . The power that changes this predictable story lies in the extraordinarily sensitive performances of Michael Angarano , who plays Dylan with a twinkle in his eye and allows us to feel his burden with resorting to bathos , and the always-impressive Cynthia Nixon whose performance as Dylan's mother is the most understated and heart wrenching on film . She owns the screen whenever she is on . The supporting cast is strong ( though Gideon Glick and Matt Bush are allowed to become obnoxious and would have benefited from some stronger direction ) . In all , this is a striking , simple , compelling film that rises well above its premise to become an important statement about death and dying and the power of hope and love and family . Grady Harp
Running Home	LAKE CITY is a little low budget film that has a good enough story behind it , backed by several social issues that are well handled to make it work . Writers / Directors Hunter Hill and Perry Moore present a flavorful feeling of the South and keep this at times creaky story line moving along with the necessary momentum to maintain the viewer's interest . The male lead of the film is in the Fonda line ( Jane as mother , Peter as uncle , Henry as grandfather ) and as such Troy Garity seems to have inherited the right genes . As Billy he is the central character : Billy left a troubled home to seek his fortune as a guitar musician , but became involved with Hope ( Drea de Matteo ) who is deep into drugs and drug theft and has left son Clayton ( Colin Ford ) in Troy's care . Troy is implicated in the drug theft and narrowly escapes death at the hands of dealer Red ( David Matthews ) , taking Clayton with him to his hometown and mother Maggie ( Sissy Spacek ) . Troy's alcoholism and trauma drive him to AA meetings where he shares time with his old girlfriend-now-a-cop Jennifer ( Rebecca Romijn ) . There are flashbacks that suggest a childhood trauma in Troy's past , a trauma that has driven a schism between Troy and Maggie . And there are many twists and turns ( some rather poorly delineated ) that would be spoilers to reveal , but suffice it to say that this druggie on the run and son / mother relationship as well as the origin of the young keenly observant and needy Clayton together unfold the history of a family at risk . Sissy Spacek is fine as Maggie and Troy Garity shows strong promise as Troy . There are some minor subplots that include actors such as Keith Carradine that add little except atmosphere . Despite its flaws LAKE CITY provides strong entertainment . Grady Harp
All that was Rome	AUGUSTUS ( also known as IMPERIUM : AUGUSTUS ) is a film made for television , which could explain how its three and one half hour length would be spread over at least three nights . This movie was made with an obvious plentiful budget , sponsored by the Italian government and US filmmakers , and the result is a complex and nicely detailed biographical study of the first Emperor of Rome , Augustus Caesar , the man whose reign spanned the BC / AD time frame with all the attendant changes in world geography and history and religious orders . It was a time of Rome's greatness and a time of Rome's disintegration . Writer Eric Lerner and Director Roger Young wisely elected to tell this tale as a series of flashbacks as recalled by the aged , dying Augustus brilliantly portrayed by Peter O'Toole . His very presence gives the project credibility and dignity and helps the viewer forgive any of the many shortcomings that dot this epic . Augustus is attended by his wife Livia ( again , a wise choice in casting the always superb Charlotte Rampling to bring this odd woman to life ) . With some adroit camera superimpositions of the old Augustus ' face the story goes back in time to the death of Julius Caesar , the one who appointed the young Augustus ( Benjamin Sadler ) to be his successor . It is 42 BC and the young Augustus , together with his sidekicks Agrippa ( Ken Duken ) and Maecenas ( Russell Barr in a foppish turn ) , struggle through the Senate , the noblemen , and the poor people of Rome who all have been ignored during Julius Caesar's infamous wars to expand the Empire . The complicated lineage to the ' throne ' of Rome is manipulated by Julia ( Vittoria Belvedere ) , Marc Antony ( Massimo Ghini ) , Tiberius ( Michele Bevilacqua ) and Iullus ( Juan Diego Botto ) , the son of Marc Antony , among many others . Along the way we meet Cleopatra ( Anne Valle ) and Cicero ( Gottfried John ) and many of the other casually dropped names of Roman history . Though the names and the changes of who is ruling who at any one time can be confusing to even the most astute Roman historian , the writer and director do their best to make this story flow so that it all is of a piece . The acting is superb for the leads , adequate for the secondary roles , and the camera work manages to make the numerous battlefield sequences seem cogent . In the end is the beginning : the death of Augustus . A casual mention is made that during his reign there was born in the land of Judea a child whose name was Jesus . . . and suddenly the whole lengthy film gathers more meaning . This is a fine overview of Roman history and civilization and thanks to the fine work by Peter O'Toole and Charlotte Rampling the result is very satisfying . Grady Harp
McEwan's Internal Dialogues Made Visual	Ian McEwan masterfully written novels capitalize on interior dialogues , tracing mental vagaries that reveal the workings of the mind . While reading McEwan is a particular intellectual joy , transposing his tightly wrought stories to the screen would seem a daunting project . Thanks to the fine screenplay by Joe Penhall and the sensitive , minimalist approach to directing of Roger Michell ENDURING LOVE bleeds into our visual fields as a more or less successful transformation . Joe ( Daniel Craig ) , a professor of ' biology / philosophy ' mix , and Claire ( Samantha Morton ) , a sculptor , are in a long-standing relationship that seems well grounded . They are introduced sunning on a picnic near Oxford when a red hot air balloon glides by and gradually begins a disastrous descent . The pilot John Logan ( Lee Sheward ) is trapped by a rope , his son in the basket of the balloon is unable to respond to his cries to release the cord and the balloon takes off with John dangling . Joe and two other men rush to help , grabbing the basket , when a mighty wind whooshes them upward while they dangle precariously from the basket . The three men disengage and fall to safety leaving Logan trapped along with his son . Logan is lifted dangerously high and eventually falls to his death , the boy surviving in a simple landing of the balloon some miles away . The accident triggers the story : one of the helpers - Jed ( Rhys Ifans ) - on finding the mutilated body of Logan turns to Joe and pleads with Joe to pray : a connection or bond is formed in Jed's eyes . That evening as Claire and Joe dine with their close friends Robin ( Bill Nighy ) and Rachel ( Susan Lynch ) Joe's guilt and remorse over not saving Logan surface and despite support form Claire , Robin , and Rachel those feelings builds in intensity . One of McEwan's signature ' arbitrary nightmares ' begins when Jed begins trying to contact Joe , a schema which becomes a stalking : Jed is obsessed with Joe , constantly trying to have Joe admit to a profound love that started between the two of them at the moment of the accident . Joe is slowly sucked into Jed's obsession and this perseverating behavior becomes a distancing wedge between Joe and Claire . Joe tries to assuage his guilt by visiting Logan's wife ( Helen McRory ) who introduces yet another circumstantial twist to the quagmire of the consequences of the accident . How Joe and Claire spin away from each other is part of the delirium incited by Jed's incessant interference . The final confrontation with all three involved ends tensely and with bloodshed : Joe's perception of ' love ' as a biological entity is challenged as he sees the impact of a single circumstance erode his life . The ending is weak ( hence four stars as opposed to five ) and sort of gasps for air in a disappointing ' anti-resolution . ' Each of the actors is strong , especially Craig , Morton , and Ifans , and while we may not empathize with their characters , there is much to admire from their skills . The cinematography by Haris Zambarloukos is extraordinary for both the glorious exteriors shots and for the production design sets by John Paul Kelly . The musical score by Jeremy Sams is well motivated until the gushy mush that accompanies the end credits . Michell's direction feels related to McEwan's novel and if the addition of visual extremes at times breaks away from his otherwise terse , minimalist approach , that is probably the need of creating a motion picture for audiences accustomed to gory details . Doubtless there will be different responses from those who have read the book and those who have not , but that is part of the pleasure of seeing a novel become film . It is all relative . Grady Harp
The Etiology of Sexual Arousal : Edge of Life Terror	David Cronenberg takes chances and his pushing the edge of cinematic art is what makes his films so interesting . JG Ballard's controversial novel CRASH seemed an unlikely prospect for a film , so dark were its explorations of the outer zones of excitation and their relationship to near-death events . But Cronenberg worked through making Ballard's visions visual and his screenplay based on Ballard's book is more about interior dialogue and visceral sexual encounters as they relate to trauma . James Ballard ( James Spader ) is a successful TV director who spends as much time as a lothario as he does making film . He is married to Catherine ( Deborah Kara Unger ) whose own sexuality leads her into stray paths . The two seem to connect physically but the fire is diminishing : they both concur that encounters with other partners enhance their sexual experiences . James is in a car accident and survives with a broken leg and scars , but the other car's male driver was killed and his surviving female companion Helen Remington ( Holly Hunter ) is hospitalized with James . While in the hospital both encounter a strange , scarred , limping male photographer Vaughn ( Elias Koteas ) who takes photos of the scars and trauma results of both James and Helen . Catherine visits James in the hospital and seems to find excitement in the scars and orthopedic paraphernalia binding her husband . Once James is released from the hospital he is strangely drawn to the car he wrecked and finds Helen in the same mindset . The two move into physical attraction as well as an emotional attraction to Vaughn . Vaughn is obsessed with auto accidents , having been in many , and he stages famous car accidents ( James Dean , Jayne Mansfield , etc ) for a captive audience - which includes James , Helen , and Catherine . Vaughn insidiously draws the three into his obsession , sharing his ' actors ' and fellow travelers - including Gabrielle ( Rosanna Arquette - with both legs in orthopedic mechanisms ) , Colin and Vera Seagrave ( Peter MacNeill and Cheryl Swarts ) and those who help him stage his ' accidents ' . Vaughn explains that he is exploring how to achieve that sensation of terror one feels during a car crash and equate it with orgasm . The odd group of folks all sexually interact with abandon : the crashed car becomes the bedchamber for bizarre sexual acting out . And how this all plays out in the end is the part of the film that simply must be seen to feel the experience . This is clearly NOT a movie for everyone . The CD contains both the NC and the R rated version : I watched the NC version and while it is graphic and focused on sex it is oddly uninvolving emotionally - we care little about the people we meet . Perhaps part of the story here is that with the progressively dehumanization of man in his symbiotic relationship with machines , relating to fellow humans on anything except the sensual gratification is something we are losing . That is the kind of powerful statement Cronenberg shows us with these passionate yet cold people . The cast is exceptional , especially Koteas whose warped character is wholly three-dimensional as opposed to the oddly uninvolved characters Spader , Unger , and Hunter portray . A dizzying experience ! Grady Harp
A Black and White Movie with a Story that is Anything but Black and White	Viewers are split on reaction to Steven Soderbergh's experimental THE GOOD German and for good reason . The theatrical and cinematic qualities of this film noir are stunning , creating not only a flashback to the 1940s films but to the period of the 1940s in postwar Europe . The story is rich in suspense , visual surprises , and intrigue , and manages to unfold a complex tale involving many characters in a manner that keeps the viewer guessing about the outcome until the final image fades . But the film takes a hefty does of patience to appreciate . Potsdam conference , 1945 in decimated Berlin is the scene . Capt . Jacob ' Jake ' Geismer ( George Clooney ) arrives to observe and report on the conference and is assigned a driver named Tully ( Tobey Maguire ) , a fast talking , manipulative opportunist who loves post-war Berlin for the easy money it allows a doofus like him to make . Tully happens to have a lover , the mysterious Lena Brandt ( Cate Blanchett ) , who he is trying to assist in escaping from Germany . As luck would have it Lena had been a previous lover of Jake in his prior time in Berlin . The action begins when the Russians , the British , and the Americans reveal their attempt to locate rocket scientist Emil Brandt , Lena's husband who she declares has been long dead . A murder occurs , espionage takes over and the film runs its cat and mouse chase for the discovery of the real Emil Brandt and the secrets his capture represent at this crucial junction in time - the Potsdam Conference . The characters in the film come close to being caricatures : Ravil Isyanov as the main Russian figure , Beau Bridges and Jack Thompson as the main American figures , Robin Weigert as the requisite good prostitute / stripper roommate of Lena , Tony Curran representing the British presence , and Don Pugsley as the German evil presence that ties the whole story together . Blanchett is her usual splendid self , adding a true sense of mystery and allure to her multifaceted role , George Clooney is on target as Jake , and Tobey Maguire manages to get on our nerves as the nerdy but clever Tully . The pleasure in this film comes from Soderbergh's mastery of the medium not only as director but as cinematographer , and by Thomas Newman's period perfect score as orchestrated by the immensely talented Thomas Pasatieri fleshes out the film's effect . Knowing that public and critical reaction is split , the film is a good evening of adventure : every viewer will elect which side of the critique to follow . Grady Harp
Fireflies and the Effects of Extinguishing a Brief Life	The profound effects of the accidental death of a child on three families is vividly portrayed in this dark film by writer / director Terry George ( ' Hotel Rwanda ' , Hart's War ' , ' In the Name of the Father ' ) as adapted and co-written by John Burnham Schwartz on whose novel the film is based . While it seems we are seeing a glut of films dealing with revenge on the part of injured people who feel the Law isn't fulfilling its duty , when a film such as RESERVATION ROAD comes along the theme feels fresh . Ethan and Grace Learner ( Joaquin Phoenix and Jennifer Connelly ) and their children Josh ( Sean Curley ) and Emma ( Elle Fanning ) are the ' perfect family ' , living comfortably in Connecticut , until one night after a picnic where Josh captured fireflies for his sister , the family stops at a roadside station and while Josh releases the fireflies at his mother's request he is hit by a car and killed . The driver of the car is Dwight Arno ( Mark Ruffalo ) who is trying to return his son Lucas ( Eddie Alderson ) to his estranged , remarried wife Ruth ( Mira Sorvino ) after a baseball game that ran too long . Instead of stopping when he hits the child , Dwight drives on , not wanting to upset his son . Within the tragedy of the next week the Learners are devastated and feel the police are not finding the perpetrator . They decide to engage a lawyer to assist the investigation and the lawyer they engage is Dwight , a man so torn by the sadness of his life that he is barely functioning - trying to find some solace in restoring a solid relationship with his son while dealing with the fact that he has killed another family's son . The events that proceed reveal the agonies of the accident and the effect of that death on both Ethan ( enraged ) and Grace ( desperately trying to focus on her remaining child ) , and on Dwight ( obsessed with guilt and driven to thoughts of suicide ) and his ex-wife Ruth who acts as an unknowing intermediary . The final effects on each of these bruised people bring a surprising end to the story . The quality of acting is strong as we have come to expect with the likes of Phoenix , Connelly , Ruffalo and Sorvino , who bring us into the tough story with considerable commitment : we understand the thoughts and drives of each of these sad characters . Adding to the sensitive atmosphere is yet another strong musical score by Mark Isham who understands the fine art of creating a soundtrack that enhances the story . The theme may be a bit repetitive and the script somewhat formulaic , but the emotional effect on the viewer cannot be denied . Grady Harp
Strange and Fascinating Detective Story	Helpful Note : Wikipedia definition : Quid pro quo ( Latin for " something for something " ) indicates a more-or-less equal exchange or substitution of goods or services . Carlos Brooks makes an impressive debut as both writer and director of this little independent film QUID PRO QUO , a story that may make some viewers uncomfortable because of the subject matter , but an intelligent investigation of a subculture unknown to most and a script that leads to a surprising ending - if the viewer keeps thinking after the rolling credits are over ! Isaac ( Nick Stahl ) is a reporter for a small radio station , a role that gives him the opportunity to uncover novel human interest stories for his audience . Interestingly , Isaac is a paraplegic , confined to a wheelchair since age 8 when he was the survivor of a car crash that killed both his parents . He has full function of most of his body , but cannot walk . Isaac receives an email from one ' Ancient Chinese Girl ' that contains a message about a person who convinced a doctor to amputate a normal leg . Isaac is fascinated and sets out to investigate the story and eventually discovers the source of the email - one young and very beautiful Fiona ( Vera Farmiga ) - who introduces him to a subculture of people who want to be wheelchair bound : in a group meeting Isaac hears strange stories from a disparate group of people who meet to discuss their obsession with being paralyzed , their chance to be noticed and cared about as quasi-invalids who would go so far as having an amputation of a normal limb to enable their wheelchair dreams . Isaac soon discovers that Fiona shares this obsession , demonstrates her secrets to Isaac , and the two begin to bond physically and emotionally . Isaac is the first person to see Fiona make her ' debut ' in public in a wheelchair . They share lunch in a café and share their life experiences : Isaac confesses that he harbors foreshortened memory of his accident - his last memory is lying in the road seeing a young girl with red and white pompoms trying to save him . Isaac surprises himself ( and shares his surprise with Fiona ) when he buys a pair of ' Fred Astaire shoes ' , and upon trying them on , he is able to walk ! Fiona's response is mixed - she is happy that Isaac is ambulatory but at the same time she is led to believe that Isaac's paralysis may be of an hysterical nature , that he really has never been paralyzed except as a reaction to the guilt he harbors about his parent's death and his sole survivorship of the accident . How these two people deal with the information as it develops provides a startling ending to this story , a detective mystery that in retrospect proves to have given us , the audience , countless clues throughout the film - clues only discovered in retrospect ! Both Nick Stahl and Vera Farmiga give vital performances , able to draw us in to their odd characters and make us care . There are many fine cameo roles - Kate Burton as Fiona's mother , James Frain as Isaac's priest friend , and all the members of the wannabe wheelchair bound group - and the cinematography by Michael McDonough is both appropriately claustrophobic indoors and transcendently beautiful in the tulip fields of Skagit Valley , WA used as the setting for the upstate New York accident location . Mark Mothersbaugh ties the moods of the film together with his expert musical score . This is a tough little film to watch , but a film that supplies much gratification and challenge . It is a fine debut for Carlos Brooks . Recommended . Grady Harp
The West Hollywood , Texas Scythe-Wielding Massacre !	HELLBENT is a tough movie to classify . Yes , it is about a serial killer on one Halloween night in West Hollywood , but it also seems to be a light-hearted takeoff on all the silly teenage massacre horror films . Is it parody or was it meant to be a thriller ? No matter , because what we get is an entertaining , well-paced , witty-scripted , full of tension foray through the clubs and alleyways of the very colorful West Hollywood Halloween atmosphere . Don't search for story motivation : there doesn't seem to be one . A devil-garbed body builder beheads boys , leaving the corpses sans heads to the horror of the community just as Halloween festivities are beginning . Our main characters are four friends who are out for a good time , the leader of whom is costumed as a cop and in reality is a wannabe policeman who failed the course due the loss of an eye . His fellow friends are zippy , tight , and fun loving and along the way many of them fall victim to the ' devil's scythe ' ( and yes , that is shown in grisly detail ! ) . There is a lot of chase action in dark rooms and darker woods and alleys and the fear quotient is pretty high . The problem is the ending , which doesn't answer any plot motivational questions and unfortunately leaves the door open for future follow-up adventures ( or is this merely part of the parody of the multitudinous versions of Freddy , I Know What You Did Last Summer , etc teenie flicks ? ) . The cast is attractive and seems to be enjoying themselves as actors . The lighting and costuming and musical scoring are on a par with the best production values of films of this genre . In the end it is fun to see a thriller played solely in the gay community without preachy comparisons or strife with the straight folk . It is entertaining for everyone .
The Courage of John Cameron Mitchell	Finally there is a film that rises to the intelligent choices of European cinema ! In a giant leap forward John Cameron Mitchell has broken the taboo of frankly cinematically captured sexuality that has so long embarrassed American filmmakers . What he has created in this important experimental film SHORTBUS is not only a fascinating probe into the complexities of contemporary sexuality but also a group of relationship stories that stand on terra firma and are not merely a matrix for the frank sexuality from which they are derived . John Cameron Mitchell visits the relationships of several couples : a Canadian Chinese couples therapist / sex therapist ( Sook-Yin Lee ) who describes herself as " pre-orgasmic - she has never had an orgasm - married to a stay at home man ( Raphael Barker ) : a young gay couple Jamie ( PJ DeBoy ) and James ( Paul Dawson ) who are considering opening up their monogamous relationship ; a Dominatrix ( Lindsay Beamish ) and her long time male client among others . The location is New York City and in this melting pot is a club called ' Shortbus ' where all manner of people visit to observe and participate in orgiastic activities , all with the goal of improving their libidinous experiences and heightening their pleasure zones And it is in this club that each of the couples meet and interface and change and grow . The film shows just about every form of sexual activity , none of it hidden from the camera at all . Mitchell has the courage and skill to draw from a cast of unknowns some particularly strong characters and he is able to show full frontal tumescent men and uninhibited women like no other American filmmaker has dared . The rewarding aspect is that Mitchell has finally succeeded in making a quality film for the open minded intelligent public who will not shy away in pilgrimesque fright . Mitchell's first film was ' Hedwig and the Angry Inch ' which has become a cult favorite . With SHORTBUS he steps further into the arena of successful American experimental cinema with a courageous and wholly enjoyable little work of art . He is a standard bearer and hopefully will open the gates for other directors to bury the fear of filming the sexual being - especially the ages long phobia of male frontal nudity ! Grady Harp
Distilled Austen Makes for a Fine Brew	Some will ask " how many versions of Jane Austen's read-to-the-point-of-fraying ' Pride and Prejudice ' do we need ? " The current film archives show no fewer than ten versions and growing . But for this viewer the current P & P du jour is as satisfying as any , edited and distilled to its main story lines without diminishing the main message from the author . Deborah Moggach can be thanked for the screenplay ( with some subtle revisions by Emma Thompson ) and Joe Wright for his sensitive and forward momentum directing approach . So what make this version different and successful ? First , the placement of the Bennet family in the pig and mud friendly country home that sets the scene properly for the driver of the film - finding proper husbands for the five daughters whose well placed marriages will assure the lower class Bennet family a future stability . Yes , it is a bit untidy , this household , but that makes it a family more dependent on the land and more prone to dreams of ' marrying up ' in a country ruled by class system . Second , the casting of the Bennnet family with five truly young actresses ( Keira Knightly , Rosamund Pike , Talulah Riley , Jena Malone , Carey Mulligan ) instead of older types trying to appear like teenagers ; a mother ( Brenda Blethyn ) who indeed shows her desperation of class ; and a father ( Donald Sutherland ) who epitomizes Austen's father figure mold . Add to the Bennets the credible men characters of Simon Woods , Matthew Macfadyen , Tom Hollander , and Cornelius Booth and top it all off with a pivotal Lady Catherine de Bourg of Judi Dench and all players are in place for a fine cast . The dialogue is crisp and sharp and the usual diversions into lineage names and sidebars are eliminated , bringing this long story down to just over two hours . The scenery and costumes are superb as is the cinematography by Roman Oshin and the musical score by Dario Marianelli with a lot of help from Henry Purcell . Is it one of the best movies of the year ? Perhaps , perhaps not , depending on taste . But it is nice to see Keira Knightly shine in a role more challenging than any she has had to date . She inhabits Elizabeth Bennet luminously . Grady Harp
A Smart , Snappy , Sensitive Coming Out Movie	Writer / director / producer Tennyson Bardwell is definitely a talent to watch . In his first venture into film , DORIAN BLUES , he has created an intelligent script with razor sharp dialogue , witty and acerbic and touching depending on the moment , and has cast his film with a fine groups of actors who obviously hold him in great respect , as the final product is a polished film that is always entertaining as well as informative . Few ' coming out ' films flesh out the territory as succinctly and realistically as this . Dorian Lagatos ( a fresh and talented Michael McMillian ) is sour on the world that doesn't understand him . His family is the microscope on his world : a right wing radical father Tom ( Charles Fletcher ) , a seemingly ditsy but subservient mother Maria ( Mo Quigley ) , and a brother Nicky ( another bright and hunky talent Lea Coco ) who is everything Dorian isn't - a jock , a ladies ' man , and a happy-go-lucky high schooler . Dorian has an ' epiphany ' : he discovers the reason he doesn't fit in is that he is gay ! With his discovery he finds some solace from another edgy gay friend Spooky ( Austin Basis ) but still feels he must remain in the closet . Finally he confides in Nicky who surprisingly listens to him and accepts him - just so long as Dorian doesn't act out . Frustrated , Dorian leaves for New York for college while Nicky wins a sports scholarship to another college . In New York Dorian finds the gay life , feels ' normal ' at last , falls in love , confronts rejection and the games people play , and then lives a despondent life until Nicky visits him : Nicky has lost his scholarship . The two brothers make the rounds of Dorian's milieu until they receive a phone call that their father has died . Returning home Dorian must still face his anger at his father , though dead , and it is this anger that his mother ( far more sensitive than Dorian ever knew ) confronts Dorian and the message of the movie is completed in a very realistic and understanding way . Life's philosophy is not wholly bound to one's sexual preferences . Michael McMillian and Lea Coco both give notice of being young gifted actors to watch . And the apparently ' film inexperienced ' Charles Fletcher and Mo Quigley deliver radiant cameo roles . Indeed the entire supporting cast is excellent , perhaps due to the fact the Bardwell is a fine director ! This is a gay coming out film that is intelligent , free of the usual visuals that distract the general audience , and one that has more healthy bits of psychology scattered throughout than many a feature film . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Light , Pleasant Entertainment , but the Message is Getting Tired	KINKY BOOTS has a lot of positive things going for it - a cast that is committed , a pace that is fluid , the presence of some fun song and dance sequences , and a lot of sight gags and moments of introspection and awakening . The problem is that , for all the sweet ideas the film explores , the story has been repeatedly done : small town folk facing job loss and identity crises turn things ' round to have a jolly ending ( Calendar Girls , Billy Elliot , Waking Ned Devine , The Full Monty , etc ) . But this film works on many levels and is definitely worth an evening's entertainment . Charley Price ( Joel Edgerton ) has been groomed since childhood to take over the Price Shoe Factory in Northampton yet when he finishes schooling he is off to London to lead his own life when suddenly his father dies and the shoe factory is doomed unless he returns . Finding the production of men's brogues in disarray ( he is on the dangerous edge of bankruptcy ) he begins letting the long-term employees go until one of the spunkier ones Lauren ( Sarah-Jane Potts ) reprimands him into thinking about finding new avenues for the factory's future . A tip to London and to a nightclub with Drag Queens sparks the idea of creating high heeled boots that can support a man's weight : the new market will be drag queens . One star drag queen is Lola / Simon ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ) is brought to the factory , startles the workers with her style , but comes up with a design for kinky boots that eventually the factory successfully makes and enters into the fashion line at Milan : the factory - and the people who work there - is saved and minds are broadened and changed . The story is at its best when it involves the numerous drag numbers by Chiwetel Ejiofor who is clearly the star of this film . He is a compassionate person , plays his role with fire and spice and vulnerability and steels every scene he is in . The remainder of the cast ( including the very reliable Linda Bassett - Oscar and Lucinda , The Hours , Calendar Girls , Separate Lies , etc - , Nick Frost , Stephen Marcus , and others ) is superb . So for a storyline idea a bit stale ( even though it is based on a true tale ) , the movie works : it is an ensemble creation .
The Beauty and Danger of the Deep	INTO THE BLUE surprises . Despite an opening sequence that is frightening and grisly , this film starts with the feeling that it is another pretty people at the beach flick - mindless , but visually attractive ' what I did last summer on the waves ' story . But stay tuned : this is a film of visual splendor and tense intrigue and action that is up there with the best of them . Amidst some of the most spectacular underwater sea photography on record blooms a story of friends with polar priorities : Jared ( Paul Walker ) and Sam ( Jessica Alba ) live the simple life in the Bahamas , sport diving , looking for lost treasure ships as a hobby ; visiting lawyer friend Bryce ( Scott Caan ) and his just-met current squeeze Amanda ( Ashley Scott ) have dubious pasts and are out for the quick buck no matter the dangers . This quartet spends the first part of the film diving and playing underwater with the glorious sea life until the unexpected discovery of a submerged airplane ( recall the opening sequence ) containing vast amounts of cocaine changes the playing board . Jared and Sam won't deal in drug trafficking while Bryce and Amanda are unable to resist . Once this strident mark is hit the movie becomes a fast paced intrigue of good vs evil , crime , police corruption , all mixed with chase sequences both on land and underwater . Tragedies occur , priorities alter and the polarities among friends are tested . Even if the story of sunken treasure and drug trafficking weren't as well written as they are , this film would be well worth the time spent just watching some of the finest underwater choreography on a stage both fascinating and gorgeous and with a cast of beautiful bodies in synch with the splendor . The cast is good and certainly beyond even the eye-candy appeal of each of the actors . Peter Zuccarini's underwater cinematography deserves Oscar attention ; Shane Hurlbut controls the above water cinematography well . But director John Stockwell is to be commended for the pacing of this edge-of-the-seat story - and that is saying a lot for a film that is close to two hours long ! Yes there are chinks in the mortar of the story and moments where the audience must suspend belief ( just how long can Paul Walker hold his breath anyway ? ) , but in the end this is a film that deserves serious attention from the movie audience . It is better than you would expect ! Grady Harp
Ménage a Trois : Coming of Age Under the Microscope	' Douches froides ' ( ' Cold Showers ' ) is a film by Antony Cordier that has been marketed in a strange way : the projected audience was supposedly the gay audience , but aside from brief frontal nudity in an innocuous gym shower room there is nothing ' gay ' about this movie . Instead COLD SHOWERS is an examination of class , sport , experimentation , and emotional borderlines that are at once fascinating and frustrating . Mickael ( Johan Libereau ) is from a poor working class family - his father Gerard ( Jean-Philippe Ecoffey ) is a boozer taxi cab driver who lost his license as a result of a DUI , and his mother Annie ( Florence Thomassin ) is a cleaning woman in the high school gym : they live on the edge of poverty . Not a great student , Mickael excels in judo and his life is focused on his sport and on his girlfriend Vanessa ( Salome Stevenin ) . One of Mickael's teammates Clement ( Pierre Perrier ) is from a wealthy family : his father Louis Steiner ( Aurelien Recoing ) is confined to a wheelchair and his mother Mathilde ( Claire Nebout ) is a woman of the world and society . Louis decides to sponsor the judo team , buys them outfits , and asks Mickael to work with Clement to perfect his technique and prepare the judo team for a French championship . Mickael and Clement relate well and while Mickael is a winning player , Clement is smarter and understands the intrinsic rules of the game better . An incident occurs that forces Mickael to take the position of a wounded mate and in doing so he must lose 8 kilos to qualify for the championship team . The struggle to lose weight ( his body is already perfect ) places stress on both Mickael and his family and teammates . Mickael and Vanessa include Clement in their camaraderie , a situation which evolves into a ménage a trois as the three have sex in the after hours gym . Vanessa reacts as though this is the greatest physical feeling ever , Clement is smitten , and Mickael has troubling doubts . When the three decide to try it again in a hotel room Mickael is so conflicted that he does not join the other two , only listening to their cavorting in the bathtub feeling inferior to the smarter , wealthier Clement . But on the judo side , the team wins the championship and Mickael's delicate sense of self worth is restored for a moment . It is the manner in which the trio of young adolescents resolves their antics that closes the film . Though the actors are superb and very beautiful to see and hear , the character development is fuzzy and we are left with little understanding or insight as to the each of the key players . The judo action moments are beautifully choreographed and the intimacy scenes are done with taste and fine lighting but with little passion conveyed . Though we want to identify with Mickael and his methods of confronting his coming of age , there just isn't enough character motivation to make that transference entirely successful . This film feels like two movies : a judo team's antics and a class-crossed ménage a trois . Beautiful to watch , but the script could have been more carefully constructed .
A Promising Tale Meanders into the Director's Indulgences	UNDERTOW is a perplexing film , one that seems like it could be a superb atmospheric contemplation of poverty and its consequences in the back roads of the South , but ends in a prolonged ennui that suggests that a growing director doesn't know when excess has been met and indulged . John Munn ( Dermot Mulroney ) lives with his two sons Chris ( Jamie Bell ) and Tim ( Devon Alan ) in mud and squalor in rural Georgia , a place of escape from inquisitive society after the death of his wife . Chris is lonely and curious and is repeatedly arrested for minor crimes while Tim is psychically injured and lives in an unhealthy mental state eating paint , mud , and anything that will make him vomit . John Munn tries valiantly to cope with being a single father of these two problematic boys but clearly needs help . Into this setting arrives Deel , John's ne're-do-well brother with whom he had a rocky childhood who has been recently released form prison for a crime that apparently tangentially involved John . John takes Deel in to provide shelter in exchange for helping him with his pig farm and with his boys , but we soon discover that Deel's true motivation for visiting his long-lost brother is to gain access to gold coins given to John and Deel by their father ( references to the use of gold coins to pay Charon for passage over the river Styx into Hades and the subsequent curse on these coins is explained by John to his boys ) . The crisis of the movie is the conflict and ultimately deadly encounter between Deel and John and when the boys observe the loss of their father , they gather the coins and a backpack and begin their flight to safety . The remainder of the movie is how these two brothers learn to grow up and fend for themselves in the most difficult of circumstances and always under the threat of Deel's discovering their whereabouts . Along the way we meet some interesting if repetitively impoverished folk , each adding a bit of philosophy , both said and unsaid , to the boys ' growth . The ending is Grand Guignol and to reveal it further would be a disservice to the surprise it holds . David Gordon Green is a 30-year-old director who has a penchant for tales of the impoverished South . He understands mood and atmosphere , makes use of freeze frame camera angles poignantly and is able to draw unfettered realistic performances from his actors ( both main characters and bit players ) . He wisely elected to enlist the fine cinematography of Tim Orr , the quasi-appropriate musical score by Phillip Glass , and tries to work with a shaky dialogue by screenwriter Joe Conway based on a story by Lingard Jervey . At this point in his career ( and yes , he is the assigned director for the upcoming ' The Secret Life of Bees ' ) he is a creative artist who needs to watch his own completed films carefully to see where he loses control of the story and allows it to disappear in the mists of bland blathering . There is so much good in his work that surely the services of a brave , outspoken editor will repair his indulgences . The four main actors are all excellent : Mulroney and Lucas have an unkempt , of-the-dirt sensuality that keeps them constantly engaging and each develops a fully realized character from the material they are given . Jamie Bell proves that he can take on tough roles and make them appear naturally simple and Devon Alan is a sensitive purveyor of a damaged boy . If there were just some way to condense this two-hour film down to tolerable proportions , this would be a truly fine film . Be patient with it and you will be observing the work of a director who will probably become an important voice . Grady Harp
A Mismarketed and Mislabeled Film That is Surprisingly Good !	When movie trailers come out months before the release of a film and movie billboards crowd the malls and other places trying to convince the public of what to expect ( read ' how can we guarantee making the most money from the biggest crowd ? ' ) , it is difficult to get motivated to step over the hype and decide for yourself the merits and message of a little movie . SPANGLISH used slapstick approach , beginning with focus on Adam Sandler of the superfluff / toilet mouth ' comedy ' genre , to publicize this little story into a COMEDY . That was enough to keep this viewer out of the theater . But seeing James L . Brooks current opus at home without all the hoopla of the theater crowd resulted in a pleasant discovery : this is a well-written little drama , peppered with some comedy , that addresses a lot of issues about parenting , cross-ethnicity , living your dream vs skimming off the top , having loyalty to the inner self , the desperate need for communication in today's loud world , alcoholism , etc . Not the stuff for slapstick , nor is it treated that way . John Clasky ( Adam Sandler in a straight role that allows him to show substance over pratt falls ) is a successful chef who is able to support his family with a home in Beverly Hills and a summer home at the beach ( obviously Malibu ) . His wife Deborah ( Tea Leoni in a wildly dysfunctional mother role which she handles well ) , in desperation for breathing room to pursue her lackluster life , hires a non-English speaking Latina maid Flor ( Paz Vega ) who has immigrated to the US with her young daughter Cristina ( Shelbie Bruce , a amazingly bilingual young actress ) to make a life for herself after her husband has left her . Deborah's daughter Bernice ( Sarah Steele ) is overweight and the victim of her mother's misconstrued attempts to correct her problem at the expense of acknowledging Bernice's self worth . Though busy with his successful restaurant , John finds time to be a loving father , a husband who is as supportive of his wild wife as is possible , and who gradually finds in the new Flor a gentle , honest , compassionate / passionate human being that seems to be a soul mate . Things progress quickly : Flor learns English via language tapes on TV , Cristina moves in with the family when the move to Malibu occurs , Deborah dotes on the bright , attractive Cristina while ignoring her own daughter , Flor tends to the emotions of Bernice , and finally a marital crisis occurs which places into focus the idiosyncrasies of all members of the extended household ( including Deborah's alcoholic mother - Cloris Leachman , as brilliant as ever ) . The manner in which Brooks brings this chaos to closure does not sell out the way most stories do : there are no pat answers here but altered individual perceptions are suggested and we are given the opportunity to resolve them as we wish . Is this a comedy ? No , though there are many cleverly funny lines and situations . This is a pertinent drama , unfortunately mislabeled in name and in media approach . For this reviewer this is a tender film about family needs and personal goals . The cast is excellent , each member taking risks that prove to be successful . Give it a try !
A Mixed Pot of Stew	STAY is a strange bird of a movie , one that you must be rested and in the mood for to watch , and one that asks that you forget the usual linear storyline and stay alert every minute . Directed by Marc Forster ( Monster Ball , Finding Neverland , and the upcoming The Kite Runner ) and based on a story and screenplay by David Benioff ( Troy , The 25th Hour , and the upcoming The Kite Runner ! ) , STAY is more a mind-bending visual excursion that explores some dark psychological questions dealing with life , death , suicide , occult , and a mélange of all of these . The opening of the film is a twisted visual experience that has to do with a car crashing on a bridge , fire , and a body - all given during the opening credits . We then meet psychiatrist Dr . Sam Foster ( Ewan McGregor ) as he encounters a college student patient Henry Lethem ( Ryan Gosling ) whom he is seeing for his colleague , the emotionally exhausted Dr . Beth Levy ( Janeane Garofalo ) . Hesitant to work with a ' substitute psychiatrist ' Henry eventually tells Sam he is planning to commit suicide that Saturday at midnight , a re-enactment of his painter idol's absurd life . Sam's artist girlfriend Lila ( Naomi Watts ) was herself a suicide attempt rescued by Sam and offers her help in dealing with Sam's patient . Sam also gleans advice from his mentor , the blind Dr Patterson ( Bob Hoskins ) and after numerous attempts to contact his associate Beth for information , Sam strikes out on his own in an attempt to understand Henry before he destroys himself . He looks up Henry's mother ( Kate Burton ) whom Henry says is dead , discovers when Henry meets Dr Patterson that Henry claims Patterson is his father and is also dead . Ultimately Sam engages the services of a mental institution run by Dr Ren ( BD Wong ) and gains the promise that the institution will put a hold on Henry so that he will be unable to commit suicide . In the midst of this race Sam's world begins to crumble , people don't make sense , stories clash , and Sam tumbles around in a state closely resembling madness until the final frames when the entire situation of the film is made clear . Nothing is as it appears when dealing with the thread that separates life and death . The script is clumsy , the camera work is distractingly of kilter , little gimmicks are used to the extreme , and the tiny roles of supporting characters hardly merit the gifted actors such as Hoskins , Burton , and Garofalo . Ryan Gosling is again tossed into a role that is starchy and unidimensional and despite his fine work his character remains aloof . McGregor and Watts do the best they can with the script but end up becoming tropes wandering in from other similar stories . So why give the film score ? Because despite all the defects it does engage the mind and forces the viewer to set aside the general principles of understanding and just release the mind to a crazy ride . That is healthy film making and deserves attention . Grady Harp
Running Toward Happiness : The American Dream Revisited	PURSUIT OF Happiness is a film that despite all its flaws ( repetition of chases , repeated encounters that mirror the last , emotional overload , excessive playing time of two hours , etc ) reinforces some truly important human values : love between a father and son , pushing forward toward success despite all the roadblocks , kindness for the plight of the homeless , and strength of character in the face of hopelessness . Knowing that the story ( by Steve Conrad ) is based on fact , that Chris Gardner really existed to survive these hardships , makes the film even more impactful . Director Gabriele Muccino knows how to aim for the heart and the film is bound to touch all who view it . Chris Gardner ( Will Smith ) is an African American very bright young man married to Linda ( Thandie Newton ) who has a difficult time working double shifts at a thankless job to support the family due to Chris ' inability to sell Bone Density Evaluators that he used the family's life savings to invest in for a future that looks increasingly grim . Chris and Linda and their young son Christopher ( Jaden Christopher Syre Smith ) live next to the poverty line and finally Linda leaves , frustrated , angry and hurt . Chris and his son strike out on their own : the relationship between father and son as enacted by the Smiths is as touching as any on film . Bruised by the lack of success in selling his machines , Chris encounters a happy man who says his secret is working as a stockbroker with Dean Witter in downtown San Francisco . Chris applies for employment , passes an entrance exam and is taken on with the firm - only to discover he is an unpaid intern who must pass a hefty exam and perform at top speed in order to succeed . With no income except from Chris ' continued attempts to see his medical machines poverty embraces the father and son and they end up homeless and hungry . The only things keeping Chris afloat are his love and concern for his son and his intense will to survive and succeed . How this works out is known because of all the PR from the film and from the actual facts of the story . Will Smith and his son Jaden give warmly human performances , giving the camera as much with the silence of their faces as they deliver with lines . Yes , there are many moments when the heartstrings are heavily plucked , but there is no problem defending that in a society too famished for stories of human dignity in the face of tragedy . The large supporting cast is well directed and the production values are excellent . PURSUIT OF Happiness is well worth the journey . Grady Harp
Raw Yet Tender Love Story From the Underbelly of Bangkok	The cover of the DVD for this very fine film is misleading : the photograph of the two leads in a rather quiet and elegant setting is about as far from the content of the cinematic adventure as imaginable . Writer / Director Poj Amon has created a love story that is more from the underbelly of the poor section of Bangkok than it is from the expected physical beauty of that Thai city , and rather than focusing on the ' tourist view ' of Thailand , he instead finds a different kind of beauty molded into a love story from a far different perspective . And it works very well . In the world of Thai organized crime there is a star assassin - Maek ( ( Rattanaballang Tohssawat ) - who kills ' bad people ' to satisfy his bosses but cannot kill ' good people ' . He is the sole support of his mother and younger brother , both of whom suffer from AIDS - the source of their infection is the abusive live-in stepfather . Maek wants to provide a good home for his little family , somewhere away from the slums of Bangkok , so that his little brother will no longer have to ply the hustler role on the streets to help support his ailing mother . Maek is assigned a ' hit ' and in stalking the young lawyer he is supposed to assassinate he finds an attraction to the obviously good , married , handsome Iht ( Chaiwat Thongsaeng ) . When the moment comes to complete his grim duty , Maek cannot kill a ' good man ' and in the setup Maek himself is shot . Iht is compassionate and rescues Maek from the streets , taking him to his shelter to nurse him back to health . The two men bond and eventually submit to their passion . Yet when Maek recovers , he cannot face the truth of his feelings and separates himself from Iht . Iht's wife is suspicious about Iht's distance , stalks him , and witnesses a secret moment of passion between Maek and Iht , and the discovery turns her into a potential assassin herself . Iht is now by himself , unable to regain Maek's commitment until a series of events leads to the ultimate arrest of Maek : from the imposed separation caused by Maek's incarceration , Iht remains faithful to his love . The ending could have been triumphant ( and for moments it is , emotionally ) , but instead Poj Amon opts for tragedy , a writer's decision that makes the film even more powerful . The cast of actors is excellent and the chemistry between the two leads is undiluted by the forces that are meant to separate them . In the end , this is a love story between two classes of people whose discovery of a forbidden love emphasizes some universal truths . It is a well - made , beautifully photographed film ( Tiwa Moeithaisong is the gifted cinematographer ) that deserves a wider audience . Grady Harp
Divorce , Addiction , and Other Obstacles in the Path to Happiness	Matt Mulhern is an actor turned writer / director in this amazingly fine first feature film . If DUANE HOPWOOD is any indication of the storehouse of creative and gently profound films housed in Mulhern's mind , we have a major artist being birthed . Duane Hopwood ( David Schwimmer ) is a loser : despite the fact that he is one of the most loving beings around , he is plagued by the realities of life - working a testy night job as a pit boss in Caesar's Palace in Atlantic City , failing to be present for a wife and two girls he loves but neglects due to his working hours and that has resulted in divorce , alcoholism , and failure to repair - he just can't make his life work . After a DUI arrest in which Duane has inadvertently jeopardized the life of one of his passenger daughters , is ex-wife Linda ( Janeane Garofalo ) is driven to prevent visitation rights to a man she recognizes is in truth a loving father who simply can't cope . Duane lives alone until his casino friend Anthony ( Judah Friedlander ) , a would be stand up comic , asks to share Duane's home . Duane's bad luck follows him even when he is trying to give despicable people a fair break at the casino and hence loses his job . He attempts to date a kind Irish bartender Gina ( Susan Lynch ) but fails that role when he confesses that he still loves his wife . The ultimate blow comes when Linda and her new boyfriend Bob ( John Krasinski ) decide to move to North Carolina , a fact that means Duane will rarely see his beloved daughters . And his life continues to pall-mall despite all the loving hands offered by the good people around him . The story has no beginning and no end . It is a slice of life about an Everyman racked by bad decisions , good at heart but unable to control his propensities , and the effects of addiction , divorce , and loneliness on a kind but bumbling soul . David Schwimmer gives a deeply moving performance , one that is so sensitively rendered that it holds mirrors to us all , making us love him as much as the people around him who stand by helplessly by as he spirals down the hole of self-destructive behavior . Janeane Garofalo likewise steps out of her usual silly chubby mouthy roles and gives us an injured but wholly understandable bruised woman : her acting is the finest she has ever given us . The entire cast ( with some surprise appearances by some fine actors ) is top notch , but in the end the kudos go to Matt Mulhern for offering us one of the best examinations of divorce and modern marriage with an eye that clearly sees both sides of trauma . This is an underrated , superb film that deserves a wide audience . Grady Harp
A Gothic Thriller Delivered with Panache	A Gothic Thriller Delivered with Panache , November 17 , 2005Reviewer : Grady Harp ( Los Angeles , CA United States ) - See all my reviews Writer Ehren Kruger ( ' The Ring ' movies , ' The Brothers Grimm ' ) has supplied Director Iain Softley ( ' Wings of the Dove ' ) with a sound story from which Softley has created a satisfyingly dark film about death and dying and Hoodoo magic in the swampy region of Louisiana . Without resorting to the usual stock gimmicks , THE SKELETON KEY works on many levels to frighten and entertain and it succeeds ! Caroline ( Kate Hudson ) is a beautiful 25-year old whose guilt over her absence from her father's deathbed has driven her to seek work in nursing homes ( the film's opening sequence with Caroline reading to a dying man is elegant and touching and quite timely ) and ultimately to hospice care . Answering an ad in the paper for a hospice nurse takes her to a strange old Southern mansion in which live the Devereauxs - Violet ( Gena Rowlands ) and her bedridden husband Ben ( John Hurt ) . Caroline passes her interview and at the warm insistence of the family lawyer Luke ( Peter Sarsgaard ) she takes the job . Violet is a frightening old lady who entrusts Caroline with a skeleton key which opens the doors of all 30 rooms of the creaky , musty mansion - except for one door in the attic . Noting there are no mirrors in the house , Caroline begins to investigate the place and Ben's seemingly terrified state and discovers the forbidden room contains elements of dark magic . She seeks information from her close friend Jill ( Joy Bryant ) who skeptically informs her that the symbols and paraphernalia Caroline has discovered are factors of Hoodoo - a strange magic whose multi-ethnic beginnings are in New Orleans . Slowly Caroline challenges Violet for information and finding none , seeks the advice of a Hoodoo woman ( Fahnlohnee R . Harris ) for answers . The bizarre dark secrets of the old mansion and the Devereaux couple ultimately come into focus and it is up to Caroline to break some spells . . . . if that is possible . With a cast this fine it would be surprising if the film didn't fly and each of the actors creates a credible creature that involves us from the beginning . Yes , the horror story is accompanied by rain storms and thunder storms that serve to heighten the tension and the pacing by director Softley keeps the audience alert and suspicious and ultimately surprised . This is one of the better thrillers released in some time . Recommended especially to devotees of the thriller genre ! Grady Harp
A Classy Little Art Nouveau Look at Turn of the Century Behavior	UNCONSCIOUS ( Inconscientes ) is a stylish little Spanish film form the minds of writers Dominic Harari and Joaquín Oristrell , a tongue in cheek look at the influence of Sigmund Freud on social behavior at the fin de siecle in Spain . Not only is the story highly entertaining as a comedy , the production values and creative direction by Joaquín Oristrell make this a must-see for lovers of European art films . The story is a bit convoluted , but then the title suggests that in the first place ! If there is a line of continuity it is the effect of Freud as the one who peeped into the privacy of our lives and the strange findings he discovered . Very pregnant Alma ( the always beguiling Leonor Watling ) is missing her psychiatrist husband and engages the aid of her brother-in-law Salvador ( Luis Tosar ) to find him . Alma's sister Olivia ( Núria Prims ) suspects a tryst between Alma and Salvador , adding a bit more mystery to the story . The discoveries made about each of the highly assorted groups of players in the drama are made in the oddest of places - a men's steam room / gym , a transvestite ball ( in which many of the characters ' form the outside world are found to have very special needs ! ) , and in places throughout the picturesque Barcelona . There is no particular resolution to this quasi-plot : the joy is in the telling of the story , and that is a total pleasure to watch . The very large cast is uniformly exceptional and the creative aspects of the shifting of the various components of this storybook tale are as fine as have been seen in recent cinema . This is comedy border but not becoming slapstick and it is served up delectably ! In Spanish and German with English subtitles . Grady Harp , November 07
Tackling a Controversial Subject in Perilous Times - Successfully !	This taut and important film CHASING FREEDOM was apparently a made for television film in 2004 . It is a shame it never made it into the theaters as it is a searing document about the problems of victims from foreign countries seeking asylum in the United States . The script by Barbara Samuels is a brave indictment against the Taliban's activities in Afghanistan as well as a penetrating examination of US bureaucratic bungling in dealing with those who get caught up in the quagmire of red tape in trying to find an escape hatch from their homeland cruelty . It is an honest look at a problem , unbiased , where none of the parties are blameless . A member of a high profile New York law firm , Libby ( Juliette Lewis ) is told by her boss that despite her overtaxed workload as a securities lawyer she must by contract take on some pro bono work ( as much to make her boss look good as to keep a law firm's reputation spotless ) . Libby begrudgingly takes on a pro bono case in the department closest to her office - the INS where kind and desperate Eric ( Brian Markinson ) pleads with her to represent a woman seeking asylum . Libby has a negative attitude toward the process , as much because she knows nothing about asylum cases in law as the fact that she is doing this under duress . Eric introduces her to her client Meena ( Layla Alizada ) who has fled Afghanistan to escape death because she dared to teach children in Kabul despite the Taliban's condemnation of schools . Gradually the harden Libby discovers the life story of Meena and softens to her cause , devoting herself to achieving the impossible - obtaining asylum for a woman who has no proof of identity and is ' detained ' in a brusque INS center like a prisoner . Though Meena arrived in the US in 2000 , by the time her case is extended it is 2001 - and has happened , an incident that placed Afghanistan in a bad light . The manner in which Libby works with Meena to gain her flight to freedom is a well-paced , gripping , startling tale - and this is based on a true story . Juliette Lewis again demonstrates the scope of her talent by convincingly transforming the hard , workaholic lawyer into the compassionate believer in human rights and she is able to make this character development with being cloying or stereotyped . It is a fine performance in a role not of the usual Lewis type . Equally excellent is Layla Alizada , wholly believable as a woman who has endured atrocities only to enter a land that seems cold to her plea for asylum . The two actresses make a fine team . The remainder of the cast is superb and the direction by Don McBrearty is on target . There is a hauntingly beautiful music score by Jonathan Goldsmith the weaves Middle Eastern and Western music into a lush , additive and atmospheric score . This film deserves attention , especially today when our borders are even more blockaded . It is wise to remember the individuals caught up in the problem of seeking asylum . Grady Harp
Old Cops Disenchanted with the Law	The trail of good cop / bad cop films grows longer as does the fascination with Serial Killers ( witness the success of the excellent television series DEXTER where killing of ' people who deserve to die ' is condoned ) . RIGHTEOUS KILL is a good story with problems : the script is wrinkled with aphorisms , the direction allows the dialogue to overlap so often that subtitles are required to keep the viewer alert as to what is happening , and the music score too often drowns out what could be heard of the actors ' voices . But at the core of this much-maligned film is a tour de force for two aging actors ( actually three ) in Robert De Niro , Al Pacino , and Brian Dennehy . Jon Avnet works with crusty lighting effects and photography to create a sense of tired , aging , worn out detectives who show us a side of law enforcement we'd rather not see . Turk ( Robert De Niro ) is seen in the opening in a videotaped monologue about how he came to kill 14 people while in the line of duty . His partner is Rooster ( Al Pacino ) and the two of them run their mode of law enforcement in their own style : even their boss Lieutenant Higgis ( Brian Dennehy ) gives them free reign . An event occurs which triggers the concept of a serial killer whose murders of ' worthless street trash ' victims who are tied to crimes for which they escape punishment . Turk's fellow detective ( an S & M girlfriend ) Karen ( Carla Gugino ) becomes suspicious as do young detectives Perez ( Leguizamo ) and Riley ( Donnie Wahlberg ) - the idea of the perpetrator being a cop drives the ' honest cops ' to extremes . The twist at the ending could have had more impact with a better script ( the work of Russell Gewirtz ) , but the interplay between De Niro and Pacino makes the entire film and ending well worth watching . Great movie ? No , but given the flaws and the overexposure of the theme the ' old guys ' carry it off and provide a riveting , fast paced film worth the attention of more viewers . Grady Harp
A Visually and Musically Beautiful Romp Through Venice	Director Lasse Hallstrom admits in a bonus feature on this DVD that he fell in love with Venice , that this is the first film to be filmed entirely in that magnificent city , and that he elected to play Serenissima as the main character . And that is clearly the best part of this adaptation of the life of the infamous womanizer Casanova . The film sparkles , glows , and reeks of atmosphere , gratefully hiding the fact that the script is a mediocre mishmash of history and purged legend . Casanova is played by Heath Ledger and while it must be said that he does a fine job of creating the character he is given to play , this Casanova is a rather bland , skinny , lustless ordinary man , not one that would make a city full of ladies swoon for his ardor . Though we see a few very tame conquests in the first minutes of the film , this Casanova is pictured as a grown boy , pining for his harlot mother who left him as a child , and a man who really longs to discover the love of his life and settle down . He encounters a true feminist in Francesca Bruni ( Sienna Miller ) who is disguising her considerable pro-feminist writing talents as one Guardi . But alas , Francesca is betrothed to the Lard King of Genoa , Paprizzio ( Oliver Platt ) and Casanova becomes engaged to a sexually frustrated Victoria ( Natalie Dormer ) who is in turn desired by Francesca's nerdy virgin brother Giovanni ( Charlie Cox ) . To further complicate matters Casanova is pursued by the Inquisition in the form of Bishop Pucci ( Jeremy Irons ) and is tried and convicted of ribald acts with nuns , sentenced to hang etc etc etc . Paprizzio arrives from Genoa as Carnivale is beginning , and though intended for Francesca , he is more attracted to Francesca's widowed mother Andrea ( Lena Olin ) . There are endless scenes of mistaken identities abetted by the wearing of masks at Carnivale and the bits and pieces of all the intrigues fall together in a humorous and entertaining fantasy fashion . Venice is splendid as the star , especially as captured by cinematographer Oliver Stapleton and the story romps along to a glorious musical score by the very fine Alexandre Desplat with a lot of help from Albinoni , Corelli , Handel , Soler , Paisiello , Rameau and Vivaldi ! This is hardly a raucous picture one would expect about the wiles of the legendary Casanova , but once you accept the fact that the story has been cleaned up a lot it comes across as fleetingly great fun . The stunningly costumed cast is consistently first rate , with Oliver Platt once again demonstrating that he can play almost any role he is given to perfection ! This is a fun movie and a great travelogue for those of us addicted to the beauties of Venice ! Grady Harp
A Creative Little Film That Tackles Philosophical Issues of Love and Marriage	' Sexo por compasión ' ( COMPASSIONATE SEX ) is a rare little film created in 2000 by Spanish director and writer Laura Mañá that dares to address controversial issues of marital fidelity , the ' oldest profession in the world ' , the impotence of a Catholic priest in holding his community together , and the irresistible importance of physical discourse in mending misconceptions and misunderstandings . Quite a challenge taking on all of these topics , but Laura Mañá has the skills to pull it off with the use of ' magical realism ' and alluring cinematic knowledge and techniques . The final product is a joy ! The setting is a small village ( either in Spain or Mexico , we are not told exactly ) on the verge of dying due to the bland boredom and blanket sadness of the town folk , the lack of children being born and in general due to a languorous malaise . The film is shot not in black and white but varying shades of gray . Dolores ( Elisabeth Margoni ) is an overweight childless woman obsessed with doing good deeds for others , a fact that drives her husband Manolo ( José Sancho ) berserk , threatening that if Dolores is unable to come up with an act that demands his forgiveness he will abandon her . Dolores seeks advice from the village priest ( Juan Carlos Colombo ) in confessional , but the haughty padre is angered by the fact that Dolores daily visits the confessional with nothing to confess . He tells her to go out and sin and then he will be able to hear her confession ! Manolo leaves and the devastated Dolores is encouraged to move into the tavern owned by Floren ( Mariola Fuentes ) and with the loving advice of her friends she hears that the town is dying because the married couples are depressed . The sensitive Dolores hears from both the men and the women and under the pseudonym of Lolita , she invites the husbands to her new bed for free advice , consensual sex and enrichment . Lolita has discovered the source of the town's sadness and soon has slept with every man and keeps her free nurturing going while the women of the village marvel at how their husbands have changed for the better . At this point the town becomes alive , lovely , flowers grow , etc and the film is now in color . Seeing the changes that have occurred drives the priest to build a cross and perform a ritual crucifixion ! The women find Manolo and tell him how the town has changed and why - and the fact that all of the villagers consider Dolores / Lolita a saint . Manolo returns , is enraged , gathers the men together to convince them his wife is a prostitute and the town's life and joy return to the gray of black and white film . The women of the village are convinced that Manolo must be informed as to the sacrifice Lolita has been making and in order to do so they visit Manolo's humble house and line up for a toss in the hay with Manolo : after only several of the many women exit the house with smiles and gleams of physical satisfaction , Manolo weakly emerges admitting that such a process is indeed a sacrifice ! How the village manages this mutual acceptance of Dolores and Manolo and incorporates the newfound ' therapy ' into their lives constitutes the warmly humorous ending . The large cast of unknown actors is splendid . There are many cameos ( Leocadia played by Leticia Huijara is a zany old lady who insists on photographing herself and the events of the village on a daily basis ! , etc ) and Laura Mañá handles the direction of this potentially difficult story with amazing finesse . We can only hope she continues to create other films as unique and satisfying as SEXO POR COMPASION ! Grady Harp
A Tender Story of Women , Love , and Cultural Bindings	Alice Wu has written and directed this absolutely charming little story about love in various permutations with such grace and delicacy that it transcends the various genre categories into which it could fall ( lesbian movie , Chinese cultural stringencies on contemporary life , December / May affairs ) and becomes a movie for all audiences . From the opening credits through to the end credits she frames her simple / complex stories with light humor , grace , and warmth . Originally a designer of computer software for Microsoft , Wu changed her career after winning a prize for her screenplay ' Saving Face ' which is based on her own coming out story as a gay woman . This is her first film ! She is a talent to watch ! Wilhemina ( Michelle Krusiec ) is a lesbian surgical resident in New York City whose widow mother Ma ( Joan Chen ) appears at her door , pregnant at age 48 by a man whose name she will not disclose . Ma's parents ( Wil's grandparents ) disown Ma for staining their proud cultural standing in the community of Flushing , NY . Ma redecorates Wil's drab apartment and proceeds to play matchmaker to find Wil a husband . Wil meets Vivian ( Lynn Chen ) , a ballet dancer struggling with approaching fame in classical ballet while longing for a more expressive role in modern dance , and they fall into a fine romance . Wil turns the tables on Ma as a matchmaker , seeing that the only way to gain her freedom is for Ma to marry a man who will support her and raise her illegitimate child - and free Wil to embrace her own life . Stressors abound : Vivian is offered a prime job with the Paris Opera Ballet which would necessitate her move away from Wil ; Grandma dies making Ma and Wil more supportive of Grandpa ; Wil ' comes out ' to her homophobic Ma ; Vivian's father ( who happens to be Wil's boss at the hospital ) pleas with Wil to support Vivian's career move to Paris . In an attempt to settle all matters Ma consents to marry a good man but one whom she doesn't love . At the thirteenth hour Wil disrupts the wedding , pleading with her Ma to be with the man she love - the surprise father of her unborn child - and all things begin to fall in place . The cast is homogenously fine and Joan Chen is exceptional ! She is a fine , subtle actress who prevents Ma from falling into any number of stereotypes and instead produces a challenged woman we all want to love . But in the end the kudos go to Alice Wu for the strength of her screenplay and her masterful direction of her fine cast . This is not a GREAT movie cinematically speaking , but it is a warm , entertaining , honest , touching film that certainly deserves a lot of attention . Grady Harp
Boyfriends and Boy Friends	Co-writers / directors Tom Hunsinger and Neil Hunter conjured this little Indie film in 1996 , an examination of relationships among seven gay men that not only impresses as a non-exploitive , honest sociologic study of life in the 90s in England , it also is a film that is a healthy mix of humor and tenderness that stands up well more than ten years later . Three couples of varying endurance gather for a weekend holiday to celebrate a birthday : Paul ( James Dreyfus , remembered as Hugh Grant's ditsy travel book shop worker in NOTTING HILL ) has been with Ben ( Mark Sands ) for five years but their relationship is rocky because of Paul's wandering eye for a lad he met at the funeral of his brother Mark ; Matt ( Michael Urwin ) is celebrating his three month steady relationship with Owen ( Andrew Abelson ) though Owen already has the itch to move on ; Will ( David Coffey ) brings his latest one-night stand twinkie Adam ( Darren Petrucci ) , knowing that his chances of retaining the youth's interest are less than favorable . Into the mix comes James ( Michael McGrath ) , the ex-lover of the recently departed Mark whose arrival and introduction to the group occurs in the form of a tryst in the woods with Owen . Each of the paired men face confrontations and face honesty about their pasts - recent and distant - and it is through the weekend of bed swapping that each man finds his own real needs . And the results vary from happy reunions to factual realities of choices made . The cast is a mixture of seasoned professional actors and newcomers who have not made subsequent films . There is a ring of honesty in the portrayals and the creators have opted to study compatibilities based on personality traits and needs as opposed to filling the story with the requisite soap opera subplots that tend to dampen the effect of these studies of groups and their lives . It is not a great film , but is an honest little quiet movie with particularly good performances from James Dreyfus and Andrew Abelson . Worth watching , even in 2007 ! Grady Harp
The Continuing Mystery of Argentina's ' Desaparecidos '	CAUTIVA ( ' Captive ' ) is a very effective film by young writer / director Gaston Biraben who has taken to task the impact of Argentina's ' Dirty War ' of the late 1970s and succeeds in making a very personal story out of the horror of the ' desaparecidos ' tragedy that stole from Argentina some of its brightest minds - and ' reassigned ' the children of these ' disappeared ones ' who were born in the prisons to political friends of the dictatorship . While the concept is gruesome as history and as content , Biraben manages to recreate that terrifying period of time in terms of the present . This retrospective study makes a huge impact . Cristina Quadri ( the deeply impressive Bárbara Lombardo ) lives with her parents in Buenos Aires , attending a Catholic girls ' school , seemingly a happy young teenager . One regular day she is called to the principal's office and told she must visit a judge , a frightening concept for a young girl who is forced to go without informing her parents . The judge informs her that she is not ' Cristina Quadri ' but instead ' Sofía Lombardi ' , the daughter of a couple who ' disappeared ' in 1978 as political prisoners . A recent blood test Cristina / Sofia thought was a follow-up for a post-op check was actually a test to match her blood with that of the newly discovered true parents ' family . Cristina , stunned by her lack of true identity , confronts her ' adopted parents ' and struggles with the officials who insist she be returned to her blood relatives . Cristina becomes close to another ' adopted ' girl and the two explore their roots , finding that they were born in prisons and then given to police officials to be placed in homes . The transition from adopted to blood family is the path the film explores : despite the comforts of present life the girls must know their origins to fully realize their identities . The cast is uniformly strong , the concept of the film works well as Biraben snaps us back and forth between the World Cup Soccer Game in Buenos Aires in 1978 that contrasts so gravely with the concurrent underground disappearance of the intellects of the country , and the performance by Lombardo holds the credibility of the story well . There is a fine music score by José Luis Castiñeira de Dios that combines a suite for cello and piano with elements from Mozart's Requiem very effectively . This film has been awarded many prizes since its appearance in 2003 : the prizes are justly deserved . Highly recommended viewing . Grady Harp
The Dirty Little Secret of International Sex Slave Trade : A Wake-up Call	Based on an article written by Peter Landesman , who also wrote the story and co-wrote the screenplay with Jose Rivera ( ' The Motorcycle Diaries ' ) , TRADE literally forces us to experience the cruel , vicious international market for sex slaves . It is brutally captured on film by director Marco Kreuzpaintner ( ' Summer Storm ' ) in a manner that spares nothing to unveil the atrocities created by the many people form all countries who ply this trade . It is a tough film to watch , but it is also an important film to see : the public MUST be made aware of this criminal activity that robs the lives of children and adults around the globe . The setting is Mexico City and in the poor sector lives a fatherless family supported by the oldest son Jorge ( Cesar Ramos ) whose ' occupation ' is petty crime that allows him to bring in money for his mother and his beloved sister Adriana ( Paulina Gaitan ) . We see the abduction of a beautiful young Polish girl Weronica ( Alicja Bachleda-Curus ) in the Russian sector of the city . Soon after Adriana , trying out her newest bicycle gift from Jorge , is likewise abducted . The girls ( and boys ) are kept in filthy apartments awaiting border crossings into the US where they will be shipped to New Jersey for sale after being advertised for auction on the Internet . Jorge discovers the absence of his sister , traces her to the Russian sector where he sees the filth in which the victims are kept , but where he also encounters a Texas policeman Ray Sheridan ( Kevin Kline ) who is continuing his years long search for his daughter . The two ' meet ' and join in the chase for the lost girls . And it is the manner in which Jorge and Ray gradually become friends and the clever way in which they cooperate that forms the rest of the story . Yes , the film is overlong and borders a bit too closely on soap opera techniques , but the acting is so committed and the story is news so important that any flaw in the film can be forgiven because it opens the door to a crime that is all too unfamiliar to most citizens . It is a true story and therein lies the terror . It should be seen . Grady Harp
A Meditation on Roots	While we as a country are discovering / acknowledging the struggles of the different sects within the Middle East , tribal differences that are longstanding and divisive and painful , along comes another sensitive story about Native Americans in this country and how the scars of past and ongoing abuses of our ' reservation resolution ' have affected the original peoples of this land . Sherman Alexie , a fine poet and novelist , has transformed his written works into a film that showers the viewer with insights into a problem about which few are cognizant - intratribal differences that provide schisms within the only root that binds . Seymour Poltakin ( the very talented Evan Adams ) is a famous poet who happens to be both Native American and gay . He is called back to his Reservation in Spokane , Washington for the funeral of his childhood friend Mouse ( Swil Kanim ) only to confront all of the reasons he has left the Reservation for the ' white man's world ' where he has found both financial and emotional success . Seymour's best friend Aristotle ( Gene Tagaban ) had originally left the Reservation to go to college with Seymour , but quickly soured to the prejudiced outside world and returned to his Reservation and to an unfortunate life of alcoholism and drug abuse . The bulk of the storyline revolves around how these two once devoted friends parted ways , the philosophies of each are explored , and though Seymour finds moments of love in his home space , he is still content to return to his white man lover and his life he has chosen . There are many very tender and moving moments in this film : when Seymour is in conversation with Agnes ( Michelle St . John ) and when Agnes intones the Indian chants and songs at the funeral ; Seymour's dialogues with his lover ; scenes of quiet while Aristotle abuses himself with drugs ; the weaving in and out of the beautiful dancing that flows through the film . The problem with the movie is the disparity of approaches in telling the story : an interview situation between Rebecca Carroll and Evan Adams is well written but breaks the mood of the poetic form of the story . The film is obviously low budget and in this case , for this viewer , the rough hand-held camera technique adds a quality of reality to what we are watching . The overall effect at the end of the film is a pang of pain in the heart having witnessed the generations of ' isolation ' and the segregation of the Native Americans into spaces both geographical and sociological that have undermined a tremendously valuable asset to our history . That role of shame is one that will never leave us , and it is a gift that artists like Sherman Alexie can bring this to the public's attention . Recommended . Grady Harp
And now that we all know . . . . .	Al Gore created the film AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH as an important step to alert the global audience to the threat of global warming that is all too terrifying . Some may dismiss this well-made documentary as Gore's reaction to the election debacle that placed our current ' President ' in an undeserved office , but that is just another true piece of this alerting film . Gore is the preacher / prophet here and he comes off as an admirable , warm , human , wise teacher whose mission is to bring us all into action . The facts are now clear , thanks in many ways to both Gore's book and film . Gore takes the role of professor here and demonstrates by graphs and charts and then terrifyingly real photographic comparative images just how endangered our planet really is . This may not be a film that allows us to put our heads on restful pillows at night , but then that is the purpose . Without threats , without shouting from the pulpit , Gore merely relays the facts , negates the skeptics , and finally extends his hand to show each of us how we can participate in change , be that change communicating with our government officials to take immediate action or how to convert our own walking atmosphere into a healing place . Art has always opened the windows of light on society's foibles . AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH does just that and now that the DVD is out perhaps even broader coverage of this disastrous situation will find its way into the homes of everyone . We are all involved in the warming of the globe : we are all responsible and must excite change . Grady Harp
Time and ' Social Progress ' Make this Film Maintain it Poignancy	John Grisham's powerful novel about persistent racial conflict in the South was transformed ten years ago into a gripping film by Joel Schumacher with the screenplay adaptation by Akiva Goldsman . The reporting of an act of violence by an African American father whose daughter had been kidnapped , brutally beaten , raped , and further debased brings together a rookie lawyer whose involvement with the father during the prolonged trial results in a suggestion that there may be hope for harmony , even on a small scale , if the racial lines can be erased or even blurred a bit . Matthew McConaughey is the rookie white lawyer , Ashley Judd his wife , Samuel Jackson the father , Sandra Bullock the bright wannabe lawyer who assists McConaughey , Kevin Spacey the brilliant but slimy lawyer opposing McConaughey , Oliver Platt as McConaughey's sidekick , Donald Sutherland as the disbarred drunk of a lawyer who cleans up his act to help McConaughey find the truth justice knows , Patrick McGoohan as the implacable judge , and Kiefer Sutherland as the KKK redneck representing all the evil of the little southern town . It is a fine cast and Schumacher moves them naturally between their lives in the town and the interior of the courtroom with great facility . Perhaps this will never be considered as one of the ' Great Movies ' , but is certainly pleads the case for understanding and for putting an end to the evils of racial bias . Recommended . Grady Harp
Every little movement has a meaning all its own . . . .	SAINT RALPH is a little jewel of a film . Stories about kids who gain faith through acts of courage are usually tainted with saccharine scripts , but with the wise use of presenting a well-rounded , multidimensional character as the hero of this story , writer / director Michael McGowan succeeds in a touching tale that is so based on real behavioral patterns of young teens that it becomes simply an inspiring and entertaining movie . Ralph ( Adam Butcher ) is 14 , his father died a war hero , and his mother is hospitalized for a terminal illness . Ralph is in Catholic School run by the stern disciplinarian Father Fitzpatrick ( Gordon Pinsent ) who , understanding that Ralph has a free spirit and a propensity for getting into trouble , spies on him . Ralph is repeatedly ' punished ' for his transgressions , but when he inadvertently has a hilarious swimming pool / voyeuristic experience , he is threatened with expulsion unless he joins the school's Cross Country team run by the kindly Father Hibbert ( Campbell Scott ) . Ralph's ' naughty nature ' is balanced by his complete devotion to his hospitalized mother ( Shauna MacDonald ) whom he visits daily : she is all he has . His mother's nurse ( Jennifer Tilly ) is compassionate and shares with Ralph that as his mother slips into coma that the only thing that will save her is a miracle . Simultaneously Ralph's coach ( Father Hibbert ) jests that the only way any of the team would win the Boston Marathon would be a miracle . The dots connect ; Ralph trains , and through faith and commitment finds himself crossing the finish line of the Marathon ! The manner in which McGowan ends the story is part of what makes this film unique . Just as he allows Ralph to be a testy kid who continues to have hilarious episodes right up to the end of the story , he doesn't let the film end in bathos . He makes every action and deed that occur in Ralph's journey combine to drive toward the final meaning . So here is a gentle comedy with a heart , one that is touching while it is a little racy , full of faith while it tests rationality . The cast is superb and seem committed under McGowan's wise direction to find just the right level of realism , making us root strongly for a kid with impossible challenges . Recommended . Grady Harp
An Early Bardem Film	HUEVOS DE ORO ( Golden Balls ) is a 1993 film by writer / director JJ Bigas Luna ( best known for his ' Jamon , Jamon ' and ' Son de Mar ' ) that suffers from defective promo / packaging . The cover of the DVD ( probably released only of late because of Javier Bardem's growing popularity in this country ) suggests an edgy comedy : Bardem in a gold suit is seen grasping his crotch ! Nothing could be more misrepresenting as this is a drama of lust , greed , power , and ruthlessness . Get past the promo and settle in for a drama and the result is not bad . Benito Gonzalez ( Javier Bardem ) is a construction worker with a dream : he is obsessed with power of building and owning the tallest building in Barcelona and of becoming the richest man who can own gold Rolex watches and have all the women he wants . He is a lustful lover , first with his best friend Mosca's ( Francesco Dominedo ) sister Rita ( Elisa Tovati ) whose body and scent are a passion for him . Yet he dreams of his tallest building ( the possibility of his achieving this is not unlike the ease of getting an erection ! ) and he focuses his life on his greed . His co-worker Miguel ( Alessandro Gassman ) is to help him fulfill his dream , but when he discovers Miguel is sleeping with Rita he is incensed and leaves his lowly construction job for the promise of riches in Barcelona . Through stepping on people , using devious means to get backing and money for his ' Gonzalez Tower ' , Benito gradually destroys all of those who want to help him - his new girl Claudia ( Maribel Verdu ) with whom he has another sexual obsession then talks into sleeping with one of his money source prospects , the banker ( Albert Vidal ) who has slept with Claudia becomes his father-in-law when for monetary gain Benito marries daughter Marta ( Maria de Medeiros ) , a wily but wealthy film producer ' Gil with the Chickpeas ' ( Ángel de Andrés López ) , and more . By breaking the law , abusing his ' friends ' , and lying in general Benito's building is nearly completed . But a series of tragedies involving Mosca's accidental death , and an auto accident with many permutations for Benito , and the ultimate loss of funding result in Benito's multiple losses of his dreams , betrayals of his pitiful sex life ( this time a lowly gardener Bob ( Benicio Del Toro ) steals his paramour ) leave Benito destroyed . The story is actually on the order of a Greek tragedy - but sadly without the impact . Though Javier Bardem is a brilliant actor and is in the company of other exceptional actors , the script by JJ Bigas Luna is weak , paying little attention to character motivation and emphasizing instead gross caricatures . But if the film is taken as a recreation of the driving , greedy , power obsession of the 1980s then the message makes its impact . And it is always good to see early work by such actors as Bardem , Del Toro , and Verdu ! Grady Harp
A Film That Finds The Gaping Hole In Which Unbalanced People Live	Lodge H . Kerrigan is a force in film who demands our attention . The fact that Steven Soderbergh produced this small , low budget work should indicate the quality of endorsement a fine filmmaker has in a relatively unknown writer and director . Essentially a one-man drama , the ' story ' is more an autopsy on the mind of a disturbed 36-year-old man William Keane ( Damian Lewis ) who lives in the streets and underground of New York , whispering to himself the data of a child snatching incident ' last September ' : we slowly get the idea that Keane's 7 year old daughter Sophie disappeared at station 8 at 4 : 30 PM . Keane lives his life searching for his daughter , watching , ' being watched ' , and in general appearing like a mentally challenged man on desperate treadmill . Keane lives in a rent by night hotel and at one point overhears a young woman Lynn ( Amy Ryan ) arguing with the deskman about her rent : she is accompanied by a seven year old child Kira ( Abigail Breslin ) and Keane follows them to their room and genuinely offers Lynn $200 . ' to help them out ' . Wary at first , Lynn accepts the money , eventually invites Keane to her apartment for shared take-out supper , and Keane warmly relates to both Lynn and Kira . At one point Lynn asks Keane to watch Kira for an afternoon and Keane and Kira enjoy each other's company in what results in an extended time due to Lynn's unexpected absence ( she has been visiting her estranged husband arranging for them to reunite ) . Lynn finally returns and thanks Keane for his kindness and informs him that the two are departing the next day to re-join her husband . Keane asks for one last goodbye to Kira , a child he has grown love and who is the one who brings him as close to sanity as any person has been able . It is the manner in which Keane and Kira spend that last goodbye that forms the suspenseful ending to the film . Some reviewers feel that not much happens in this story and I suppose that linearly speaking , not much does . But the spectrum of intensely difficult psychological journey with which we accompany Keane is extraordinary . Damian Lewis carries this film with a breathlessly credible performance of a man lost in the no man's land of mental deterioration , drugs , and alcohol . Thankfully Kerrigan never force-feeds us Keane's background except for a brief moment in which Keane recounts the dates of his birth and sadly unremarkable events of his life . The rest is left to the viewer to mold from the pitiful fragments Keane dispenses through his actions and reactions . The supporting cast is strong and the technical aspects of the film are well captured . This film may be too tough for most viewers who expect more information in a story , but for those brave enough to enter the mind of a mentally disturbed man and view the world through his perceptions and fears and needs , so brilliantly enacted by Damian Lewis , this film will stay in memory . Grady Harp
A Polished Film Worth Watching	Something there is that the British understand about drawing room comedies that results in taking subjects that may prove a bit shaky in others ' hands , but in the British manner it all seems so right . Writer / director Ol Parker's IMAGINE YOU & ME is not a novel idea - love triangles that begin at the wedding of a couple - but this one has a bit of a twist in that the disruptive triangle results form the ' love at first sight ' between the florist in charge of the wedding and the bride ! Rachel ( Piper Perabo - a very fine American actress in this English cast ) plays the bride to Matthew Goode's Heck and the florist Luce is wonderfully the role of Lena Headey . The unplanned glance between the two women happens on the way to the altar and subsequently both women feel such profound and warm infatuation with each other that they seek one another's company , completely open-eyed . The manner in which this happens involves Heck , Heck's best man Cooper ( Darren Boyd ) , and Rachel's parents Celia Imrie and Anthony Head - as well as Rachel's wise little sister H ( Boo Jackson ) . The triumph of sense over sensibility is predictable but the manner in which the writing and the superb acting enhance a fairly obvious ending is what makes this movie such a delight . The actors are all attractive and endearing and carry the story and the social lessons well . It may be lightweight , but it is a complete pleasure to watch . Grady Harp
A Fine Documentary Cluttered with Peripheral Distractions	IN MY COUNTRY ( COUNTRY OF MY SKULL ) , based on a book by Antjie Krog about South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission ( TRC ) of 1996 set in the aftermath of Apartheid , has been altered by screenwriter Ann Peacock and director John Boorman who have elected to ' dramatize ' that event by fleshing out ' committed journalists ' on both sides of the color fence : South Afrikaner Anna Malan ( Juliette Binoche ) and American hothead Langston Whitfield ( Samuel L . Jackson ) . The dichotomy of the white / black reconciliation is thus reversed ; Anna is white defending the South African blacks while Langston is black firing his vitriol against the white South Afrikaners . The story is immensely important to tell : 21 , 800 blacks were tortured and killed in the final days of Apartheid , but in the wisdom of South African philosophy the perpetrators are given amnesty if they confront their crimes and show remorse . This noble morality is the single most touching aspect of this story . During the Commission hearings all reporters hear the grief of the victims ' families and are stunned . Though initially hostile to each other , Anna and Langston gradually are able to listen to each other's perspectives and become romantically involved ( both are married with children ) and as the film ends the affair is ended in keeping with the example of the truth the TRC has established . In an attempt to make this reality into a movie the impact is dulled by the Hollywoodesque treatment . Yes , Binoche and Jackson are fine actors ( as is Menzi Ngubane who plays a wholly lovable South African instigator ) , but the melodrama they are forced to enact is superficial and does not add to the otherwise powerful message of this film . This is a movie that deserves the attention of a wide audience . Just pay more attention to the facts than to the soupy frosting under which it plays . Grady Harp
Look Around . . .	While dramas reenacting the devastation of 911 abound , only a few select films appear to be dealing with the personal , long-term effects of that day of doom . REIGN OVER ME , with a brilliant script by Mike Bender ( who also directs and acts in the film ) , reaches into the arena of emotional states that continue to filter through the detritus of that event , states that have altered many minds permanently and states that have provided pathways for growing into a more profound appreciation for life and the privilege of living . Successful dentist Alan Johnson ( Don Cheadle ) and his beautiful wife Janeane ( Jada Pinkett Smith ) live luxuriously well from the income Alan makes tending to the vanity of the wealthy New Yorkers : their lives seem perfect but there is a static vibration that pleads for change . Alan happens to see his old college and dental school roommate Charlie Fineman ( Adam Sandler ) , disheveled and skirting around the streets on a motorized scooter . Charlie doesn't recognize Alan : Charlie doesn't recognize anything or anyone from his past as his mind has been jumbled by the unrepaired grief over the loss of his wife and three daughters in one of the airplanes that crashed in 911 disaster . The rigid but needy Alan succeeds in making contact with Charlie , offering solace and help and companionship to his old friend , and through a series of incidents ( some hilarious , others tragic ) the two men find a common Gilead - Charlie faces his loss and begins to cope and Alan is set free from his self inflicted cage in which he lives . Binder writes well and introduces enough interesting sidebar characters through the course of the film to make the statement about change and healing credible . The fine cast includes Liv Tyler as a psychiatrist , Saffron Burrows as a stalking patient whose recovery from a divorce plays significantly in the interaction between Alan and Charlie , Robert Klein and Melinda Dillon play the parents of Charlie's deceased wife , Mike Binder is Charlie's accountant , and Donald Sutherland offers a brief but sophisticated cameo as a judge . The quality of acting is first rate and even Adam Sandler manages to overcome his own well-worn bag of schlocky tricks to bring the sad Charlie to life . Food for thought , here , and worth watching , if only to see how personal 911 is to be remembered . Grady Harp
A Family Finding Itself	Ethan Canin is one of our more important authors ( ' America , America ' , ' Emperor of the Air ' , ' The Palace Thief ' which became the film ' The Emperor's Club ' ) and to discover a screenplay / story by him is a treat . BEAUTIFUL OHIO is a fascinating little film directed by Chad Lowe about an apparently close knit family that knows really very little about each other : it is Canin's purpose to unravel the stories of ' ordinary people confronting aspects of themselves they'd rather not see . ' Behind each member's delusions and hopes to ultimately reach the mid-ground of recognition of just how special is each member is where this very tender story travels . Simon Messerman ( William Hurt ) is an insurance salesman who happens to read voraciously and speaks in quotations of famous writers and thinkers . His wife Judith ( Rita Wilson ) is equally bright , quotes as often as William , but adds a flavor of correcting people's grammar and living in a world of her beloved composers ( Chopin , Schumann , Mozart , etc ) . They have two sons - Clive ( David Call ) is a long-haired math genius who despite his gifts spends his time playing loud hard rock music and speaking in a language all his own , and William ( Brett Davern ) who is devoted to his more intelligent brother but longs for a sense of normalcy in a family that tends to fragment at odd times . Clive's best friend and the only person who understands his special language is Elliot ( Hale Appleman ) : the two of them essentially keep to themselves and smoke pot while they are not entertaining the ' homeless ' Sandra ( Michelle Trachtenberg ) . Sandra chooses to live in the basement of the Messerman house to avoid coping with her own abusive parents . The four youngsters are a team of sorts , thought the interrelationship roles each plays is not at first apparent . The Messermans brag about Clive's constant triumphs at math contests , entertain their neighbors the Cubanos ( Matt Servitto and Julianna Marguiles ) , and fill their lives with attending math meets , basically ignoring the personalities of their two boys . William longs for acceptance and understanding by his parents : Clive lives in his own world . William is driven to discover the meaning of Clive's strange language and eventually finds clues that lead to the secrets he'd rather not know . A situation occurs that stuns the family , and the story jumps forward to the resolving aftermath of that discovery . For a bare bones budget film the story is well told and is a compelling one . Ethan Canin reads better on the page than his words convey through the mouths of actors , and at times the result is pretentious dialogue . But the cast is superb and the ending is one that makes the audience stop , think , and want to see the movie again for the clues we missed . Well worth seeing . Grady Harp
Meryl Streep Once Again Proves She Act Any Role !	THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA may put off many moviegoers because it sounds like a silly bit of fluff best seen when released on DVD . But this is a fine little movie that , despite its rather predictable and silly storyline , gives a number of fine actors the opportunity to sharpen their skills in playing roles not usually associated with their repertoire . Especially in the case of the brilliant Meryl Streep , who here proves she can be a convincing evil witch and yet hold our attention for her rare vulnerable moments . This is a piece of powerful characterization . The story is both well known because of Lauren Weisberger's Top 10 on the charts novel and because the story of a plain Jane making it big in the corporate world at the risk of jeopardizing her ideals and private life . But the story works again , this time draped in the fashion magazine industry . Andy Sachs ( Anne Hathaway ) is a reporter without a job , a girl simple and physically unsophisticated with a chef boyfriend Nate ( Adrian Grenier ) and extended family , who is placed for interview with Runway Magazine as the personal assistant to the editor Miranda Priestly ( Meryl Streep ) . And is dowdy but smart , and Miranda decides to take her one despite her other assistant Emily ( Emily Blunt ) and jeering crowd's amazement . Miranda is a Diva who is a control freak , spits out demands as she tosses her wrap and purse on the assistant's desk , communicates only is stingingly acidic one liners , and is in general a fearsome Titanic of a woman . The story revolves around Andy's transformation by magazine worker Nigel ( Stanley Tucci ) et al and within weeks Andy is Miranda's right hand person , responsible to her whims . This obligation and change wrecks havoc with Andy's personal life , leads to a Paris fashion trip , an encounter with Christian Thompson ( Simon Baker ) , a hunky writer with high credentials when sets out to woo Andy , and eventually Andy must make some choices about the speedy treadmill on which she finds herself . Yes , it is a bit of Working Girl , Cinderella , etc but it works on screen due largely to the fine performances by the entire cast - but especially for the stunning tour de force by Streep . Clothed in an endless array of fashionable outfits , Streep is the epitome of the fashion guru : she hasn't looked this beautiful in a long time and this film reminds us that she is a very attractive as well as inordinately gifted actress . This role is so well played that it may even be listed in the Oscar category . Now who would have ever expected that from the rather silly idea of The Devil Wears Prada ? Strong work ! Grady Harp
A Glimpse into the Fascinating Life of Author Manuel Puig	One of the most fascinating Latin American authors of the past century is Manuel Puig ( 1932 - 1990 ) and VEREDA TROPICAL , much like another similar author Reinaldo Arenas ' mini-biography ' Before Night Falls ' , shows at least the last few years of his colorful life in Rio de Janeiro before he moved to Cuernavaca , Mexico where he died from a heart attack after surgery at the too young age of 57 . It is a period piece , meant to capture some of the fantastical world about which Puig successfully wrote , and while it is not of documentary accuracy , the film has a flavor that is irresistibly reminiscent of Latin American ' magical realism ' . Manuel Puig was born in the pampas village of General Villegas , Argentina where his perception of the world was formed by a father who was brutish and a mother who was a victim , forcing Puig to find the preferable world of the movies as his preferred version of reality . To quote his biographer and translator Suzanne Jill Levine " . . . he saw that people around him were always acting , playing out roles imported from elsewhere-they all knew that they were copies , and they talked that tawdry , borrowed language , la cursilería personified . The men thought that they were acting out what is expected of men-a pitiful machismo , domesticated gaucho ethics . For the then child Manuel Puig , film was the only reality ; after all , at least in the movie , everybody was supposed to be acting ! " . The film , written and directed by Argentinean Javier Torre , confines his story to only a few years while Puig was exiled from Buenos Aires to Rio de Janeiro , Brazil ( much of Puig's life was spent in Europe and other places due to the mixed reception to his gay lifestyle in Buenos Aires ) . Puig ( Fabio Aste ) has already become famous for his ' Kiss of the Spider Woman ' , ' Heartbreak Tango ' , and other plays and novels and screenplays . He is comfortably ensconced in an expensive apartment and has glamorous friends like May ( Gigi Rua ) , the flamboyant actress Kari Kerr ( Mimi Ardu ) as well as members of the intelligentsia like poet Nestor Perlongher ( Alejandro Baratelli ) and scholar Teresa ( Silvia Buarque ) . He has a weekend lover , a married man who spends his time away from wife and children as Manuel's paramour , and otherwise spends his time with other Taxi Boys ( Paulo Brunetti , et al ) from whom he records dialogues for his racy novels . Manuel lives under the fear that he may have AIDS and is encouraged by his friends to be tested . When he discovers he is negative for HIV , he becomes even more flamboyant in his appearance and behavior , not wanting to admit he is in his 50s and therefore unable to attract young men at the beaches and in bars . After a couple of disappointing encounters , both violent and simply pathetic , he decides to move to Cuernavaca , and it is this decision and its manifestations that form the ending of this tender film . Fabio Aste gives a fine performance as Puig , unafraid to walk the narrow line of effeminacy and parody . Each of the female leads is outstanding - rich in character detail and able to convey how much Puig was loved by women . Torre fills the film with quips from old Rita Hayworth movies ( one of Puig's first novels was ' Betrayed by Rita Hayworth ' ) , showing how Puig was seemingly more at home in the magic of the silver screen than the gritty reality of life in the streets of Rio de Janeiro . The sexual scenes , both domestic and street , are done with restraint without losing dramatic impact . The film is from Argentina and while it supposedly is in Spanish with English subtitles , there is a lot of Portuguese spoken ( as one would expect in Rio de Janeiro ) and the synchronization of the dialogue with the actors seems out of focus . There is also a lack of editing out background noise that at times covers the dialogue : the film does have the look of a low budget Indie . But given these minor flaws this remains a most entertaining and enlightening film , especially for those who love the works of Manuel Puig ! Highly Recommended .
Questions and Commitments and Consequences	CHICO , a two hour film that is a mixture of documentary footage , biographical exploration of an amazing young man who just happens to be the actor portraying himself , and historical drama creating a film that is as confusing , contradictory , explicitly powerful and ugly as the wars it traverses . Given the fact that the film is shot in multiple locations and in many languages ( Spanish , English , Hungarian , Croatian , German , and more ) , it is extremely demanding of the viewer : not one minute of concentration can be spared to attain the impact of the message writer / director Ibolya Fekete spreads before us . Chico ( Eduardo Rózsa Flores on whose life this film is based and who stuns with his acting skills ) begins the film as a young boy living in Chile , the son of a Bolivian Catholic mother and a Hungarian Jewish father , and is caught up in the revolutions of the 1960s very much under the influence of Che Guevara's teachings . He family is Communist but Catholic ( ! ) , forced to flee Pinochet's Chile and the turnover with Allende , and though not speaking any language but Spanish , Chico goes to Europe as a young man whose goal is journalism but whose convictions embrace revolution as the means to alter the future . In his confusing role of journalist / freedom fighter he becomes intimately involved with the revolutions in Hungary , Albania , Israel , Croatia and the Balkan War with the Yugoslavian decimation of the 1990s . Throughout his travels from revolution to revolution , first as a reporter , but always ending up as a freedom fighter , we meet a huge cast of characters , a cast representing both sides of each revolution , and the lines between identities become blurred to the extent that it is impossible to identify the two sides at odds . It is here that Fekete makes his strongest statement : war is atrocious , cruel , meaningless , destructive , brutal and foolish . Chico sees it all yet continues to actively participate in the killing and the mayhem , all the while feeling the pull of his Catholicism and even his Jewish heritage bifurcating his emotional commitment . The huge cast passes in front of our eyes so quickly that few are present long enough to evaluate as actors . One exception stands out : Richie Varga plays Jimmie , a American from Chicago who steps into the final battle of the film and leaves an indelible impression with his good looks and his sensitive portrayal of a soul searching for meaning in the mess of war . Easily the star of the film is the Chico of Eduardo Rózsa Flores , a man who made it through all the changes and chances of the story and maintains the ability to transmit his puzzling life to us in a verismo manner . This is a film that is very difficult to follow , just as are the various revolutions and wars in countries that are forever changing boundaries and names . But in the end it teaches us a lot about the concept of ' why revolution ' and even more about the absurdity of war . Burningly alive cinema , this film is recommended for those who need to understand our global condition from the 1960s to the present . Grady Harp
Paintings Inspire Stories : A Series of Short Films of Varying Quality	PICTURE WINDOWS is a 1994 Showtime television series now available on CD . The concept for the series was to focus on five well-known paintings and give five writers and directors the opportunity to enter the canvas and create a story stimulated by their response to the painting . Sometimes it works well , sometimes the connection between the painting and the story is so tangential that the stimulus is shaky , but in all this is a nice and potentially clever way to approach art . One of the more successful of the films is ' Two Nudes Bathing ' , an exploration of the situation of this famous image by an anonymous artist of two women at bath , one touching the nipple of the other while maintaining eye contact with the painter . John Boorman brings the canvas to life as a history of the work : painter Henri ( Charley Boorman ) has been hired by a wealthy man ( John Hurt ) to paint his daughters and during the course of the painting Henri introduces the daughters to the concept of passion and love . Based on David Hockney's pool painting , Armed Response by Bob Rafelson begins with a young man ( James Calvert ) swimming in his parents ( Robert Loggia and Cynthia Preston ) and after an invasion by an apparent drifter ( Steve Zahn ) , the father and son discover secrets hidden behind their artful home and the enigma posed by the Hockney painting is mimicked . ' Language of the Heart ' is based on a Degas painting of ballerinas at rehearsal and the story concerns the focus of an impresario ( Michael Lerner ) on a particular ballerina who has fallen in love with a street musician : the manner in which each of these people fulfill their needs for love and recognition is well served by a cinematically beautiful rendering . ' Soir Bleu ' by Norman Jewison deals with a sad itinerant circus love affair , ' Song of Songs ' by Peter Bogdanovich is a love triangle , and ' Lightning ' is by Joe Dante . While some of the short films are a bit clumsy , the good ones are well worth watching . The problem with the CD is that not all of them come with 2 discs , so watch for that factor when buying or renting . Grady Harp
A Brave Film Masterfully Made	The writing and directing team of Jean-Pierre Dardenne and Luc Dardenne once again have created a film that is harsh , difficult to watch , and tremendously honest and recalcitrant to opt out for happy endings . These two artists manage to address strange issues , play them as realistic as feasible and them allow the audience reaction to complete the tale . Bruno ( Jérémie Renier ) and Sonia ( Déborah François ) are two teenage drifters who have just given birth to a baby nine days ago . They live off Sonia's welfare and Bruno's petty theft crime gang of young kids , namely Steve ( Jérémie Segard ) who steal for Bruno , Bruno sells the hot items , then pays the boys . Bruno is not a responsible boy , preferring not to get a job , but wanting to buy expensive clothes to look good . His response to Sonia is one of playful adoration ( they are obviously very much in love ) but he appears to have little attachment to their new son Jimmy . In an act of desperation Bruno sells Jimmy on the Black Market for considerable money . When he tells Sonia she is devastated and throws him out . Bruno makes contact with the source to whom he sold Jimmy , gains the baby back , only to discover that other thugs are now involved and demand 5000 Euros from him because of their loss in the scam . Bruno convinces Steve to commit some thefts with him on motorbike and they are followed with disastrous effects for Steve . Bruno faces his atrocious behaviors and the manner in which he accepts responsibility and the consequences attached provide a very heartrending ending to this story . The film is shot with an eye for realistic location and mood . It is almost impossible for the audience to accept the behavior of these teenagers and that seems to be one o the goals of the writers and directors . Life has a spectrum of events - happy , silly , absurd , disastrous , monstrous , tender , forgiving - and these are all incorporated into the form of an unlikely story that becomes so real it is painful to watch . The young actors are superb , completely credible , and very real in their portrayal of the various personality aspects of their characters . The film is played without a musical score ( except for a moment of Johann Strauss on a car radio ) and the cinematography by Alain Marcoen is intensely aligned with the story . L'Infant may not be a film many viewers will find ' entertaining ' , nor was it meant to be . This is a thoughtful and disturbing film and one of the highest quality . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp , August 06
Memorial Day	Decoration Day or Memorial Day as it is now called is a day set aside to honor those who fought in all of the wars since the Civil War , wars in defense of country and citizens . While we languish over the misbegotten war on Iraq it is helpful to view the Clint Eastwood film LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA and visit the mindset of the ' enemy ' - the soldiers pointing weapons our way - in an attempt to understand the global effect of war on the battlefield . Eastwood wisely pairs his disappointing ' Flags of our Fathers ' , which addressed the political ' war games ' simultaneously with the combat on a small Japanese island in World War II , with a ' look at the other side ' viewpoint . The same type of militarism , blind faith in the war machine , brutality , fear of dying , bonding among friends , the spectrum of ' good officers versus cruel inflexible officers , and the spectrum of humanity is equalized and the result is a moving drama that sheds needed light on how ' war ' is a universal beast no matter one's stance . The telling of the story with occasional letter contents is sound if somewhat over long . The screenplay by Iris Yamashita and Paul Haggis is based on Tadamichi Kuribayashi's " Picture Letters from Commander in Chief " - Kuribayashi ( Ken Watanabe ) being the film's chief character . Watanabe is excellent in his well-rounded approach to the role of the ' good commander ' in both his wise military judgment and his kindness bestowed on the simplest of soldiers such as Saigo ( the sensitive Kazunari Ninomiya ) . For many of us this is the first encounter with the vantage that the Japanese were minimally supplied and supported in defending their sacred Iwo Jima against the American aggressors : the battle was a doomed last stand for the Japanese despite all the casualties suffered by both sides . Eastwood does away with the ' kamikazi ' stereotype of the Japanese soldier and allows us to see them as human beings , away form home , fighting to defend their country and their honor . No one is right in war : circumstances and places vary from Europe , the Far East , the Middle East and here but horrors remain the same . It is good to be reminded of this , as in LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA , especially on Memorial Day . Grady Harp
Ménage a Trois , but on whose terms ?	If three can play at love , and if that love is an equilateral triangle , then each of the three is equally responsible for the ramifications . Were that the case in this little low budget Indie film BOOK OF LOVE the story would have more resonance . But art imitates life and life is full of contradictions and double standards and that is what seems to writer / director Alan Brown seems out to show us . David ( Simon Baker ) is a popular history teacher in a private girl's school in New Jersey and is blissfully married to Elaine ( Frances O'Connor ) who is an Events Planner and thrives on her time with her husband , wanting to delay having children for ' at least ten years ' in lieu of an exciting marital sex life . Into this radiantly alive couple's life enters a young fifteen-year-old highschool student and swimmer Chet ( Gregory Smith ) who happens to meet them in an ice cream parlour and immediately feels a warmth for the two of them . The feeling is mutual , especially and David and Elaine learn that Chet has no strong family ties , has never even been into Manhattan much less to Disney World , a place Chet covets . David and Elaine invite Chet into their home and lives , dining with him , taking him to a club in Manhattan ( a place where Elaine takes the stage to sing with her lesbian friend entertainer ) , involving him in talks about Cambodian history and philosophy , etc . As an aside , their lesbian couple friends approach David to be the sperm donor for a child and Elaine and David agree to their request . David , Elaine and Chet appear to be a most happy trio until Chet makes physical advances to Elaine , advances which Elaine initially gently rebuffs but simultaneously feels awakened sensual responses to this young virginal lad . Chet finds it difficult to separate his love for the couple and his corporeal desires and ultimately Chet and Elaine have a sexual encounter . Elaine confesses her indiscretion to David , allows him his initial pain , and then is surprised at David's forgiveness and immediate physical response to her . Chet comes to David's office , apologizes for the event , and David again surprises Chet with his forgiveness and his suggestion that the trio continue with David's promised trip for the three of them to Disney World . While on the outing to Disney World David invites Chet into the hotel room for a drink and a demonstration of Chet's diving skills , a set up for a physical encounter on the floor . Elaine enters the room , sees the encounter as a sexual one , frightens Chet who stabs David in a scuffle , and the Disney World trip ends in disaster . It is the working out of the new twist on the triangle that furnishes the rest of the film and the final results of the trio's relationship is surprising and stretches the limits of credibility . The problem member of this ménage a trois is Elaine , a woman who allows herself to become sexually involved with Chet , but when she believes David is likewise sexually involved with the lad she is unable to cope . It seems like the woman of the triangle determines the rules and that is where many will feel this story is more tragic . O'Connor is a fine English / Australian actress and gives a top-flight performance . Simon Baker is another Australian ( Tasmanian ) actor who has a great deal of depth and strong screen presence . Gregory Smith is a young Canadian actor who shows tremendous promise . Together the three give fine ensemble acting that makes this unlikely trio credibility and engages our empathy . There is a lot of talent in this little film and for a first movie writer / director Alan Brown gives notice of a talent to watch . In time some of the side indulgences included in this film will be less intrusive and more insightfully utilized . But on the whole this is a successful film worth watching . Grady Harp , April 05
A Classy New Coming Out Film with Emphasis on the East LA Community	Fresh young talent and a healthy dollop of enthusiasm serve as the springboard of this well written ( Carlos Portugal and Charo Toledo ) , well directed ( Carlos Portugal ) and well acted exuberant story of those once perceived tightly closet doors of the East Los Angeles Hispanic community . Not that this is the first film to engage the topic of being gay in East LA - QUINCEAÑERA is another superb film on the subject - but it addresses so many other aspects of family and social life happening now that it deserves a wide audience . With a cast of newcomers coupled with some very fine veterans of the screen EAST SIDE STORY comes to life in a highly entertaining fashion . Closeted schooled chef Diego Campos ( a fine debut by René Alvarado ) works as a waiter in his grandmother Sara's ( elegant Irene DeBari ) little Mexican restaurant where grumpy homophobic chef Don Rogelio ( Luis Accinelli ) presides in the kitchen . Diego dreams of opening his own restaurant but family ties keep him grounded . Diego's campy Aunt Bianca ( Gladise Jimenez ) returns from Monaco on one of her many expensive sojourns to find a man and changes begin to happen . Diego's equally closeted boyfriend Pablo Morales ( David Berón ) has been refusing to settle down in a relationship with Diego , claiming that the union is a ' passing fancy ' . When Bianca enters , Pablo's attentions turn to the sexy lady and Diego is brokenhearted . Into this mélange enters a white gay couple who buy a ' flip ' house across the street , a signal to the neighborhood that gentrification is just around the corner . The couple - Wesley ( Steve Callahan ) and Jonathan ( Cory Schneider ) - meet the morose Diego and a match strikes between Diego and Wesley . Jonathan is assigned all the lines having to do with prejudice and is the one who wants out of the neighborhood as soon as their house is enhanced and their gay friends begin to visit . The white couple move apart and Wesley and Diego begin a courtship dance that is encouraged by Diego's family . How Diego handles his loss of Pablo to his Aunt Bianca and copes with the possibility of being open with Wesley forms the story line . It is all the hilarious and not so hilarious sidebars that share the space of the ' outing ' that make the film so personal and successful . Carlos Portugal is clearly a talent to watch , as are his attractive and talented cast members . EAST SIDE STORY is a fine companion piece to QUINCEAÑERA and should enjoy the same degree of popularity for all the same reasons ! Grady Harp
Looking Back	François Ozon ( Swimming Pool , Under the Sand , 8 Women , Water Drops on Burning Rocks , etc ) is a French director with a style of telling stories that is entirely his own . He seems to revel in challenging the audience to participate intellectually and emotionally in the common stories through which we daily walk . He doesn't strive for ' the big moment ' or startling revelations : he is content to place a tale before us to encourage us to re-think our own existence , our parallel lives with those of his characters . ' Cinq fois deux ' ( 5X2 ) is a study of a couple who meet , fall in love , marry , have a child , and divorce . But the story is told in reverse : we begin during a meeting with the lawyers who present to Marion ( Valeria Bruni Tedeschi ) a successful business woman , and to Gilles ( Stéphane Freiss ) and equally successful businessman the papers outlining their divorce settlement . All seems calm , yet after the signing the couple appears in a hotel room for one last sexual encounter that speaks volumes about their finished relationship . From that scene we move into the life they shared as a married couple with one child , a family that seems perfect , yet during a dinner party with Gilles ' gay brother Christophe ( Antoine Chappey ) and his lover Mathieu ( Marc Ruchmann ) we begin to see parallels of relationship fallacies . We step back further to the wedding of Marion and Gilles where Marion's parents likewise illustrate marriages with both the sour and semi-sweet sides and the cards are on the table . And on their wedding night Gilles falls asleep on their marital bed and the frustrated Marion falls into the arms of an American stranger ( Jason Tavassoli ) . A step further back to the courting days reveals more dissident threads , and finally the couple's original meeting at a seaside resort where Gilles is retreating with his then girlfriend Valérie ( Géraldine Pailhas ) suggests patterns of behavior that , knowing the ending because it was the beginning of the film , bring the audience into the realm of understanding . The cast is excellent , the lovemaking scenes are seductive and well filmed , and the transitions for the retrograde story are smooth and intriguing . The film allows us to examine three sets of relationships in detail and in doing so gives us insight as to just why trust is so important to success . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Suspenseful Thriller / Mystery in Story and Setting	HALF LIGHT ( a title with a lot of meaning revealed only at the conclusion of the film ! ) is a fine , atmospheric , well-acted little drama that explores belief in the beyond and its impact of post-traumatic responses to death . Written and directed by Craig Rosenberg ( Hotel de Love ) the story challenges the viewer to enter the strange world of afterlife and consider the fine differences between illusion and credibility . Rachel Carson ( Demi Moore in a fine performance ) is a successful writer living in London with her disillusioned editor husband Brian ( Henry Ian Cusick ) and her young son Thomas ( Beans El-Balawi ) . In a freak accident Thomas drowns and Rachel is devastated , and deciding that her marriage is indeed over she moves to a little quaint Scottish island cottage where she can devote her mind to her writing . She is a loner , talking only on cell phone to her best friend Sharon ( Kate Isitt ) in London , until she meets her neighbors the Murrays ( James Cosmo and Joanna Hole ) who befriend her . She begins to see visions of Thomas , talks to him knowing that he is just in her imagination , until she meets some townspeople who undermine her belief in departed spirits . There is a lighthouse off the coast and Rachel boats out , meets the lighthouse keeper Angus ( Hans Matheson who is remembered for his Marius in ' Les Misérables ' , as Nero in ' Imperium : Nero ' , and Yuri in ' Dr . Zhivago ' and Robert Devereaux , Earl of Essex in ' The Virgin Queen ' - the latter two being TV miniseries ) . Slowly the two develop an attraction and affair , only for Rachel to find out from the townsfolk that Angus has been dead for seven years ! At this point the mystery takes precedence and the intricate truths of a terrifying plot unfold : the race to the ending is filled with surprises and unexpected events . The cinematography by Ashley Rowe and the musical score by Brett Rosenberg add enormously to the mood of this piece . HALF LIGHT is a solid movie , filled with suspense and well-written story and character development and deserves far more attention than it received in the theaters . Demi Moore proves again that she can handle dramatic roles well and Hans Matheson is most assuredly a young actor to watch ! Grady Harp
A Dazzling Period Piece : Filling in the Missing Pieces of Moliere's Career	' Molière ' is a treat for the eyes as well as a tickler for historical manipulation and in the hands of writers Laurent Tirard and Grégoire Vigneron the cinematic version of the ' lost years ' of Jean-Baptiste Poquelin AKA Molière's life abounds in superb entertainment . If the story becomes a bit too convoluted at times , trying to paste together a story that parallels the French playwright's most famous plays , ' Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme ' and ' Tartuffe ' as the basis for the missing portion of Molière's life , and drags on a bit too long at two hours , it is never less that gorgeous to look at and witty to hear . Jean-Baptiste Poquelin or Molière ( Romain Duris ) is an actor and playwright for a comedy troupe that tours the provinces of France , spending himself into debtor's prison . His mysterious disappearance from prison is the time this film uses to explain how Molière was enticed by the wealthy M . Jourdain ( Fabrice Luchini ) to travel to his estate for the purpose of teaching the dilettante how to write plays and to act in order to win the affection of a wealthy young Célimène ( Ludivine Sagnier ) while keeping his daughter and his wife Elmire ( Laura Morante ) at bay . There are many subplots that tend to distract but in the end the ' play ' created by Molière's presence and interaction with all of the other characters provides the life lessons and food for material that leads Molière to be the greatest of French playwrights . The cast is superb , the visual effects are opulent , the musical score is period correct , and the cinematography finds a fine balance between the lush vistas of the countryside and estates and the grimy realism of the prison and small theaters . Perhaps the story is not historically correct , but no one really knows the true events in the missing portion pf Molière's life , and this version is at least plausible and thought provoking . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Very Mixed Bag	ADAM AND STEVE is a movie you want to succeed : the idea of an honest gay relationship developing between two guys with a weird history and subsequent difficulties forming meaningful intimacy , the presence of four fine actors , and a film that seems to take itself not too seriously . The problem is that writer / director / star Craig Chester just seems to have put too much into his bag for one film and in doing so he diluted the strength it could have had . Adam ( Craig Chester ) first met Steve ( Malcolm Gets ) in a dance bar in 1987 where Adam ( accompanied by his grossly obese friend Rhonda - Parker Posey in a fat suit ) is dazzled by Steve's good looks and on a bet from Rhonda ends up on the date from hell : after snorting coke cut with baby laxative the two men become amorous with some rather embarrassing consequences . 17 years later Adam is a bird watcher guide while his friend Rhonda , now without a single pound of fat , is a sadly unsuccessful stand up comic . Adam inadvertently injures his beloved dog and in trying to get help at a human hospital encounters psychiatrist Steve and the two begin a courtship . Neither man is able to cope with the idea of monogamous intimacy yet they develop a solid relationship , despite visits with dysfunctional families ( Adam's Jewish family are ridiculously accident prone while Steve's Texas redneck parents are coldly homophobic ) . Steve has a straight roommate Michael ( Chris Kattan ) who plays into Steve's life the way Rhonda plays into Adam's life . Eventually memory recovers the past , it is dealt with and the ending is very predictable - as well as bit sappy . Each of the main characters does a fine job with their respective roles . It is the sidebar diversions that mess up the storyline rather than enhancing it . Yes , much of the nonsense can be forgiven because the film's heart is in the right place , but why this talented group could not have inserted a little restraint here and there is a frustrating question with which we are left . It is an entertaining film that errs on over the top asides to the point of distraction .
A Sensitive Examination of Displaced People and the Consequences	Writer / director Simon Chung , in his first major motion picture , shows evidence of a solid talent and promise that there are many fine films lurking about in his head . He has produced a story that is pertinent on many levels , addressing the questions of family bonding after transplantation to another country , sexual coming of age of a young lad without support systems , miscegenation of cultures at polar opposites , and how to cope in a strange land without adequate mental preparation . Eric ( Timothy Lee - a very promising , subtle young actor ) and his sister , mother and father move from Hong Kong to Toronto , Canada to seek the wealth of their dream . Eric was in with the wrong crowd in Hong Kong and doesn't want to move to Canada , but his parents force the move to aid his education AND to find some success in business that eluded them in Hong Kong . The family moves in with relatives ( Eric's very hunky cousin becomes the object of his sexual fantasies despite the fact that the cousin has a girlfriend ) and slowly the family works into the atmosphere of Toronto . But Eric's parents show signs of breakup , a fact that actually occurs . Eric finds an older man who supplies his needs sexually and emotionally , but the man has a lover who returns form the Philippines to destroy the possibility of permanence . The mother opens a restaurant forcing Eric to work there , the only positive aspect of the job being Eric's friendship / potential love with one of the busboys who he decides to help make the crossing into New York . On a very brave venture Eric succeeds in getting his current amour into the city only to be deserted by him . The film slows and stops without resolution of Eric's needs . And it is this ending that makes the impression . Life , Chung seems to be saying , is not a progressive series of culminating events , but is rather a potpourri of isolated incidents from which we learn and move on . The cast is uniformly fine , but the standouts are Eric's very handsome cousin who appears to have a solid career ahead of him , and Timothy Lee who brings compassion and very subtle acting to a difficult role . He is another actor to watch . Though being marketed as a gay film ( and indeed it does deal with gay issues ) , the audience should be much larger , especially as we are constantly dealing with immigration issues today : this is another look and stance for a large problem and one about which we understand too little . Grady Harp
A Strong Character Driven Drama Revealing the Underbelly of our National Intelligence	BREACH could have been a documentary as the facts are all in place and the 2001 capture of Robert Hanssen , the most formidable spy in this country's history , is one that is mind boggling enough without the need for dramatization . Yet the screenplay by Adam Mazur and William Rotko in turn based on a story by director Billy Ray with Mazur and Rotko transforms this infamous case into a fine melodrama . The result is a smart thriller , one that holds our attention despite the fact that the results of the case are public knowledge . Robert Hanssen ( in a brilliant performance by Chris Cooper ) works in national Intelligence and is a crusty , ominous character with some strange demons in his head . FBI Agent Kate Burroughs ( Laura Linney ) studies a young FBI clerk Eric O'Neill ( Ryan Phillippe ) and decides he is the one gritty and fearless enough to assign to the suspicious Hanssen , a man the FBI feels certain is a major suspect in the breach of security . Hanssen has been selling Intelligence reports to the Soviet Union but in so careful a manner that his status is almost impenetrable . Eric is married to an East German girl Julianna ( Caroline Dhavernas ) and while she is proud of Eric's advancement in the FBI she fears his preoccupation with his work . Hanssen and his wife Bonnie ( Kathleen Quinlan ) form a friendship with Eric and Julianna and that friendship , together with a shared near obsession with the Catholic Church , gains Hanssen's trust in Eric . The tension between the investigation by the FBI and Eric's role as a mole create some terrifying situations . But Eric overcomes all obstacles and proceeds to successfully match Hanssen's inscrutable mind and behavior and in the end takes great risks in all aspects of his life to fulfill his mission . The cast is excellent with special attention to the performances of Cooper , Phillippe , and Linney . The supporting roles are carefully cast with such fine actors as Gary Cole , Dennis Haysbert , and Bruce Davison . The production values add immeasurably to the aura of suspense . This is a fine movie not only for the qualities mentioned but also for bringing to light the lack of security from even the most trusted parts of our government . Disturbing food for thought and action . Grady Harp
Aging : The Hardships and the Rewards	LUGARES COMUNES ( Common Ground ) is yet another sensitive Argentinean film that has the courage to deal with the bumpy political life of Argentina as well as the equally rocky road to aging . Based on the novel by Lorenzo F . Aristarain and directed by Adolfo Aristarain this is a film of sunlight and shadows - and those clouds that promise to unveil the sun despite passing darkness . Fernando Robles ( Federico Luppi ) is a writer and university professor in Buenos Aires who is informed before his planned trip to Madrid to visit his son Pedro ( Carlos Santamaría ) and daughter-in-law Natacha ( Valentina Bassi ) that he is being placed in early retirement : the crumbling government of Argentina cannot support such things as education ! After an exquisite farewell of sage advice to his students on what is important in the role of a teacher , he goes home to his loving wife of many years Liliana ( Mercedes Sampietro ) to prepare for their journey to Madrid . At the airport Liliana senses sadness in Fernando and he confesses that he has been ' fired ' , that they have little money to live on in Buenos Aires : he covers his sadness by buying Liliana perfumes she loves . This couple is bonded so beautifully it makes us weep . In Madrid the couple is forced to stay with the son and daughter but the closeness of this familial proximity is intolerable when Fernando informs his son of his financial situation . Pedro is cold and harsh and is in life for money and refuses to assist his parents . The couple leaves , returning to Argentina where they under advice from lawyer Carlos ( Arturo Puig ) sell their home and move to the country where they plan to grow grapes - a return to the purity of the land . But fate intervenes and the story ends in a manner that leaves the viewer sad but wiser . The cast is sterling and the direction is first rate . This is one of those films that should be required viewing for many reasons , but especially for people who are approaching the time of retirement and the fear that holds . Highly recommended for a large viewing audience . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Brotherhood and Revenge : A Study in Fighting Crime	John Singleton has a gift for depicting the gritty side of life and making it credible : there are reasons for heads-up defensive action in neighborhoods where perpetrators an victims live side by side in a world teetering on imbalance . FOUR BROTHERS is a finely tuned , taut little film that demonstrates the influence of a caring adult on kids with little future can impact lives . Evelyn Mercer ( a terrific Fionnula Flanagan ) is a single woman who adopted four orphans as children and raised them tightly bonded brothers : two are white ( ex-con Bobby - Mark Wahlberg - and gay musician Jack - Garrett Hedlund : two are African American - ( gentle Angel - Tyrese Gibson - and stay-at-home businessman Jeremiah - André Benjamin ) . The four brothers reunite when their mother is killed during a store holdup . Knowing that the Detroit police are a corrupt organization they take matters into their own hands , seeking out their mother's killers . Along the way they discover aspects of each other that draw them eventually even closer as brothers . The cast is excellent with fine cameo performances from Terrence Howard and Josh Charles as polar opposite policemen , from Flanagan ( who though murdered in the first frames of the film reappears to ' spiritually ' influence the brothers ) , Chiwetel Ejiofor as the bad guy , Tara P . Henson as Jeremiah's wife and Sofía Vergara as Angel's girlfriend . The story is solid if a bit predictable , but the messages are many about racism , brotherhood , family importance , and awareness of police corruption . Singleton directs with breakneck speed yet allows us time to get to know everyone in the story . This is a dandy action film with a heart . Grady Harp
Ozon Updates Fassbinder in an Edgy Ménage a Quarte	François Ozon has flair and style ( ' Swimming Pool ' , ' Under the Sand ' , ' 8 Women ' , etc ) and in scripting Rainer Fassbinder's 1970s play ' Gouttes d'eau sur pierres brûlantes ' for the screen he has created an edgy , fun , and poignant examination of the lives of four people at their intersection . Act I ( for that is the way the film is laid out in homage to Fassbinder's play ) : 50-year-old Léopold ( Bernard Giraudeau ) is entertaining 19-year-old Franz ( Malik Zidi ) , who he has picked up in a bar , with sharp repartees about his past loves and is sparred by Franz relating his current affair with the young and beautiful Anna ( Ludivine Sagnier ) . The conversation gradually gets around to seduction and both Léopold and Franz happily reenact each other's physical fantasies . Act II : some months later and Franz has moved in with Léopold becoming the devoted housewife in lederhosen to Léopold's increasingly cranky self . They argue , threaten , but eventually succumb to the safety of the boudoir to settle differences . Act III : Léopold's ex lover Vera ( Anna Levine ) arrives at the door to find Léopold in a new life and departs brokenhearted . Anna likewise arrives during one of Léopold's absences and for two days Franz and Anna try to recapture their previous affair . Upon Léopold's return , Anna finds Léopold appealing and behaves seductively . Vera arrives , reports that she is a transsexual now in a female form , and Léopold is delighted with the idea of a ménage a quarte . But it is Franz who has found his true life and love and how he deals with the proposed turn of events forms the rather surprising end to this film . Each of the four actors is excellent and Ozon paces them well . There are some really fine moments , as when Franz reclines in his bath quoting Heine's poem ' Lorelei ' revealing how far more penetrating the changes in his vision of his life really have become , when Ozon improves on Fassbinder . Not a great movie but a bit of the different that spices movie viewing . Grady Harp
A Friendship Defined	While many books and films about South Africa's Apartheid have attempted to convey the tension and the eventual dissolution of that sociopolitical scheme , few histories bring us as close to the core of the schism as does Bille August's excellent film THE COLOR OF FREEDOM . Based on the book GOODBYE BAFANA by James Gregory ( with Bob Graham ) the story details the relationship between Nelson Mandela and prison warden James Gregory during Mandela's long imprisonment on Robben Island off the coast of South Africa , and the gradual friendship that occurred between these disparate men . Studying this development of a friendship provides an opportunity to better understand the concept of Apartheid and of the evils of racism in general . Nelson Mandela ( Dennis Haysbert ) was convicted of treason and sentenced to life imprisonment on the desolate Robben Island for his non-violent attempts to end racism in South Africa , attempts that eventually resulted in work stoppages and resistance movements that moved the articulate , well-educated lawyer Mandela into the realm of activism . While on Robben Island he was guarded by one James Gregory ( Joseph Fiennes ) , a pro-apartheid , cruel prison employee who was assigned to Mandela as a spy and censor because of Gregory's knowledge of the local language Xhosa ( learned from his childhood when his best friend was a black boy named Bafana ) . Gregory lives on the island with this wife ( Diane Kruger ) and children and his commitment to his family provides a stark contrast to his hatred of his black ' Kaffir ' prisoners : his involvement with the pro-apartheid status is strengthened by his direct communication with Intelligence in the cities of South Africa where his censored information from the prisoners leads to definitive capture and ' disposal ' of the blacks . On a trip ashore Gregory and his wife and children witness first hand the beatings and cruelties of the whites against the blacks and Gregory returns to his duties on Robben Island with a gradually changing point of view for the model prisoner Mandela . They begin communicating in Xhosa and Gregory allows Mandela's wife Winnie ( Faith Ndukwana ) to spend more committed time with her husband on her restricted visits to Robben island . One particular misstep - Gregory passes Mandela's Christmas gift of a piece of chocolate to Winnie - threatens Gregory's status on the island , while at the same time bonding Mandela and Gregory like brothers . Gregory's life and philosophy have been changed by Mandela's powerful personality and spirit and his eventual release from prison into the new , freed South Africa has been aided in a small but meaningful way by Gregory - a reflection of Gregory's childhood bond with his friend Bafana . August captures the tension and the atmosphere of South Africa in this visually stunning film . Fiennes is superb as James Gregory as is Diane Kruger as his wife . Dennis Haysbert conveys the spiritual essence of Mandela despite the fact that his physical appearance is not at all like the Mandela known so well from the still constant photographs of the diminutive freedom fighter we see frequently . But the film does convey the tenor of the changing times during the 27-year confinement of Nelson Mandela . The featurettes on the DVD offer lengthy history lessons about the real events referenced in the film and add immeasurably to the film's overall success . There is much to learn from this film in addition to the fact that it is a solid work of cinematic artistry . Grady Harp
French Fluff Farce Surveys Pansexuality	The French have always been able to take issues involving sexuality , fidelity , relationships , and youth and create a healthy fun discussion : Hollywood still has problems even approaching these subjects , much less allowing itself to be lighthearted and universal . ' Crustaces et coquillages ' ( COTE D'AZUR ) is a little French film that addresses these subjects in a manner so light and fun that the viewer wonders what all the puritanical fuss is about ! It is summer on the Cote d'Azur and a fun couple Marc ( Gilbert Melki ) and Béatrix ( Valeria Bruni Tedeschi ) are vacationing in a wonderful beach house with their teenage kids Charly ( Romain Torres ) and Laura ( Sabrina Seyvecou ) where Marc lived as a youth . Laura immediately takes off to Portugal with her biker boyfriend and Charly spends his days with his friend Martin ( Edouard Collin ) , an openly gay teenager who is in love with Charly . Beatrix observes the boys ' interactions and decides her son is gay , a fact that doesn't bother her at all but that seems to cause problems for Marc . Béatrix's lover Mathieu arrives on the scene , declaring his desire for Beatrix to leave Marc : Beatrix isn't so sure - she loves Marc and her family , but also wants her summer lover . In a series of hilarious shower sequences Charly pleasures himself , and indeed the entire crew in the house does the same , and Martin's advances to Charly are rebuffed forcing Martin to seek outlet at the beach's notorious fort section . Marc decides to thwart Charly's excessive ' use ' of the shower and unplugs the hot water . Charly calls a plumber Didier ( Jean-Marc Barr ) , who just happens to be the hunky ex-lover of Marc , having had a gay affair before Marc married Beatrix . In following each other around , Charly discovers Martin and Didier and then Marc and Didier en flagrant and then walks in on Beatrix and Mathieu : everyone's secret is out ! But instead of a disaster , the cast suddenly breaks into a silly showbiz musical number blaming all the infidelities and facets of love on the ' violets ' ( the aphrodisiac of oysters ! ) . It is a cuckoo ending and would have been a better film without it , but the acting is all so rich and fine and the story is so well told , that this little diversion can be excused . This is a fun fling , with a superb cast having a good time ( especially the extraordinarily gifted Valeria Bruni Tedeschi ) . The story makes us laugh and think - all in a setting that is like a dream vacation ! Enjoy and have fun ! Grady Harp
A Solid Story , A Solid Cast , A Solid Production - but where is the passion ?	CATCH A FIRE is a very entertaining and instructive film about the 1980s South African problem with Apartheid - a time when the minority white population had political control over the far larger populace of blacks . It is based on a true story of one Patrick Chamusso , a fine working man not affiliated with the growing number of terrorists fighting to unite the black citizens to overthrow the Boers who is driven to alter his life to join the militant party of the African National Congress when he has personal experiences of abuse by the controlling whites . Patrick Chamusso ( a fine Derek Luke ) supports his wife Precious ( Bonnie Mbuli Henna ) and two daughters as a foreman at the oil plant . Though the plant is under investigation for terrorist acts Chamusso remains adamantely a pacificist . Yet when the conflicted Boer policeman Nic Vos ( Tim Robbins ) begins to bear down on Chamusso as suspect in a fire explosion at his plant , Chamusso's alibi conceals the fact that while away coaching the plant's boys ' soccer team he steals away to see his illegitimate son and ex-girlfriend and this bit of secrecy to protect his wife's feelings causes the explosion with Vos that confines him to jail . Chamusso joins the military branch of the ANC , trains with them , is captured , abused , imprisoned and finally released with the rise of Nelson Mandela . How all of the progress of the story takes place is the pleasure of the fine script by Shawn Slovo and the direction of Phillip Noyce ( The Quiet American , Rabbit-Proof Fence , The Bone Collector , Clear and Present Danger , Patriot Games etc ) who knows how to move these movies along . The cast is excellent , the sense of place ( the film was filmed entirely on location ) and the production aspects are all superb . The only problem with the film is the ' sell-out ' at the end when suddenly we are watching bits and pieces of filmed history and voice over content that seems to diminish the emotional impact of the film . Still , for another opportunity to understand Apartheid and the great country of South Africa , this film is very much worth watching . And Derek Luke , Bonnie Henna and Tim Robbins offer excellent acting skills . Grady Harp
Meltdown : The Rise and Fall of a ' Good ' Criminal	LAYER CAKE is a film to be watched with all of your senses alert : it is best viewed after a caffeine jag , or way before bedtime as it demands full attention to follow this circuitous and at times meandering plot . You have to work at this one but in the end the work pays off - sort of . To begin with the main character ( Daniel Craig ) is a nameless ' good criminal ' middleman working quietly producing Ecstasy pills . His motto is work small , stay quiet , pay your people on time , and get out when you can . The remainder of the story is how our nameless ' hero ' becomes insidiously involved in the various layers of his chosen crime of drug trafficking and the results of his blood-streaked rise to the top layer of the cake . There are so many characters involved in this story ( each well acted , tidy cameos ) that soon you lose track of who's who and who just got whacked . It is a violent climb to the top and a surprise ending that in retrospect should have seemed apparent . Daniel Craig plays his heart out with this character and he is joined by such luminaries as Michael Gambon and Colm Meany in pulling off a pulsating crime drama . Yes , it is in the same realm as ' The Usual Suspects ' and other British wham bang high-density flicks . The goods are delivered - but the question arises as to who cares ? Perfect for this genre , but keep the coffee brewing lest you let your attention lag . Grady Harp
Filial Love and Adolescent Obsession	' Grosse bêtise ' or BREAKIN ' OUT is another example of how well French films deal with intimate subjects , taking the time to explore emotional attitudes that so often are ignored by Hollywood films . In this case the extent that true filial love can lead to dangerous consequences is played out in a story that is well written ( Stanislas Carré de Malberg and Pascal Dupont ) , well directed ( Olivier Péray ) , and well acted by a fine cast . Nicolas Guérin ( Erwan Demaure ) is 13-year-old happy son of Laetitia ( Isabelle Habiague ) and Thierry Guérin who make their living selling drugs . In the first moments of the film the mother and father are in a car accident , killing the father and resulting in the arrest and imprisonment of the mother for drug trafficking . Nicolas is devastated and immediately begins to think of ways to restore his mother . He is placed in a warm and loving foster home of the Delmas ( Christian Crahay and Nathalie Willame ) and their adolescent daughter Elodie ( Stéphane Caillard ) . He is treated well until he enters school where he encounters pier mocking about his mother being a jailbird . One young friend Tanker ( Ouassini Embarek ) , whose own father in jailed for a history of being a gangster , befriends him and quickly becomes a caring confidant and facilitator . The two lads form a warm friendship and begin to devise ways for Nicolas ' mother's escape . Eventually Elodie becomes involved and the three plan a fake funeral for Nicolas because that is the only way his mother could be temporarily released from prison - to attend her son's funeral ! The plans are complex and the results of the scheme are driven to the extreme with a surprise ending that involves a fruitless run for the border . The manner in which filial devotion affects each of the film's characters draws some touching conclusions . Though the film at first appears to condone some anti-social behavior , the sensitivity of the director keeps realistic reins on the story . In the end this is a fine little film about family and friendship and the benefits and obligations of both . Grady Harp
Obsession	David Fincher knows how to go straight to the bone , whether that be by grisly effects or wearing down the psyches of his audience . In ZODIAC he traces the very long investigation of the serial killer in the 1960s and 1970s in the San Francisco area who was never found and has managed to mimic that interminably long yet fascinating exploration by taking close to 3 hours to unravel the bits and pieces of evidence that were to confound the police and the press alike . Based on the book by Robert Graysmith ( the SF Chronicle cartoonist who became obsessed with the conundrum of the murders ) and adapted for the screen by James Vanderbilt , ZODIAC holds the viewers ' attention by its smart , edge of the seat development of what could easily been a too-long-song of a docudrama . Much of the success of the film is due to Fincher's pacing and yet a great deal of the credibility of the story falls in the capable hands of a very fine cast . Jake Gyllenhaal portrays the obsessed Graysmith , a man whose life as a cartoonist for the newspaper and as a husband to Melanie ( Chloë Sevigny ) and father to three children is gradually broken by his preoccupation with finding the serial killer named Zodiac . He is well supported by Mark Ruffalo as Inspector David Toschi and Anthony Edwards as Inspector William Armstrong , Robert Downey as the alcoholic reporter James Avery , Brian Cox as Melvin Belli , and Elias Koteas , John Carroll Lynch and others in brief but very important cameo roles . For some the film may feel like a long frustrating bore , but magnify that by the real life situation the Zodiac killer created over extended years and the frustration of the forces who wouldn't let the case die will be realized . Obsession such as this takes patience . The payoff is well worth it . Grady Harp
A Good Script , A Fine Cast , a So-So Production	THE JOURNEY OF JARED PRICE is a small budget Indie that has so much going for it that overlooking the squeaky production values is not a problem . Though it is obvious that the film was made in a short time with a minimal budget ( the quality of the film is washed out to almost variations of gray ) , the direction and the cast serve the screenplay by writer / director Dustin Lance Black well . It has some very fine moments . Jared Price ( Corey Spears ) , 19 naïve years of age , arrives in Los Angeles from Georgia with high hopes and little money and checks into a youth hostel where he meets Robert ( Josh Jacobson ) who is more than casually attentive to the oblivious but interested Jared , and finds a job as an attendant to blind woman Mrs . Haines ( Rocki Craigg ) , a kind and wise wealthy lonely lady whose son Matthew ( Steve Tyler ) is ' paying for ' someone to give his mother the attention she needs . Jared and Mrs . Haines quickly bond , each supplying the care and tenderness the other needs . Matthew is living the high life on his mother's wealth and is in a long-term ( but only partially non-monogamous ) relationship with Andrew ( Bryan Shyne ) and when he meets Jared the signals go up and Matthew introduces Jared to his first physical relationship . Matthew's only conscience is his work partner Kate ( Gillian Harris ) who warns Matthew to be true to Andrew and not to pursue Jared . But as the tryst between Matthew and Jared deepens , each of the men learns more about himself and what is actually important in life and the story ends with enlightened views of the meaning of love . Each of the actors does a fine job finding the core of each character and there is enough comedy to keep the drama afloat . Yes , there are scenes of bedroom activity , but they for the most part are done with taste . This is a fine example of how a good story and crew can make a good movie on a minimal budget . Were that there were more of these . . . Grady Harp
Pastoral : Reha Erdem's Soliloquy on the Passage of Time and Youth	BAS VAKIT ( TIME AND WINDS ) is less a narrative film than a suspended contemplation on the cycle of life , the passage of time , and the persistence of family traits . It is a work from Turkey of rare beauty visually , musically , and natural grandeur . Writer / director Reha Erdem is a poet as well as an accomplished filmmaker . Three young children are approaching the torrents of adolescence , each carrying emotional scars and family histories that will forever alter the way they reach adulthood . Omer ( Ozkan Ozen ) is the son of the local imam who climbs the minaret five times a day to chant the call to prayer : Omer's younger , smarter brother is favored by the father and Omer copes with the loathing for his father by planning his death . Yakup ( Ali Bey Kayali ) , Omer's closest friend , has a crush on his teacher ( Selma Ergeç ) but is deeply disillusioned when he spies on his own father ( whom he has always defended against his grandfather's abuse ) attempting to court his teacher . Yildiz ( Elit Iscan ) is a girl under-appreciated by her mother and is stunned to overhear her parents coupling . The three children attempt to engage in a normal childhood , reacting tot he beauty of the natural surroundings of their poor little village to the point of learning animal husbandry first hand ! They befriend another young orphan Davut ( Tarik Sonmez ) , the town shepherd , when he sustains physical abuse from his guardian . The sensitivity of the children's reflections of their parents ' maladaptive behavior creates a bond that sustains their daily trials . There is not a lot of narrative here , but the sensory pleasures of the film are immense . Divided into sections labeled Night , Evening , Afternoon , Noon and Morning , the film follows the marriage of the calls to worship that clock the lives of these people with the atmospheric cinematography by Florent Herry and embellished by the sumptuous musical score by Arvo Pärt . It is a long film ( just short of two hours ) that takes its time to unfold the mysteries of coming of age and it is a film that will haunt the viewer long after the credits have ceased . In Turkish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Revisiting The Man Who Cried at Home	Some films actually play more sensitively on the small screen of home viewing than when they are achingly spread across a large theater screen where all of the flaws show . For this viewer such is the case for THE MAN WHO CRIED : reduced to the intimate state this little film carries much more weight . Sally Potter wrote and directed this homage to the effects of WW II on Europe and in doing so created some memorable characters and deft images that linger . 1927 , Russia , and a Yiddish singer father ( Oleg Yankovsky ) sings to his beloved daughter , knowing of the impending gloom that seethes over Russia . With his family's interests at heart he flees to America , and encourages his daughter Suzie ( Christina Ricci ) to follow . Politics knock and Suzie's attempts to join her father results in her landing in England where she is accepted as a foster child by an English couple who try fervently to rid Suzie of her Jewishness for her protection . Time passes and Suzie moves to Paris to earn money as a singer . She meets fellow Russian ex-pat Lola ( Cate Blanchett ) and the two sing in a Parisian theater until they are invited to join the chorus of an opera company headed by Felix Perlman ( Harry Dean Stanton ) and starring the famous Italian ( fascist ) tenor Dante Dominio ( John Turturro ) . Suzie encounters a gypsy Cesar ( Johnny Depp ) and falls in love . With the advance of the Nazi troops toward Paris , the opera company fragments , the threat of Jewish and gypsy annihilation becomes a potent force , and Suzie and Lola manage to book passage on a boat to America . In America she searches for her father only to find him advanced in years , with a new family in tow , and critically ill . The full circle of the man who cried comes in the quiet of the hospital room , echoing songs of happier times . Sound sappy ? Well , it sort of is , but so much of the plot and script problems pale in the manner in which the film is presented . The actors are solid ( the range of accents demonstrates a lot of coaching ) and some are outstanding : Cate Blanchett , John Turturro , Johnny Depp , and Christina Ricci in her most sensitive role to date . The music is a mélange of Yiddish songs , operatic arias and original score by the highly regarded serious composer Osvaldo Golijov ! The cinematography by Sacha Vierny is simply breathtaking , whether in the bleak blandness of Russia or the gaudy theatrics of Paris . In all , this is a beautiful film to watch and to hear , and that says a lot these days !
Would that more Romantic Comedies be this Honest !	PRIME is one of those films that perhaps viewing the DVD comments by the cast and crew first before watching the film would enhance the appreciation . This is a solid little work by writer / director Ben Younger who has created a story , somewhat autobiographical , and engaged the interest and devotion of some very fine actors to bring off this simple but very honest view of love and its permutations . Rafi ( Uma Thurman ) is a recently divorced , successful fashion worker ( she sets up camera shoots for high fashion photographers ) who is in therapy with the sensitive and understanding therapist Liza Metzger ( Meryl Streep ) who supports Rafi's need for love and encourages her to put her bad marriage behind her and find someone who will appreciate her . Reluctantly re-entering the dating scene Rafi meets young artist-wannabe David Bloomberg ( Bryan Greenberg ) and a chemistry develops between them that eventually results in their meaningful bonding . There are problems to face : Rafi is a 37-year-old Gentile divorcée and David is a 23-year-old Jewish unemployed kid . But the biggest problem is that Rafi's therapist and David's mother are one and the same person ! Lisa is conflicted , wanting to provide on-going therapy for Rafi whom she sincerely cares about while insisting that David marry a Jewish girl and not be involved with an older woman ! The manner in which this problematic triad is worked through , and it is a bumpy ride , is the story of the film . The atmosphere of this on the surface illogical story is so well realized - the Jewish family scenes are very funny , the warmth of the relationship between Rafi and David say a lot about love despite hurdles , the inner struggle Lisa faces with her own therapist - that the movie is a natural joy to watch . Meryl Streep gives a fine turn as Lisa , and Uma Thurman and newcomer Bryan Greenberg deliver a wholly credible couple with a fine screen chemistry . This is far more than the usual ' chick flick ' : this is a little look at human interactions , sensitively related by a fine cast and crew and a film that deserves serious attention as what Romantic Comedies can really be . Recommended . Grady Harp
See the Film , Pass the Word : A Call for Involvement in Public Action	BORDERTOWN is more than a suspenseful film about a tragic reality that has been terrifying Juarez , Mexico for years . This film , written and directed by Gregory Nava ( ' Mi Familia ' , ' El Norte ' , ' Selena ' , etc ) , approaches a public service campaign on the part of Nava and the rest of his cast and crew - especially producer / star Jennifer Lopez . After the stunning effect of the film , the viewer is encouraged to watch the several excellent featurettes on the DVD - and then try to remain uninvolved . Chicago Sentinel editor George Morgan ( Martin Sheen ) convinces the reluctant reporter Lauren Adrian ( Jennifer Lopez ) to fly to Juarez , Mexico to cover a combustible story about the ongoing rapes and murders of women who work the factories along the border for little pay . Lauren would prefer becoming a foreign correspondent and extracts a promise that if she takes on this ugly assignment ( ' I don't speak Spanish and I don't know anything about Mexico ' ) , Morgan will grant that request . When the beautiful blond Lauren arrives in Juarez she is shocked by the reality : a very young factory worker girl Eva ( the fine young actress Maya Zapata ) has managed to survive a rape and attempted murder , literally climbing out of her grave and escaping . Lauren and Eva bond and Lauren realizes that her story about the 5000 victims of this heinous serial killing may just rest with the information Eva holds : she can identify her assailants . With the aid of anxious newspaper owner Alfonso Diaz ( Antonio Banderas ) the three begin the dangerous struggle to unveil the truths about the cover-up of the deaths : the police and government corruption in Mexico are matched by similar deeds in the USA in order to protect the NAFTA arrangement which apparently holds the profit of the mega-factories of more importance then the mere lives of thousands of Mexican women . How the trio infiltrates the corruption ( and the buried secret realities of Lauren's humble beginnings ) provide the remainder of the film . Nava elects to shoot this film in garish light and emphasizes the tragic filth and mire of the living conditions of the peasants along the border - each hoping to escape the life situations by crossing into the US . He manages to maintain a coarse cinematic effect that enhances the story . Not only Is Lopez in top form , but also she is assisted by a fine cast of fellow actors including Sonia Braga , Juan Diego Botto , Zaide Silvia Gutiérrez , Rene Rivera among others . Yes , the story has been told before , but that only means there are many people who want this contemporary tragedy to end . In one of the features on the DVD we are given addresses and names to contact to help stop this horrendous ' feminicide ' . Take serious note . Grady Harp
Tough Subject , Clumsy Handling , but Fine Acting	TOWELHEAD may have been the successful title of the novel by Alicia Erian on which this daring movie was based , but it seems that the title could have been altered to focus on the real issues writer / director Alan Ball addresses . The audience for a film based on variations of child abuse and racism and prejudice and dismembered parenting and the physical coming of age of our youth may be small , but for those who had the courage to view TOWELHEAD either in the theater release or on DVD , the rewards are plentiful . 13-year-old Jasira ( Summer Bashil in an impressive debut ) lives with her mother Gail ( Maria Bello ) and the live-in boyfriend Barry ( Chris Messina ) until an inappropriate physical advance results in Gail's denial and Jasira is sent to Texas to live with her Lebanese American Christian father Rifat ( Peter Macdissi ) just as Bush's preemptive Iraq War is opening . Transported to a strange world Jasira suffers the prejudices of her holier-than-thou father and in addition to school is forced to get a job babysitting - with the next-door son Zack ( Chase Ellison ) whose parents are redneck bigots Evelyn ( Carrie Preston ) and Travis Vuoso . At the Vuoso's home Jasira discovers Travis ' girlie magazines shared by Zack , and Jasira's burgeoning sexuality emerges . Both at Zack's house and at school Jasira is treated as an outsider ( she is half Arab half American ) and endures verbal abuse from everyone - the only exception is a young African American student Thomas ( Eugene Jones ) who pays attention to her as a beautiful , physically mature young woman . Jasira's need to be loved and to belong leads her into situations that cross borders of proper behavior - both with Thomas and with the predator Travis . Incidents occur as Jasira learns about physical relationships and the only caring deterrent adult is the very pregnant neighbor Melina ( Toni Collette ) who with her husband Gil ( Matt Letscher ) attempt to protect Jasira from abuse . How Jasira copes with her inept parents , the cloud of prejudice , and her approach / avoidance feelings about her sexuality forms the conclusion of the story . Yes , the subject is tough , and yes , there are moments when better writing and better direction could have delineated character development and the presentation of the pertinent incidents could have made the movie more thoroughly acceptable , but given the concept of the film , the actors are each strong enough to make their characters credible . Bashil , Eckhart , Colette , Macdissi , Jones , and Bello are superb as is the supporting cast . This film may take a few years to cool off before it is more widely accepted . It deserves a wider audience who will be willing to face issues the film presents . Grady Harp
For the Actors	TWO FOR THE MONEY takes on the topic of Sports Gambling and makes a serious attempt to turn it into a movie . The story is apparently based on a true one ( as per the opening screen statement ) but it is from the pen of Dan Gilroy that the well-drawn characters are realized . DJ Caruso ( Smallville , The Salton Sea , The Shield ) knows his way around matters such as these and his pacing is fine , allowing for the isolated ' arias ' in the film to work well . The problem , for this viewer , is the topic : how interesting can bilking chronic gamblers over football game wagers possibly be ? The story is related by Brandon Long ( Matthew McConaughey ) who begins life as a sports hero and just at the moment when he is ready to break in to the Pro Football domain , he fractures his leg in a winning touchdown . Six years later , and still dreaming of making it as a player of football , finds him in the numbers game with a talent for picking winning teams and calling 900 numbers to urge gullible people t place bets according to his predictions . Enter Alter Abrams ( Al Pacino ) , a recovering Gambler who is making it big in the sports gambling arena . He coerces Brandon to join him in New York , wines him , dines him with the aid of his smart and beautiful wife Toni ( Rene Russo ) , and in no time Brandon Long takes on the persona of John Anthony and makes it big as a TV personality who successfully bilks willing gambling people out of their money . Long as Anthony takes on a life of his own and it is the conflagration between the creator Abrams and the protégé Anthony that fleshes out the film . Interesting to a point , the story loses steam in the last half and we soon lose interest in the outcome or the characters . And not that that is the fault of the actors ! Al Pacino is very effective as the reformed gambler still fighting demons and Rene Russo is as beautiful as ever , acting her role with complete conviction and holding what is left of the story , once started , together . Matthew McConaughey spends much of the movie without his shirt on which is a major contribution to the visuals of the film ! Buff and beautiful he manages to keep the heart of Brandon Long beating inside the persona of John Anthony . Not a great movie by any means , but some truly fine acting from the trio of stars . The supporting cast also gives solid roles despite the skimpy script . If gambling of any sort , and sports gambling in particular , is of interest to you , then this is a movie to recommend . Otherwise see it for the actors , not the story . Grady Harp
A Colorful , Zesty Extravaganza with Heart from Ramón Salazar	Writer / actor / director Ramón Salazar ( ' Amnèsia ' , ' Piedras ' ) is becoming a formidable presence on the Spanish cinema scene . He takes risks , he knows he takes them , and he makes them turn out in his favor . ' 20 Centimeters ' is a mix of a story that is part hilarious musical comedy and part sensitive character portrayal of people who live just outside the edge of what is cruelly called ' normal ' : the mix makes for a jolly fluffy cake that smacks of Salazar's predecessors Almodóvar and Fellini . Marieta ( the enormously talented Mónica Cervera ) is a work in progress : she dresses as a woman , has breast implants , is on painful steroid injections , but still retains the 20 centimeter remnant that prevents her from becoming the totally feminine woman she desires . She has a heart of gold , works the streets as a prostitute with special gifts to earn money for her transgender surgery . But at home she shares an apartment with a dwarf Tomás ( the very handsome and talented Miguel O'Dogherty ) who squanders Marieta's money on ticket scams that don't work , cares for her friend Berta's ( Concha Galán ) son , and provides emotional support to her fellow sex workers . She has a major problem : she has narcolepsy and falls asleep for several hours at a time in the most inappropriate places ( ! ) and during these sleep periods dreams of Broadway musical numbers occur in which she is the singing ( in Spanish , French and English ) and dancing star with a cast of hundreds in the wildest of costumes ! Marieta yearns for love and when she notices on Raul ( the very hunky and talented Pablo Puyol ) she feels she is in love , especially when Raul returns her attention , takes her home to meet his rather low class gross parents and family , and most importantly physically falls in love with her - AND her 20 centimeter unwanted obstruction to happiness . How Marieta comes to grips with her focal surgical dream versus her chance for love is the tender way the film concludes . Mónica Cervera carries this very difficult role extremely well , not only allowing us to see the inner suffering being she truly is but also popping the cork off the champagne bottle of musical production numbers that pepper this fun movie . The cast is uniformly fine ( Pilar Bardem , the mother of superstar Javier Bardem , has a fine little cameo role ) and the direction show that Ramón Salazar has tight reins on his talent . This is a film that is bawdy fun without ever spilling over into the realm of bad taste . Watching it is a toe-tapping good time ! Grady Harp
Nothing New , Perhaps , But It Is So Much Fun To Watch !	IDLEWILD as conceived , created and directed by Bryan Barber is an all black cast version of the 1930s gangster / prohibition / big crime scene that bubbles over with energy and music and a lot of fun . While the story is not unique by a long shot , the technique of making it comes alive with some of our most talented actors around . Barber wisely incorporates hip hop music ( a nod to his own career and talents of the two stars André Benjamin and Antwan A . ' Big Boi ' Patton ) resembles the way ' Moulin Rouge ' was recently remade using contemporary music for a turn of the century story . It works and polishes off a snappy evening of entertainment The story is an old one : two young boys carry their friendship into adulthood , taking over their fathers ' businesses ( mortician and bootlegging ) and encounter crime bosses , speakeasy snags in Idlewild , Georgia , snarls from wives and lovers , romance , loss of friends , surprise stardom , and learned lessons as they discover their own lives . The cast is overflowing with talent : Ben Vereen , Ving Rhames , Terence Howard , Cicely Tyson , Macy Gray , Malinda Williams , Paula Jai Parker and the gorgeous Paula Patton , to name only a few of the cast of many . The dance numbers are terrific , the music fits in well , and the exuberance displayed by the actors overcomes the rather weak standard of acting that Barber draws from these bonafide stars . For a period piece from the 1930s pepped up with some truly fine choreography and musical numbers , this tasty little film is a winner . Even the added cartooning for once complements the story . It is a film well worth a visit ! Grady Harp
A Film Filed to Overflowing with Stories and Information	' Caterina va in citta ' ( ' Caterina in the Big City ' ) is an Italian film that takes as its storyline the coming of age of a young teenager transported by her family from the quiet Tuscany seaside village of Montaldo Di Castro to the challenging realities of Big City Rome , but that is only the means to an end of exploring Italian politico-social life and its effects on the youth of today . It comes very close to drowning in its own excesses , but at the root of the film is a sensitive tale of a young girl's struggles with growing into an adulthood that puzzles , frightens and challenges her . Caterina ( Alice Teghil ) finds her greatest moments of happiness in her home town singing mezzo soprano in the choir : simple pleasures in a simple setting surrounded by country folk content to live life day to day . Her father Giancarlo ( Sergio Castellitto ) is a teacher who can't hold a job , partially because he is so outspoken and partially because he is a raving truly obnoxious person . Her mother Agata ( Margherita Buy ) is subservient , a woman with few coping mechanisms who allows her odious husband to run an abusive household . Giancarlo's aunt is ill in Rome and with the idea of finding a job where his talents are respected , Giancarlo uproots his little family and moves to the big city . There the social castes are evident and Caterina is judged a country hick until she is befriended by first a rebel who bonds with Caterina , introduces her to tattoos and liquor , and causes a schism between her important mother ( Giancarlo hoped to have is novel published by the woman ) , the daughter and his family . Caterina then is absorbed into the rich and spoiled rank and file of the wealthy , not fitting in until the girls do a make over . That situation is again disrupted by Giancarlo's blindly inappropriate behavior . The true Caterina is somehow lost , still dreaming of becoming a fine mezzo soprano , but tagging along with the crowd du jour . Ultimately Giancarlo's multiple and consistent failures drive him away from the family , he rides off to oblivion on his restored motorbike , and Agata and Caterina both bloom . The noise level of this film is such that it is difficult to watch : the young girls means of communication is a mixture of screaming , loud talking , and fighting and otherwise making us uncomfortable . Yet underneath all of the political and social expose and brandishing is a truly wonderful young Caterina whose life as a soap opera is watched tenderly by an Australian boy who plays the guitar and observes her family from a window across the way from Caterina's Rome home . The moments toward the end of the film when the playback comes justifies the fuss of getting there . This is not a film this viewer would sit through again , but reflecting on the story after all the commotion is over , hearing Mozart's ' Ave Verum Corpus ' and Verdi's ' Nabucco " etc as the inspiration behind Caterina's honest dreams , makes is a more memorable experience . In Italian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' What is unsaid is undone ' : A Country Story	Manuel Gutiérrez Aragón co-authored with Ángeles González Sinde and directed this little tale of life isolated in the Valle de Paz of the Northern Spanish province of Cantabria . The people who live here , herding cattle , farming , and selling milk , are set apart from the outside world - sort of a modern day throw back in time . Families ( ' pasiegos ' ) carry the farm tradition through generations , unchanged until the present . The presence of the European Union has enforced laws about milk production that heightens animosities and competition between families resulting in the crux of this story . Gildo ( Juan Diego ) is grumpy and demanding and has two daughters : Val ( Marta Etura ) who since her mother died has taken over the duties of keeping the house in order as well as doing all the chores to assist her father's dairy production , and Genia ( Clara Lago ) who as the younger one goes to school and spends her time dancing . Gildo's neighbor Severo ( Celso Bugallo ) works his cows alone : his only son Rai ( Luis Tosar ) has left the farm to become a hairdresser in the city . With the EU demands , Severo stands to lose his cows and when Gildo comes to claim his prize milking cow Vanessa , Severo threatens revenge , settling for a payment of the first calf of Vanessa . A year passes and Val takes the new promised calf to Severo , but Severo denies the calf's parentage and in anger ties Val and places her in his barn as prisoner . Gildo traces Val to the place of captivity only to be discovered by Severo while freeing his daughter and a struggle ensues resulting in the death of Severo . Rai returns to the farm for his father's funeral and meets Val : an attraction is mutual . Gildo and Val disagree on telling the police the truth about the death of Severo and when Gildo's paranoia builds , he sends Val to pacify Rai , little knowing that Val is attracted to Rai . Val and Rai slowly fall in love , tension mounts with the EU and the police , and the truth about the death of Severo is revealed , forcing changes in the family of Gildo and in the relationship of Rai and Val . Gildo's prior harsh discipline of his girls meets with understanding and forgiveness from the daughters . The story is simple , quiet , and reminiscent of a pastoral painting with the underlying mystery seemingly no more ominous than storm clouds over the valley . The actors are superb , the pacing is excellent , the cinematography by Gonzalo F . Berridi reveals Cantabria landscapes in a spectacular fashion , and the musical score by Xavier Capellas is wonderfully atmospheric . This is another jewel of a film from Spain and further evidence that Manuel Gutiérrez Aragón is one of Spain's most consistently fine directors . Recommended . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Struggles of a Broken Spirit	Rodolphe Marconi ( ' Love Forbidden ' ) is a director and writer to watch . He has a signature style already ( he is quite young in the industry ) and knows how to use that sensitivity to tell touching stories . LE DERNIER JOUR or THE LAST DAY is a mood piece , spare on dialogue , misty in its depiction of young emotional feelings , challenging in its play with time devices , and ultimately very satisfying for those who enjoy the French manner of film making . Simon ( the very handsome and gifted young actor Gaspard Ulliel of ' A Very Long Engagement ' ) boards a train bound for the coast where he is to spend time in his family's seaside cabin . Most of his ride is spent gazing out the windows at the misty countryside , telling us more about this lonely , lost , vulnerable young eighteen year boy than a thousand words . On the train is a young girl Louise ( Mélanie Laurent ) who seems to be shadowing him . When Simon arrives home he is met by his loving mother Marie ( Nicole Garcia ) , his sister Alice ( Alysson Paradis ) and his father . Louise joins Simon as a guest in his home and his family thinks the two are a couple . Though they sleep in the same bed , Simon's mind and longing are for a lad who lives in the lighthouse , Mathieu ( Thibault Vinçon ) . Simon visits Mathieu , with Louise not far behind , and though we feel a kinship between the two boys , Louise forces her attention on Mathieu and Simon becomes a third party . In a telling moment when the three are in a pub Louise insists that Simon and Mathieu kiss , and that kiss tells a lot about the current state of mind of both boys . Simon becomes isolated , longs for Mathieu who has moved on from their past relationship , an emotional level which is culminated in a visit to Mathieu's home where Simon , alone on Mathieu's bed , re-visits the passion and lust and love for Mathieu in a scene of radiant beauty . Simon's parents argue at all times and this leads to the discovery of a previous affair his mother had , an affair which holds secrets that drive a stake into Simon's relationship to Louise and to his mother's lover who as he visits the mother uncovers significant mysteries . The story ends tragically in a coda suggestive of the beginning of the film . It is stunning . For some the sparse dialogue may prevent the storyline from driving clearly , but in the hands , eyes , and body of Gabriel Ulliel words are wholly unnecessary . If there were no other reason to see this very sensitive film , having the opportunity to observe the talented Ulliel would be sufficient . Recommended viewing , in French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
An Impressive Thriller	Relatively new cinematic team of director Ariel Vromen and writer Joshua Leibner pounce onto the scene with a surprisingly fine little film that has basically gone unnoticed . DANIKA is a story that demands the viewer's careful attention and rewards that attention with a finely wrought surprise ending . This is a tough movie to review : almost anything that is said about it diminishes the impact of a fresh look . Danika ( the superb and grossly underused actress Marisa Tomei ) is a beautiful , well-dressed successful professional woman , loved by her husband Randy ( Craig Bierko ) and her children Kurt ( Kyle Gallner ) , Lauren ( Nicki Prian ) and Brian ( Ridge Canipe ) . Yet even from the opening scenes we can tell something is amiss : Danika ' sees ' disturbing things , terrifying events and people that alter her attention to her job and her family . She visits a young psychiatrist Evelyn ( Regina Hall ) who becomes her confidant - the only person who accepts that Danika is witnessing disturbing sights . A mixture of critical pieces of disastrous events flash before Danika's eyes as well as flashbacks to some years back when her children were young . Danika overcompensates for her fears by being an overprotective mother , an unfortunate trait that begins to fracture her family . The pace of the film changes to rapid fire events as the reasons for Danika's visions become clear : we finally see just what made this brilliant and strong woman the victim of a terrified and disturbed psyche and the manner in which each of the characters in the story impacts this discovery is well-illuminated . The surprise ending scene is a stunner and one that will haunt the viewer . Marisa Tomei makes this very difficult , well-written role completely believable . She is an actress of enormous gifts . Likewise the remainder of the cast offers such fine ensemble work that credit must be given director Ariel Vromen for being a young talent on the rise . Yes , there are some portions of the film that beg credibility but then that is what delusional thinking is about . This is a tight little film that deserves attention . Grady Harp
Romantic Comedy in the True French Manner	It seems when it comes to romantic comedies the French have the corner on the market and technique . APRES VOUS is a bit of pastiche with a storyline that borders on absurd , but in the hands of director Pierre Salvadori it becomes not only an enjoyable farce , but also a tender little statement about compassion . Antoine ( Daniel Anteuil ) is the fastidious and ultra compassionate manager of a high-class restaurant who bends over backwards for his staff , his patrons , and anybody who crosses his path who appears needy . He ends up making his girlfriend Christine ( Marilyne Canto ) take second place to his humanitarian concerns and this puts a strain on his relationship . One evening in a rush to meet Christine he encounters Louis ( José Garcia ) who is in the process of hanging himself in the park , his desired finale to a life of frustration and loss of his girlfriend Blanche ( Sandrine Kiberlain ) . Naturally Antoine rescues him , feeds him , even brings him home , all the while putting his life on hold to help Louis heal his wounds . Louis is most concerned about the loss of Blanche and Antoine immediately commits his efforts to find her , woo her back for Louis ( including revealing Blanche's current boyfriend's infidelity ) - but in the process there develops a mutual attraction between Antoine and Blanche ! Antoine arranges for Louis to get a job at his restaurant despite Louis ' depression and lack of training . Just when everything seems to be turning out for the best , Christine leaves Antoine , and the circumstances surrounding Antoine's salvage of Louis ' life change and the ending is somewhat of a French twist ! The acting is fine , the pacing is fine , the only problem is with the characters themselves : we soon tire of Antoine's absurd selflessness and Louis ' nerdy helplessness and that hampers the identification with these characters . Other than that the film is a brisk , sweet little French farce that leaves you humming . Grady Harp
Amnesia and Confusion and Pseudobiopics	AMNESIA : THE JAMES BRIGHTON ENIGMA ( Amnésie : L'énigme James Brighton ) is an independent Canadian film based on fact , but with alterations of names and places to protect / enhance the real people . The title's two operative words are ' amnesia ' and ' enigma ' because watching this film places the viewer in the uncomfortable position of confusion as to fact and fiction - a state of main that must imitate the art of the story ! The story is a version of an incident that occurred in 1998 : a young nude lad was found in a deserted lot in Montréal , taken to a hospital where he was found to have total amnesia except for the fact that he knows he is gay and he believes his name is ' James Brighton ' . The story is enhanced by a strong script by Bertrand Lachance and Denis Langlois ( who also directs ) and by a cast that is able and convincing , especially the main character James Brighton / Matthew Honeycutt ( Dusan Dukic ) . The grit of the film lies not so much in the storyline ( that becomes fragmented at regular intervals due to the moments of memory return the main character experiences ) , but instead in the manner in which our amnesiac struggles to find his identity , a family , and a sense of belonging . Through the help of social workers , detectives , a gay hotline service , and the media the ' true ' identity is slowly unveiled , but not without some serious setbacks - often presented to us as flashback bits and pieces as to who our amnesiac may be . The transitions between the Montreal scenes and the subsequent scenes in Tennessee ( the apparent home of the amnesiac now known as Matthew Honeycutt ) are choppy with sidebars of Pentecostal church services adding to the confused mix . Yet in the end the pleasure of the film is up to the viewer's interpretation of all the ' facts ' that have been discovered : we are allowed to participate in the enigma . In Québecois , French , and English with variable subtitles . Grady Harp
A Tour de Force for a Fine Cast of Seasoned Actors	THE WALKER ( defined as a man who escorts rich ladies around town in their leisure ) is both a pungent political comment and a fine mystery from Paul Schrader who both wrote and directed this smart film and had the good fortune to surround his tale with a fine cast of actors . It may not be a film for everyone , but it will satisfy viewers who tire of superficial fluff films , allowing time to ponder the way we live and converse today . Carter Page III ( Woody Harelson in one of his finest performances ) is an openly gay , well - heeled , dapper man about town who devotes his life to pleasing the wealthy wives of men in high government levels in Washington , DC . Together with Abby ( Lily Tomlin ) , Natalie ( Lauren Bacall ) , Chrissy ( Mary Beth Hurt ) , and Lynn ( Kristin Scott Thomas ) the group gossips , plays canasta in an expensive hotel parlor , and confides secrets that are surefire rumor fodder . Lynn is escorted by Carter to her lover's home for a tryst only to find the lover murdered . Carter attempts to protect Lynn from scandal only to become implicated himself . Carter discovers secrets about his own insecurities , and while he is solidly supported by his lover Emek ( the excellent Moritz Bleibtreu ) , an artist of strange works that prove subtle background connotations of the mystery that is unwinding , he must face the realities of his decision when confronting husbands , lawyers , police , and intelligence agents ( portrayed by such fine actors as Ned Beatty , Willem Defoe , William Hope and Geff Francis ) . The story is , in many ways , an examination of the corruption in Washington , DC - a fact that may explain why it did not enjoy a long theater run . For viewers who appreciate fine dialogue and a smart story with well-delineated characters portrayed by superb actors , this is a film that should not be neglected . Grady Harp
' Have yourself a merry little Christmas ' . . . with the Stone family !	Thomas Bezucha ( ' Big Eden ' ) is a writer / director willing to address social issues in a setting where the issues become secondary to his characters . Though he is not polished as yet ( Big Eden was a fine little film but hardly the credentials to be put in front of a cast a famous actors ! ) , his heart is in the right place and he does have a penchant for finding comedy in the strangest places and allowing the viewer to embrace any of many issues about which he is talking . THE FAMILY STONE is a double play on words : Stone happens to be the name of a very weird and maladapted family finding conflicts blooming at Christmas , but the ' stone ' also refers to the wedding ring of the mother's mother which is to be passed to the favorite son upon his engagement . Sybil ( Diane Keaton ) and Kelly ( Craig T . Nelson ) are the ' new generation ' parents of a family of assorted siblings : pothead Ben ( Luke Wilson ) , angry single Amy ( Rachel McAdams ) , hearing impaired and gay Thad ( Tyrone Giordano ) partnered with African American Patrick ( Brian White ) , married and pregnant Susannah ( Elizabeth Reaser ) , and the poster boy eldest son Everett ( Dermot Mulroney ) . The nidus of the story is Everett bringing uptight / bright / beautiful / critical Meredith Morton ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) home for the holiday to announce their engagement . No one likes opinionated Meredith and her uncomfortable ' welcome ' triggers maladaptive behavior from everyone . Feeling isolated Meredith invites her sister Julie ( Claire Danes ) to join her as comfort , an act which opens the family to Julie's warmth and drives Meredith to a night of drinking and letting her hair down with the very mellow Ben . How these incidents intertwine and result in changes in all of the family members is the crux of the story . Along the rocky way Bezucha addresses gay partner infant adoption , fear of relationships , the impact of impending death , following the heart in love instead of the expected route of a family expectations , etc . There are just a few too many subplots to make the film digest well and employing a bit of Keystone Cops slapstick in the kitchen on Christmas morning sort of pushes the overstuffed bird over the edge . Yet with a cast like this the characters , unlikely though they may be , are brought into reality : Parker , Danes , Keaton , Wilson , Nelson , McAdams etc keep things flying . If the final curtain ( the Christmas a year later showing the results of all the changes ) is a bit too sappy , blame it on the season . This is not a great movie but a movie with heart from a writer / director who is unafraid to call attention to our human foibles . Grady Harp
The Kernel of Decay Beneath the Façade of Opulence	Yimou Zhang once again produces a work that retains his position as one of the master builders of contemporary cinema . His ability to capture an intricate story historically based in a setting of splendor is up there with the great filmmakers . CURSE OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER is no exception . The time of the story is the Tang Dynasty , one of the more corrupt and cruel periods in Chinese history . Emperor Ping ( Chow Yun Fat ) has married a princess from the neighboring province , becoming Empress Phoenix ( Gong Li ) and in addition to becoming stepmother to the Emperor's firs-born son ( Ye Liu ) , she bears him two additional sons ( Jay Chou and Junjie Qin ) . Attending the palace is a doctor ( Dahong Nim ) and his wife ( Jin Chen ) who figure significantly in the family's destiny . Each of these dysfunctional family members has secrets that could destroy an empire . The Empress is clearly the titular head of the kingdom and her wily manipulations and incestuous relationships are controlled only by her doses of a medicine that is supposed to make her insane . The boils on the body of the ruling family fester until great wars break out and the royal family is revealed to be the strangely bizarre group they are . The story works ( though admittedly it is often difficult to follow ) because of a brilliant cast and a pacing from the director that almost matches the glory of the visual production that seems to keep growing on the screen , like a huge garden bearing more color and moods as the story progresses . Yimou Zhang is a visual artist and choreographer but he is also a man with the gift of finding the cores of his characters beneath all the glorious trappings of this films . Grady Harp
Surprisingly Entertaining Romantic Comedy	El Amor perjudica seriamente la salud ( Love Can Seriously Damage Your Health ) is a smartly written and produced Spanish Romantic Comedy dating back to 1996 when two of the ' stars ' ( Penélope Cruz and Javier Bardem ) were barely known : of course now , their names add enormous credibility to the DVD issue on today's market . Written and directed by Manuel Gómez Pereira , this is a tale of a boy / man and girl / woman who meet in a slapstick situation in the 1960s when the Beatles were all the rage , fall in love , part and have recurrent meetings over the next thirty years under varying circumstances that prove to be both humorous and sensitive . In the mid 1960s there is a reception for the King of Spain and in the hotel site of the reception we encounter a bellboy Santi ( Gabino Diego ) and an over the top Beatle's fan Diana ( Penélope Cruz ) whose antics include hiding under John Lennon's bed as he makes love to a local trollop , much to the chagrin of the smitten Diana . The two lock in an attraction and over the ensuing years , each becomes married with family in various forms of devotion and fidelity , and as adults Santi ( Juanjo Puigcorbé ) and Diana ( the gorgeous Ana Belén ) continue to have mutual assignations in the most bizarre of circumstances . In the end the repeated replay love affairs take their toll and the two eventually manage to proceed with getting on with their married lives with a degree of normalcy . . . or do they ? The flavor of the various passing decades during which Santi and Diana meet is well captured by the director , the scenic designer , the musical score and by the quartet of superb actors . At times , especially in the beginning , the film seems as though it is going to be a slapstick comedy , one that could become tiresome given the subject matter . But just when madcap 60s pass the tone of the film takes on a more sophisticated stance , dealing with serious issues of lust , infidelity , abuse of power , commitment to family and political changes . It all works surprisingly well and the film ends like a 1940s enduring love story . There are numerous bit parts my serious actors , not the least of which is a split moment by an unknown Javier Bardem who even in that twinkle of time gives evidence of the gifted actor he has become . The very young Penélope Cruz likewise proves not only her early comedic gifts , but shows us that even as a beginner she has electric screen presence . A fun and tender little diversion of a film . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
War And Other Inequalities As Seen Through A Child's Eyes	Some unsuspecting films carry a message that resonates in the hours and days after viewing . Such is the case for CAROL'S JOURNEY ( EL VIAJE DE CAROL ) , a beautifully crafted 2002 film from Spain based on the novel ' A boca de noche ' by Ángel García Roldán who also adapted the book as a screenplay . War and its consequences are not new subject matter for films , but when that war theme plays in the background as a subtle driving force to develop characters ( especially children ) who must face adult life influenced by the games of adults , the result is a different and more tender examination of the coming of age film genre . Carol ( Clara Lago ) is a 12-year-old Spanish American youngster from New York who with her critically ill mother Aurora ( María Barranco ) returns to her Aurora's home in 1938 at the height of the Spanish Civil War , a home that has been left deserted by her father Don Amalio ( Álvaro de Luna ) since his wife's death . Carol's father Robert ( Ben Temple ) is a fighter pilot who has sided with the Republicans against Franco and is rarely with his family . Aurora has a past : she left her lover Alfonso ( Alberto Jiménez ) to marry Robert , and Alfonso in turn married Aurora's cold sister Dolores ( Lucina Gil ) . Carol is an independent girl who remains aloof to all but her grandfather Don Amalio until she meets others her age but not of her ' class ' : Tomiche ( Juan José Ballesta ) and his two friends at first resent Carol , but as events develop Carol and Tomiche are bonded by what feels like the first awakenings of love . When Aurora dies of her illness , Carol must live with Alfonso and Dolores and their daughter Blanca ( Luna McGill ) , yet turns to her grandfather for support and to her mother's best friend and teacher Maruja ( the always radiant Rosa Maria Sardà ) to understand the disparity between classes and the senseless war that keeps her beloved father from her side . Through a series of incidents Carol and Tomiche learn the rigors of becoming adults , facing more traumas in a brief period of the war than most of us experience in a lifetime . The ending , though sad , is uplifting as Carol's journey to maturity is complete . The film is shot in Galicia and Portugal and contains some extraordinarily beautiful settings captured with gentle sensitive lighting by cinematographer Gonzalo F . Berridi and enhanced by the musical score by Bingen Mendizábal . Director Imanol Uribe understands the fine line separating pathos from bathos , and in electing to concentrate the story on the children involved , he makes an even stronger statement about the futility and cruelty of war . The cast is exceptional : the stars clearly are young Clara Lago and Juan José Ballesta , but they are supported by the fine veteran actors in the adult roles . This is a visually stunning work with a lasting message and should find a much larger audience than it has to this date . Grady Harp
A Powerful Little Film That Examines Prejudice , Bigotry , and Color-blind Love	PARALLEL SONS is a very fine piece of work , a film ahead of its time , a film that may yet surface in the theaters since the success of ' Brokeback Mountain ' . It deserves that kind of attention . Writer Director John G . Young ( The Reception ) takes on razor-sharp issues , molds them in a natural , non-exploitational way , and finishes his message with a calm clap of thunder . This little film contains more food for thought and hopefully for discussion than most of the last ten years since it was first released . Seth Carlson ( Gabriel Mann ) lives in the Adirondacks in a little town closed off form progressive society . He is a gentle soul , a closeted gay out of necessity , a budding artist and a young man infatuated with African American culture , so much so that he wears his blond hair in dread locks and paints muscular Black men and African American symbols . His father barely tolerates his oddities , his little sister shares his secrets , and Seth longs to leave the choking little town for New York City . Seth briefly views a Black man in custody in the sheriff's car : an eye to eye connect occurs . That night in the diner in which Seth works the Black man Knowledge Johnson ( Laurence Mason ) sneaks into the diner and robs Seth at gunpoint , only to collapse from a wound inflicted during his escape from a correctional facility . Seth is drawn to Knowledge , and when Knowledge faints , Seth sequesters him in a little cabin where he nurses him back to health . In the process of the healing the two men bond and become sexually committed to each other . Knowledge sees his only hope for survival as an outlaw being an escape across the Canadian border and the two plan for this adventure , Seth suffering setbacks from a town turned against him , and it is in the escape attempt that the tragedies occur that leave the story with many subtexts . The film is beautifully shot by Matthew M . Howe and scored by Emile Menasche , but it is the acting skills of Mann and Mason that allow director Young to make this understated film work so well . The supporting cast is also very good , each underplaying roles to the benefit of the progression toward the devastating ending . By remaining to a sensitive story , economically written for the screen , Young is able to bring the audience to face some frighteningly real issues about bigotry and prejudice that tangentially includes color and sexuality . Highly recommended , Grady Harp
A Remarkable Depiction of a Perplexing Coups	Marco Bellocchio takes a lot of chances in his films , examining human behavior in the face of dissension whether political , moral , or emotional . In ' Buongiorno , notte ' ( ' Good Morning , Night ' ) he studies the infamous 1978 kidnapping of Aldo Moro in what would be a situation that would raise as many questions as it gave answers - and it is that quality that Bellocchio has captured in his film . The facts of the Italian political current in 1978 may not be understood by the general viewer , but suffice it to say that the ruling political party Democrazia Cristiana was challenged by the Red Brigade , the underground terrorists who kidnapped and killed President Aldo Moro in a coups that was eventually destroyed by the reigning powers . That much of a plot is all that is necessary to know . The bulk of the film revolves around the lives of the kidnappers , especially the sole woman Chiara ( Maya Sansa ) who with her compatriots hid the President in a tiny room with the threat of death , but also were influenced by the writings and conversations with Moro . The whole question of revolution is under close inspection . The story mixes documentary shots with the cinematography in a tasteful way of showing us the elements of the kidnapping and the aftermath . It is the reaction of Chiara to these events and the questioning that can disrupt the political leanings of revolutionaries that makes this story so very meaningful . The cast is superb : Maya Sansa , Pier Giorgio Bellocchio , Giovanni Calcagno , Luigi Lo Cascio and Paolo Briguglia as the kidnappers , and Roberto Herlitzka as Aldo Moro are convincing and human . The script does have holes in it where formation of ideas and acts and incidents are vague , but it almost seems as though that is the intention of Bellocchio . In political upheaval nothing is black and white if the events are related through individual's eyes rather that through the reaction of the mobs . And this is what makes the film so fine , if a bit hard to follow .
Triumph of the Human Spirit : Artists in a Time of War	' Laissez-passer ' ( Safe Conduct ) is an epic film not of the giant battlefield scenes type , but of the inner humanity placed in jeopardy during war times . Director Bernard Tavernier has been making important films since the 1960s and here directs a story by Jean Cosmos and Jean-Devaivre that explores the survival of writers and actors and filmmakers during the German occupation of Paris in World War II . The result is an intensely rich examination of that period of time when the French Resistance successfully and bravely struggled against the Nazi invaders : yet another result is a film that is so long that it calls for an entire evening's concentration on a story that begs to be edited . Based on a true story of screenwriter Jean Aurenche ( Denis Podalydès ) , firm in his conviction that he would never write in support of the Nazi regime , and director Jean Devaivre ( Jacques Gamblin ) who opted for complying on the surface with a film production company headed by the German occupiers while retaining his firm stance as part of the French Resistance , the story involves a large cast who portray actors , production people , friends , victims , Germans , etc and the plot is at times so convoluted that you may need to pause and backup to make sure you have not lost any important information . The actors are outstanding and the complete production crew of this film has created a tense , atmospheric , intelligent tale that makes the audience respect even more the incredible bravery of the French Resistance movement . This is brilliant film-making - it just goes on a bit too long at 2 hours and 45 minutes ! Grady Harp , September 05
Crossroads : Enter the Corporate World Versus Enter the World of Living	Kevin Noland makes a fine debut in both writing and directing this colorful , insightful , low-key exploration of the age old Apollonian Dionysian conflict . For a first film , despite some minor technical glitches ( overexposed photography at key moments , a soundtrack that eats the dialogue before it is audible ) , Noland proves himself a keen observer of life , of philosophy , and of character studies . He is definitely an artist to watch . Chris McKinley ( Joshua Jackson in yet another fine performance ) has just finished college and is ending his summer holiday in Spain with only three days before he returns to an important corporate position in the US . He is traveling with two friends , Ryan ( Timm Sharp ) and Michelle ( Ruthanna Hopper ) who are lovers , and they end their holiday in Pamplona , Spain just as the festival of the bulls is happening . Chris ' backpack is stolen and with it his passport , credit cards , all semblances of civilization . . . , and he plunges out of despair into the wildness of the running of the bulls . He meets two important influences : American expatriate bar owner Riccardo who spouts forth ' live for the moment ' concepts , and the beautiful and intoxicating Adela ( Leonor Varela ) who embodies all that is fascinating about the beauty of Spain . The four young people set out on a hike to fly fish , carouse , and live with nature , and this excursion into Spain's gorgeous countryside affects the foursome : Ryan and Michelle decide to part ways and Chris and Adela . . . well , the story has a fine ending ! Noland respects the viewer and offers his tale of discovery with minimal dialogue , some terrific music , exciting footage of the running of the bulls and bullfights , and some hallucinogenic views of nature . Both Joshua Jackson and Leonor Varela light up the screen . Ruthanna Hopper ( Dennis Hopper's daughter ) not only acts well , she also has been part of this project since its inception , is one of the producers , and adds a credibility to the story . So despite the occasional technical flaws , this is a little film of joy , a celebration of discovery the important facts of living . Grady Harp
The Horror of an Avenging Mind	While the current trend in scary movies seems to be becoming the property of the Computer Generated Graphics industry , real terror comes from studying the possibilities of a human mind scarred by trauma . Such is the material that makes ALREADY DEAD a frightening film - a revenge story by Robert Lynn Archer transformed for the screen by Joe Chappelle and directed imaginatively by Joe Otting . If the theme of a citizen taking justice into his own hands is not new , it wears well enough when we consider the current state of criminal justice as portrayed in the media today . Thomas Archer ( Ron Eldard ) is living a successful , happy life until a burglary associated with the death of the babysitter and his son and the beating of his wife disrupts everything . Thomas is informed that the police don't have the manpower to investigate the killings , a fact that further enrages Thomas who is unable to work or function in his grief state . He is referred to a therapist Dr . Heller ( Christopher Plummer ) who oddly counsels him that perhaps the only way Thomas can get on with his life is to do everything in his power to track the killer down on his own . ' Arrangements ' are made with a group of men ( mostly frustrated cops ) who inform Thomas that for a large fee they will take him to the killer and he can act on his vengeance . Transported by cellphone instructions to a deserted warehouse , Thomas encounters a bound and gagged man ( Til Schweiger ) who he is told is the killer of his son . Thomas begins his torture of the man only to gradually discover that the man does not bear the arm tattoo Thomas had clearly seen on the perpetrator . Dr . Heller is called to the scene and encourages Thomas to kill the suspect , but Thomas has enough doubt that he frees the suspect and together they begin a terrifying journey out of the maze-like warehouse . The ending may not come as a complete surprise , but it is the telling of the story as basically a character study between the two men that makes the film powerful . Both Ron Eldard and Til Schweiger are completely convincing in their not so disparate roles : they both have very strong screen presences and with minimal dialog manage to take us , the audience , along with this creepy ' game ' . There is some violence to be sure , but the terror of the film emanates more from the interaction of Eldard and Schweiger , each showing the extremes the bruised psyche can display . Not a great film but a film far above the routine ' horror picture ' category . Grady Harp
If you've got it , Flaunt it !	SHOOT ' EM UP is well named : this is a whompingly good action movie that is as much parody of its genre as it is a good story . It never for a moment takes itself seriously and it is played by a strong cast of top-drawer actors having a terrific time . Writer / director Michael Davis has found his niche and let's hope their will be more dark comedies that are as much fun to watch as this one . The story is negligible : lone man Smith ( Clive Owen at his best ) observes a pregnant woman in chased distress , delivers her baby , then finishes off the huge gang of bad guys who are in pursuit , taking the newborn boy to transient safety . Smith finds a lactating prostitute Donna ( beautiful Monica Bellucci ) , takes her from her business of kinky sex and makes her the baby's surrogate mother . A smarmy gangster Hertz ( Paul Giamatti in another career forming role ) , connected to an illicit arms manufacturer Hammerson ( Stephen McHattie ) , is in pursuit of both Smith and the baby for reasons that are finally disclosed : the baby is part of a ring of potential bone marrow donors for an important Senator . The ending is , well , an ending . But it is the getting there that is all the fun . The dialog is peppered with hilarious one-liners that have a real edge and the methods of the endless killings include several using the carrot that Smith keeps at hand as a weapon . The shootings are fast and impossible but actually hilarious in the choreography . Clive Owen plays the role straight , with a real gift for humor as well as action . Paul Giamatti is a sinister delight and able to match Owens one-liner for one-liner . Monica Bellucci makes her impossible role credible and as always is gorgeous to look at ! This is a fast paced , finely written and acted parody - definitely deserving of the comic book title ! Grady Harp
From Both Sides of the River : A Comedy / Drama about Friendship	PUNTO Y RAYA ( ' A Dot and a Line ' ) is a touching little film from Venezuela , a movie with low budget and high aspirations that manages to explore friendship and bonding between two warring factions in a most sensitive way . Director Elia Schneider and writer Henry Herrera deserve their 2005 Oscar consideration for Best Foreign Film , Venezuela and we can hope this talented team partners for other outings . Shot with a digital camera that bleeds the color to almost black and white , the production values may at first put off the audiences used to either classy black and white movies or richly colored ones , but this slight flaw should not deter the enthusiastic craftsmanship on the part of everyone involved in making this terrific little film . The film opens and closes with battle scenes , setting the tension that exists along the river that divides Venezuela from Colombia , two countries who not only have the innate political differences but also are involved in the internationally significant war on drugs - primarily cocaine and its many derivatives . Cheito ( Roque Valero ) is a young small time but smart and wily drug dealer from Caracas who is captured by the police and ' sentenced ' to the Venezuelan army to patrol the border of Colombia . He has a beautiful sister Yosmar ( Daniela Alvarado ) whom he protects like a watchdog . Simultaneously a serious , naive , conservative young Colombian named Pedro ( the hunky and very fine Edgar Ramirez ) , ' saving himself ' for his beloved girlfriend Lutecia ( Daniela Bascope ) , volunteers for the Colombian army to combat drugs and fight the guerrillas responsible for the drug trafficking along the border . Through a continuing series of circumstances Cheito and Pedro are thrown together and it is Cheito's cunning and ' smarts ' that keep the two men surviving - though at most time they are personally at odds . Their involvement in the drug cartels they engage and the varying sides of the two armies they dodge result in some hilarious comic bits . In their quieter moments the illiterate Pedro asks Cheito to read his letters from his Lutecia and write return correspondence - a chance for Cheito to voice his warped libidinous nature unknown to the naive Pedro . The two young men bond , survive dangerous situations , and eventually find some quirky changes in their plans for the future . The ending of the film is both sad and tender : by the time the story is over we have taken the two misfit buddies into our hearts . Both Roque Valero and Edgar Ramirez are strong actors and manage to make credible this complex relationship that vacillates between enemy and comrade . They create a chemistry on screen that makes the movie work very well indeed . Not only is the story an entertaining one , it also gives an insight to the magnitude of the drug problems that cruelly determine lifestyles in South America . While it never preaches , it delivers strong messages for outsiders to consider . And in the end it is a very fine little film that deserves audience wide attention . Grady Harp
A Suspense Thriller That Keeps Us Running - for the Secrets	On the surface RUNNING SCARED is just another action flick with lots of expletives , violence , bloodshed , trauma , and car chases . But attempt to put the movie on ' slow forward ' and this hundred miles an hour paced film has a fine sense of pacing and excellent experimental photography , AND a cast that is up to it . Writer / Director knows this genre well and offers up a polished little frightening film . Joey Gazelle ( Paul Walker , finally given a role in which he proves he indeed can act and carry a film ! ) lives with his wife ( Vera Farmiga ) and son ( Alex Neuberger ) and is an apparent mob flunky who hides weapons in his basement to protect the mob . But when one certain pistol , used in severely wounding a cop , is recovered by the next door neighbor's kid Oleg ( Cameron Bright ) and is used against his abusive Russian father Anzor ( Karel Roden , a terrific character actor as well as fine eye candy ) , the chase begins : Joey must recover the gun at all costs and it is this wild crash of violent events involving mobs , bad cops ( Chaz Palminteri ) , hookers and child molesters that frames the course of the film . And to top it off there is a fine surprise ending . Paul Walker is excellent and it is good to see a film that is a worthy challenge for his talent as an actor . The entire cast of supporting actors , while they do little but be violent , is fine and the cinematography by Jim Whitaker is creative ( at times a bit too creative bordering on kitsch ! ) and musical score my Mark Isham complete the compelling atmosphere of this surprisingly exciting film . Grady Harp
The Way We Were : Sportsmanship in the 1950s	THE MIRACLE MATCH ( released rather unsuccessfully in the theaters as THE GAME OF THEIR LIVES ) is yet another one of those feel good movies that dwells on the concept that the problems of humanity can be resolved on the playing field . And that is not a bad metaphor : wouldn't it be great if current world problems could be worked out under the guidelines of teamwork ? The film is a heartwarming look at the true story of a 1950's event when a US Soccer team was created in St . Louis , Missouri , the core of the team being from Italian families in the La Montagna area of St . Louis and augmented from teams across the country , traveled to Brazil and defeated the English team in the World Cup Soccer event - a fact that startled the sports world . The St . Louis boys include Gerard Butler ( yes , the film was made in 2005 and yet Butler looks younger and speaks without his brogue ) , Jay Rodan , Costas Mandylor , Louis Mandylor , Zachery Ty Bryan , Jimmy Jean-Louis , Richard Jenik and Nelson Vargas . They all do well , giving us the feeling that they are fully attuned to the story . The other actors ( including a bit part by Patrick Stewart ) handle their rather weakly written parts adequately . The problem with the film , though probably quite accurate in reporting a true incident ( the real and surviving original players form the team are included in the rather corny ending ) , is that we really don't get to know the personalities of the team players well enough to create a successful drama . The majority of the film is shot during soccer games and that becomes monotonous to those of us who are not soccer devotees . But given that problem , the film has a sweetness about it and an honesty that while bordering on saccharine does indeed emphasize the team spirit needed to conquer all odds . And in the end it is worth watching to view Gerard Butler in yet another type of character : the actor is well on the rise ! Grady Harp
A Fine Little Film That Is Particularly Important Today !	MY SON THE FANATIC is a small scale film made in 1998 about the problems of cross culture assimilation between Pakistanis and the British - or rather between Muslim and Christian - that packs a powerful punch in the understanding of current clashes similar to the film's story that are so keenly in focus today . Based on a short story by Hanif Kureishi ( who also adapted the story to a screenplay ) and directed by the highly respected Udayan Prasad , this film is blessed with a fine cast of actors who make some of the more improbable aspects quite warmly credible . Parvez ( the always fine Om Puri ) slept through his Muslim education in Pakistan and moved to England with his wife Minoo ( Gopi Desai ) where he has been a taxi cab driver for 25 years while his co-immigrants such as his best friend Fizzy ( Harish Patel ) have become rich entrepreneurs . Parvez and Minoo have a young son Farid ( Akbar Kurtha ) who is a bit unsettled as a Pakistani adjusting to life in capitalistic England and has found a girlfriend Madeline ( Sarah-Jane Potts ) who happens to be the daughter of the Chief Police Inspector Fingerhut ( Geoffrey Bateman ) . Despite the fact that Parvez and his wife would prefer Farid marry a Pakistani girl they consent to an engagement party , a turning point for the politically tenuous Farid . When Farid observes how the Fingerhut family snubs his Pakistani parents and background he explodes and instead joins a fundamentalist Muslim group , pledging his life to stamping out porn , drugs , evil , etc . Parvez attempts reconciliation with his wildly fanatical son but the only person with whom he can communicate is a hooker named Bettina / Sandra ( Rachel Griffiths ) who has a heart of gold and is only in the Profession to make enough money to become a teacher . Parvez is a driver for a pimp service and he is assigned to escort a wealthy smarmy German Schitz ( Stellan Skarsgård ) through a series of encounters , encounters that involve Bettina among others . But along the way Bettina softens to Parvez , listens to his anguish about his son , and eventually becomes Parvez ' paramour . When Farid's fundamentalist group is attacking the brothel where Bettina works he discovers his father's situation and is enraged : Parvez , Farid and Minoo must come to an understanding - and it is this manner of coping that provides a very touching ending to the film . The story holds its own as a movie , but the underlying content is pungent , intelligent , perceptive , insightful and very cogent . Each member of the cast is excellent but Om Puri proves once again that he can carry a film with a questionable character strongly on his shoulders . Not only is this a fine little comedy drama to watch , it also provides some serious food for thought . Grady Harp
A Song Without Words	' El Cielo dividido ' ( BROKEN SKY ) is a daring , experimental film from Mexican writer / director Julián Hernández and as such it is bound to polarize audiences . Some will fault the film for self-indulgence while others will praise the bravery of a film of this topic to come from a country not exactly known for its flexible social attitudes . Julián Hernández focuses on the history of a first love and without using dialogue he tells his story simply with silent actors , minimal narrative comments which serve as program notes , music , and ravishingly beautiful photographic composition . Gerardo ( Miguel Ángel Hoppe ) opens the film , a solo youth wandering what appears to be the streets of Mexico City finally ending up in an open amphitheater where his eye glimpses another lone youth Jonas ( Fernando Arroyo ) sitting staring into space . Gerardo wanders over to him , sits beside him , gains the courage to touch his shoulder , Jonas responds glowingly - and love begins . Through the next scenes we find the couple making love both in bed and in unexpected public places including the stacks of the library of the school where they both are students - and where another pair of eyes enters : Sergio ( Alejandro Rojo ) watches longingly as Gerardo and Jonas kiss and display an aura of passion Sergio obviously longs for . The new couple share many experiences , all bathed in love , until they eventually go to a disco : Jonas dances with an enchanted Bruno ( Ignacio Pereda ) and a trace of chemistry is generated , a fact that Gerardo , watching the boys dance , senses and is disturbed . A crack is created in their bliss and that crack only widens as they each have mixed responses to what they perceive is escaping . Gerardo encounters the winsome Sergio and the two bond physically , a fact that forces Jason to reevaluate his initial feelings for Gerardo . All of this story is told without dialogue of words but with a very strong dialogue of eyes . Director Hernández seems to want to share how love is an internalized emotion , only demonstrated with physical intimacy , but fragile as a newborn in its vulnerability to wounds . Cinematographer Alejandro Cantú finds stunning settings and lighting and sensitive explorations of love making that never exceed tasteful states . His manner of showing time elapsing is to pan walls within a room that serve as flashbacks and flash-forwards as a means of carrying the story forward . Film editor Emiliano Arenales Osorio uses some very creative techniques to keep the viewer guessing as to whether we are observing fact , fantasy , present or past . And the musical score by Arturo Villela deftly maintains the minimalist stance with simple phrases by cello , harpsichord , and violin , saving the passion expression for the use of Dvorák in Rusalka's ' Song to the Moon ' as ravishingly sung by Renée Fleming All of those praises being said , the major reason this film doesn't retain an audience base is its length : it is 140 minutes long , repetitive , and would have been much more powerful had it been cut to 90 minutes at best . It is far too visually stunning a piece of work to step beyond the patience of an audience happy to see the birth and blossoming and challenges of a first love between two beautiful young men . The actors are indeed a pleasure to watch , but in this case less is more . One wonders what Julián Hernández will create next . He deserves applause for this experimental film but hopefully will learn from its tendency toward self-indulgence . Grady Harp
Credit Where Credit is Due : The Real Stars of a Fine Movie	EIGHT BELOW is a satisfying film on every level : the story is excellent ( based on fact ) , the script is good , the direction by Frank Marshall is tight and fast paced for a two hour film , the scenery is spectacular and the cast is committed and well chosen . But the real stars of this film are the eight wondrous dogs who for much of the film carry the entire story of being on their own in the Antarctica winter for five plus months - and for the most part surviving through bonding and obvious devotion to each other . They are splendid - beautiful to watch in action and touching to observe in their interaction . But the dogs alone could not have made this happen without the other true stars of the picture - the dog trainers . They deserve mention , so here they are : Michael Alexander and Sally Jo Sousa are the main trainers and are well supported by Tammy Blackburn , Tracy Gardhouse , Thomas L . Gunderson , Rowan Harland , Trish Judd , Dea Valentin Kristensen , Grace McLeod , Scott Rowe , Andrew Simpson , Cherie Smith and Tim Williams . There ! The kudos go to them and their names are buried in the credits . The story is one of dedication and devotion of a group of sledders in the Antarctica who take researchers , such as Doctor McLaren ( Bruce Greenwood ) who is looking for a meteorite from Mercury , on their missions . The main dog lover and trainer is Jerry ( Paul Walker in one of his best performances ) and he is assisted by Katie ( Moon Bloodgood ) and Coop ( Jason Biggs ) . When Jerry is out with the eight dogs taking Doctor McLaren to fine his meteorite , a major storm arises and the dogs and the two men barely make it back to the station , McLaren suffering a broken leg and saved by the bravery of the dogs and Jerry . The crew must evacuate and Jerry insists the dogs be taken out with them , but he is promised that the pilot Katie will return for them , a deed which goes unkept because of the severe weather . The dogs are left to fend for themselves and Jerry is heartbroken , making every feasible attempt to rescue them . By films ends we have witnessed the miracle of survival of the dogs and a demonstration of the profound bonding between man and animal . This film may seem slight from the photo on the DVD , but it is one of those family oriented films that breaks barriers and delivers on a grand scale some very important emotional content . The cast is excellent ( the dogs of course being the main characters ) . The production values are superb except for a strangely mawkish score by Mark Isham . Well worth your time and attention .
A Long , Dark Journey in the Soul of Greed and Power	Upton Sinclair's epic novel OIL ! has been successfully transformed to a film by screen writer / director Paul Thomas Anderson ( ' Magnolia ' , ' Boogie Nights ' , etc ) . The film is a long song ( 158 minutes ) , covering a fascinating span of time in turn of the century California when oil gained the lure of gold and transformed the land and the people into creatures of capitalism and greed and lust , and were it not for the presence of Daniel Day-Lewis ' powerful performance as the man who makes it all happen , the story itself would become tiresome . It doesn't . Daniel Plainview ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) is a silver miner in 1898 , but soon discovers oil and begins on a mission to become wealthy , owning most of the oil fields from the mountains of central California to the Pacific Ocean . With his medicine man manner of getting people to do what he wants he pursues his greed relentlessly , disrupting small sleepy towns like Little Boston as he gains access to the wealth of the black gold . There are odd characters along the way , such as the evangelist Eli Sunday ( Paul Dano ) who become crushable clods beneath Plainview's boots . The progress of the story is well known to most : it is the telling of the tale in the hands of wholly credible , completely physically immersed Daniel Day-Lewis that makes the story seem new . The film's grimy atmosphere is well presented in Robert Elswit's cinematography and the odd musical score by Jonny Greenwood is as ominous as the vantage of Plainview . Greenwood elects to weave classical works into the fabric of the film : when young HW falls deaf after an explosion the silence is partnered by one of Arvö Pärt's ' Fratres ' , and the film's credits are displayed over the Anne Sophie Mutter / von Karajan recording of Brahms ' Violin Concerto . Strange bedfellows , yes , but entirely appropriate to the overall mood of the film . The journey is long and depressing , but the power of Day-Lewis ' performance is magic . Grady Harp
' Tis the gift to be simple . . .	On the surface WAITRESS is a simple , honest , unpretentious , funny , tender , and sensitive film about simple people in a small Southern town : it is the core of the film , the examination of individual's choices , consequences , rights , and fraternity that makes the little Indie so special . And another feature that adds a dimension of significance to the movie is that actress / writer / director Adrienne Shelly did not live to see the magic she created : Shelly was murdered in November 2006 , a loss of a superb budding talent . Using a very small cast of characters WAITRESS takes place in a Pie Diner , owned by the crusty and demanding Old Joe ( Andy Griffith ) , managed by the grumpy Cal ( Lew Temple ) , and run by three waitresses - frumpy little Dawn ( Adrienne Shelly ) looking for love , been-there-done-that Becky ( Cheryl Hines ) whose married to a drooling waste , and Jenna ( Keri Russell ) , an unhappily married ( to Earl - Jeremy Sisto ) pie maker expert who longs to leave her marriage but has just discovered she is pregnant . She comes under the care of the OB-GYN Dr . Pomatter ( Nathan Fillion - also married ) and in the course of her care the two fall in love . How Jenna manages to cope with the disruptive pregnancy and the other waitresses deal with their simple lives is the crux of the story . And while this simple plot lone doesn't appear to offer much , the manner in which it is written and acted makes is a little jewel . Many are touting the emergence of Keri Russell as a serious actress as the reason for seeing this film , but the real genius behind the honest simplicity of the story is the sadly deceased Adrienne Shelly . She will be missed . In a series of fitting homages the featurettes add to the DVD version of this film . Grady Harp
Turning Points	EIGHTEEN as written and directed by Richard Bell may have a few too many stories to tell simultaneously for a 102 minute movie to completely succeed , but there is such a fine sense of commitment on the part of all the cast and crew that the viewer ends up wanting the movie to work - and so it does . Yes , aspects could have been finessed if the producers had more money to spend on the final cut , but as a small independent movie from Canada this is a tender , gently humorous , very touching tale about vulnerability and communication and commitment . It works on many levels . In a very well choreographed opening we are voyeurs at a family dinner where obviously something has gone awry and results in a father and two sons taking off in a car and having an accident in which one of the sons is killed . With an introduction like that the mood is set for the surviving 18-year old Pip son ( Paul Anthony - looking far too old for credibility as a teenager ) to desert his family and live on the streets . He meets Clark ( Clarence Sponagle ) a male prostitute who gives Pip food and shelter , Jenny ( the very fine Carly Pope ) who saves him from a bashing by her associate Derek ( Ryan McDonell ) and becomes romantically entangled with Pip , and Father Chris ( Alan Cumming ) in a finely wrought sympathetic role as a priest . It is Pip's 18th birthday and his father ( Serge Houde ) traces Pip down to give him a present from his deceased grandfather with instructions the gift should be opened on Pip's 18th birthday . Pip , though drinking too much and full of anger , pawns the tape machine but keeps the tape and begins to listen to the words of his grandfather Jason ( voice by Ian McKellen ) who recounts his own 18th birthday in WW II in France where he ( now the very sensitive actor Brendan Fletcher ) has an experience with a wounded medic named Macauley ( Mark Hildreth , also superb ) and reflects on his one night marriage with a cabaret singer Hannah ( Thea Gill of ' Queer as Folk ' fame and a fine singer and actress here ) , only for something to live for during the war : Jason offers succor to Macauley as he dies , with a beautiful scene of redemption for he two men at the end . The parallels of Pip and grandfather Jason interplay every time Pip listens to the tape and lead Pip to ultimately alter his view of life and love . Subplots include Clark's isolated existence as a hustler being altered by Jeff ( David Beazely - in a surprisingly fine film debut ) who simply wants to be loved ; by an unexpected pregnancy between Jenny and Pip ; by the trust Father Chris instills in both Pip and Clark in a good shepherd's manner : and by a flashback to the car accident where Pip could have saved his brother Daniel ( Paul Dzenkiw ) from an abusive act at the hands of his father , just before the accident , but failed to do so , opening his deep guilt and resultant misplaced anger , mirrored by his grandfather's taped experiences . Each of these subplots pulls together at the end , creating a sense of closure for each of the people involved . There are aspects of this film that make it seem like a big budget production : the musical score by Bramwell Tovey is performed by the Vancouver Symphony members , the cinematography by Kevin Van Niekerk is aptly atmospheric , and the general quality of acting by this Canadian cast is very fine . Though Paul Anthony handles his role well , casting a very young teenager in the pivotal main role would have made the story work much better , and Richard Bell , with only one other film ' Two Brothers ' on his resume , gives promise of a young talent to watch . Despite the shortcomings , EIGHTEEN is a worthwhile film and deserves attention . Grady Harp
' Cuz , don't shoot me . I love ya '	Duplicitous values and ethics pepper this fine little courtroom comedy drama , a Sidney Lumet special that has a carefully chosen cast of fine actors and a story based on fact ( much of the script being lifted from actual courtroom transcriptions ) that is both informative and entertaining and offers Vin Diesel the opportunity to test his chops at serious acting . Other than the opening scene when Giacomo " Jackie Dee " DiNorscio ( Vin Diesel ) is shot several times in his bedroom , the entire film takes place in jail cells and the courtroom that housed the longest criminal trial in American history . Jackie's fanatic devotion to the pledge never to rat on family or friends is put to the test in a case against several Mafioso characters . The trial is presided over by Judge Finestein ( a superb Ron Silver ) with prosecuting attorney Sean Kierney ( Linus Roache in a strong departure from his usual screen characters ) and among the defense attorneys is the lead attorney Ben Klandis ( Peter Dinklage , once again proving he is a powerhouse of an actor ) . Jackie acts as his own attorney and this is the joy of the film : watching a good fella with a sixth grade education rely on his intuition and charisma with the jury to bring down a verdict thought impossible is not only a delight to see as a role for Diesel , but gains a respect for a character who at the outset seems far from deserving of same . The supporting roles include the consistently fine Annabella Sciora as Jackie's ex-wife , Alex Rocco as the acerbic despicable Nick Calabrese , Raul Esparza as the perpetrator of the gunshots and the smarmy FBI rat witness against Jackie , and so many more . In a film of this caliber it is odd that the sound editor did not have the courtesy to filter out the ambient courtroom noise that at times buries much of the softer , and very poignant dialogue . While we are in the courtroom ( which is the major part of the film ) the noise from the air conditioning , or camera gear or whatever just rumbles along intrusively . But even that technical faux pas doesn't diminish the work of Sidney Lumet nor dim the fine performance by Vin Diesel , complete with prosthetic additions to his body to make him appear more like the real life ' Fat Jack ' than the hunks Diesel usually plays ! Grady Harp
A Suitable Persuasion	PERSUASION together with NORTHANGER ABBEY were posthumous novels by Jane Austin ( published 1817 ) and reflect the position of a novelist whose latter days mirror a younger , wonderful bright spirit and yet soften the social and feminist darts she so successfully hurled at society in her famous earlier works . This particular film adaptation by Nick Dear of PERSUASION respects not only the spirit of the novel but also the station of the author . Under Roger Mitchell's keen direction this cinematic reenactment of the belated flowering of a Anne Elliot's eight year thwarted longing for the love of naval officer Frederick Wentworth , all due to the ' impropriety ' of Wentworth's financial standings of the past , is placed before us as a quietly gentle song , one that still places the scrutinizing Austen microscope on the social mores of the time and the bows to class distinctions that serve as the matrix for Austen's novels . The cast is excellent , with Amanda Root suitably in the background as Anne Elliot and Ciarán Hinds as the wise and slightly weathered Captain Wentworth . But their superb performances would not be as credible were it not for the large cast of fine actors playing the superficial silly sisters and cousins and the haughty ladies as well as the warm and worthy ones . This is first rate ensemble acting , allowing the quiet pulse of Austen's Anne to beat softly behind longing eyes , making her plight and ultimate reward for perseverance step stage front at the end of the film . The music of Chopin and Bach flavor the score by Jeremy Sams and the presence of Rosa Mannion , soprano , singing arias and songs lends both an aural and visual credibility to the atmosphere so ably captured by cinematographer John Daly . This is a satisfying Jane Austen adaptation . Grady Harp
A Tour de Force for Jennifer Lopez	EL CANTANTE missed in the theater run , perhaps because the public is growing weary of ' little person makes good , becomes a celebrity , and aborts a successful life in favor of drugs ' stories . But now that the film is available for DVD viewing in the home , the public can appreciate the very fine qualities of this surprise work . And it may not be too late for an Oscar nod for Jennifer Lopez . . . The film is based on the life of Hector Lavoe ( Marc Anthony ) , the Puerto Rican King of Salsa who gained fame and stardom in the 1970s and 1980s as not only a talented singer but also as a charismatic ' man of the people ' . His rise to fame is related in a tremendously effective black and white late in life interview with Hector's wife Puchi ( a brilliant role for Jennifer Lopez ! ) offering in flashback sequences the rise and fall of the King of Salsa , a life cut short by both drug abuse and AIDS . Much of the film is devoted to musical sequences that bristle with the excitement of Salsa music and Anthony carries his role as Lovoe very well . The cast is uniformly excellent with some fine new faces . Write / director Leon Ichaso lets the drama slip a bit in favor of the music , but still the performance of Jennifer Lopez as the smart but sleazy , tacky and wise Puchi is dynamite . The film is far more solid than expected : the opportunity for Lopez to demonstrate her talent is well worth watching . Grady Harp
Growing Up Is Very Hard To Do	SPIN takes a road much traveled - the coming of age tale of a child whose parents are suddenly absent - but the result is much stronger a story than most in this genre . Based on the novel by Donald Everett Axinn and adapted for the screen by writer / director James Redford ( yes , son of Robert Redford , but strong enough a talent not to need to depend on shadows ! ) , SPIN is an evocative moment in history ( the 1950s ) when the world was more quiet and young people would work their ways through the maze of adolescence without clouds of outside threats . This , then , becomes more poignant and sensitive a study of one lad's growing up to become an adult facing mirrors of those faces from the past and the present . Eddie Haley ( Max Madore ) is very young when his parents die in a plane crash and is placed in the care of his parent's workers Margaret and Ernesto Bejarano ( Dana Delaney and Rubén Blades ) at the decision of his pilot uncle Major Haley ( Stanley Tucci ) - a man whose own demons have left him seemingly invulnerable to intimacy and family , electing to move away from the Haley ranch and its responsibilities rather than raising Eddie . Eddie's companion as a child is Francesca ( Marissa Baca ) who , while not an orphan , is motherless and living with a cruel father . They bond and in addition to the very supportive Bejaranos provide Eddie with as much footing as he is able to manage . Move forward to Eddie as a teenager ( Ryan Merriman ) and he has become a mild punk , floundering around seeking meaning to life and afraid of relationships - fearing he will be ultimately deserted . Francesca ( Paula Garcés ) moves back into town from Mexico and gradually the two become close and involved : Eddie's demons and issues riddle him while Francesca's equally brittle demons seem to make her stronger . Major Haley returns , is at first greatly resented by Eddie until the Major teaches Eddie to fly a plane left to him by his departed father . The relationship that develops between the two is as strong as it is difficult . A tragedy involving Francesca and her father occurs resulting finally in Eddie's ability to feel mature emotions and follows his courage and his heart to change his and Francesca's lives . Redford keeps this potentially saccharine story in tight reins , never allowing bathos but always sharing a view that each of us is human and capable of errors , but equally capable of recovering and resolving consequences . The cast is uniformly strong with Tucci giving one of his finest and most subtle performances to date . Merriman is young and shows great promise : Blades and Delany are seasoned veterans and bring a realistic rapport that adds to the credibility of a story also dealing with ethnic prejudice . The cinematography by Paul Ryan is excellent - some of the best aerial photography outside of the usual war scenes on film . Recommended , not because it is a great movie , but because it is an honest one and the first example of James Redford's seemingly generous talent . Grady Harp
A Seemingly Simple Story That Unravels Its Twists Surprisingly Well	Screenwriter Ted Griffin ( ' Ocean's Eleven ' , ' Matchstick Men ' , ' Rumor Has It ' , etc ) has provided a story for this little film that is successful on many levels : it is a suspenseful mystery , an intelligent look at the Now Generation's unstable approach to life as hopefully handed to them on their parents ' goodwill , a mind twister full of surprises , and most of all a metaphor for where we now stand as a consumer world contained in disposable vials . Working with director Mike Barker's keen sense of timing and comic relief , a fine young cast of notable actors drives this story of desperate turns of fate to an unsuspected ending . The trip is worth your attention . The nowhere / somewhere town setting is Tropico , a dusty boring little place whose reason for existing is a massive recycling plant for discarded containers - just the right setting for a story about little town people who have discarded their dreams . Nick ( Alessandro Nivola ) works in the recycling plant , basing his hopes for something better on the death of his father and the Will through which he plans to gain a comfortable inheritance . But the Life Insurance policy is negated after an autopsy report reveals a ' preexisting condition ' and the remaining assets of his father are owed to the IRS . Nick is broke and in his low state of esteem agrees to be a driver for a drug heist to make enough money to leave boring Tropico . The heist is a bust and Nick is threatened by the owner of the drug stash that he must come up with a large sum of money or else . Nick turns to his girlfriend Lissa ( Reese Witherspoon ) who also wants to leave Tropico and reluctantly agrees to a complex scam against Nick's old college chum Bryce ( Josh Brolin ) . When that scam falls apart there are even more surprises that keep the story bubbling until the unsuspected conclusion . Nivola is outstanding in this tricky role and Witherspoon and Brolin are convincing . Of note there is a very brief role for newcomer Terrence Howard - the film was made in 1999 before some of these actors gained notoriety in the Oscars . Though not entirely without flaws , this fascinating study of recyclable people enmeshed in their own wayward schemes is an entertaining and stimulating tour de force for all involved . It is well worth a second look ! Grady Harp
A Predictable Plot - But a Beautiful Little Film	Tuscany is like a magnet for sentimental Americans : the landscape , the people , the appreciation of life emanates from the sunscapes and offers a paradise to world-weary viewers . And so it is that Tuscany is the true star of this little romantic film . Yet writer / director Brad Mirman clearly knows how to script and move a story that , while predictable , still carries us along with wonderful characters from a fine cast . Jeremy ( Joshua Jackson ) works for a publishing house in New York and is sent to Tuscany to coerce famous novelist Weldon Parish ( Harvey Keitel ) into ending his 20-year moratorium and write a new , ' bound to be best seller ' novel . Parish has not written since he lost his beloved wife , becoming instead a rascal who spends his days basking in the lazy sun with his best friends the priest Father Moretti ( Giancarlo Giannini ) , hotelier Gustavo ( Armando Pucci ) and his squeeze Amalia ( Valeria Cavalli ) . He lives with his daughter Isabella ( Claire Forlani ) and is visited often by his other daughters Dinnie ( Silvia De Santis ) and Maura ( Bianca Guaccero ) , each of whom hopes that their father will return to writing . Upon Jeremy's arrival he finds that everyone in the village is protective of Parish and when he finally meets the silent author , he discovers a man who loathes editors , publishers , press , and anyone else who wants him to start writing again . Gradually Jeremy and Parish begin to break down barriers : Jeremy admits that he longs to be a writer but fears failure and Parish admits that his silence at the typewriter is due to a similar fear . Jeremy falls in love with Isabella , becomes a part of Parish's drinking trio , undergoes some lessons in life . . . . and the ending is obvious from the start ! Harvey Keitel gives a moving performance as the gritty but passionate writer , Joshua Jackson makes Jeremy a believably transitioned man , and the supporting cast is consistently excellent . It really doesn't matter that we know from the beginning just how things will turn out : it is the getting there that is the pleasure of this light but touching film . The only significant problems are in the editing : there appear to be stops and starts as though this were made for television with places for commercials . But other than that this is a film that only asks that we relax , nod recognition , and enjoy the theme of the importance of honesty and the quality of life available if we follow our dreams . Grady Harp
Superb Cast in a Wonderfully Over the Top Parody	Todd Stephens offers his second fine film about gay life ( Edge of Seventeen was his first ) and aptly titles it ANOTHER GAY MOVIE . It is a colorful , fast-paced , wonderfully silly , knock ' em dead parody of gay stereotypes boasting a fine cast of actors who know how to pull this caper off and seem to have a terrific time doing it ! Four gay high school friends make a pact at graduation that they will loose their virginity before Labor Day . Egged on by the gross lesbian Muffler ( Ashlie Atkinson ) the four plan their ploys in a funny session and the fun begins . Andy ( Michael Carbonaro ) , in constant fantasy about his teacher Mr . Puckov ( Graham Norton ) ' prepares ' himself with various instruments only to be discovered in embarrassing situations by his wild mother ( John Epperson aka Lypsinka ) and his bisexual father ( Scott Thompson ) . Nico ( Jonah Blechman ) is so over-the-top outrageous that he believes no one knows he is gay - not his warmly wise mother ( Stephanie McVay ) or his hilarious blind ' girlfriend ' Daisy ( Joanna Leeds ) . Star-struck he goes after celebrities such as Richard Hatch ( playing himself ) to little avail . Jarod ( Jonathan Chase ) seems to have little trouble attracting studs like Beau ( studly James Getzlaff ) and Griff ( Mitch Morris ) is stricken with the hunky stripper Angel ( the ever so buff Darryl Stephens ) . Each young man finds the trail to loss of virginity a trial but it all comes together ' in the end ' . Films like this are tough to pull off : audiences think they will be offended by the fairly frank and inside jokes . And perhaps with a less talented cast the movie could be off-putting . But this ensemble cast knows just how far to push the button and the result is a hilarious romp that has a lot of very worthwhile undertones . Grady Harp
Boundaries , Checkpoints , and Martyrdom	PARADISE NOW opens windows of information to those of us who do not live in the Middle East and who toil over understanding the strife that daily bitterly continues , bruising the lives of both ends of the polarity that separates the peoples of the region . Are there ever to be answers or solutions to the crises ? For this viewer watching and absorbing PARADISE NOW is illuminating in that it removes the expected political preaching to focus on the minds of the people living under the daily stress of life at its most difficult . Taking us there , making ideas into people with all the convictions and rebelliousness and fragility , writer / director Hany Abu-Assad ( with Bero Beyer ) offers invaluable insights and in the end we are left with a story about humanity and the consequences of decisions , and the desperate need for peace . Said ( Kais Nashef ) and Khaled ( Ali Suliman ) are childhood friends in Palestine who have been elected to be suicide bombers in an attack on Tel Aviv . Their election to be martyrs for the destruction of the ' invaders ' is considered an honor : their deaths will bring glory to their country , their families , and guarantee them instant entry into heaven . We see the two men as citizens living in the dusty hovels , facing barricades and checkpoints that make their lives ones of constant stress . Martyrdom will bring them peace and eternal rest . The entire process of preparing the elected martyrs , from making farewell videotapes for their parents , to having their hair cut short , to having the bombs strapped to their bodies , to dressing them in black suits for the ' wedding ' they are instructed to claim to attend in Tel Aviv , to sending them off at the designated spot is relentlessly filmed . Said and Khaled accept their roles although with varying degrees of emotional commitment . At the point where the lads are to begin their martyrdom venture they are separated and the story is how each continues living , each now alone . The families and the perpetrators of the scheme are well drawn by a strong cast , with one female role Suha ( Lubna Azabal ) as a voice of reason and peace standing out particularly strongly . The sensitivity of the actors Kais Nashef and Ali Suliman keeps this drama from sinking into politicism and instead allows us to understand the inner turmoil of the two men they portray as they cope with their duties and their lives . This is a powerful document that serves as a plea for peace wherever terrorism is a factor - and now that is global . If more of us could watch and absorb films such as PARADISE NOW perhaps the itinerant boundaries separating mankind by misunderstanding could be reduced without the need for war . Highly Recommended . In Arabic with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Visually and Musically Stunning Film	Why there is so much polarity with the audiences of Rob Marshall's cinematic adaptation of Arthur Golden's exquisite novel MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA is puzzling . Even in the theater there were those who left halfway through - reason unknown . Despite disagreements on the casting techniques and on the emphasis changes between the book and the film , MEMOIRS remains one of the most visually arresting , genteel films of the year . That it comes across as somewhat of an epic soap opera is no one's fault but the writers . And what is so wrong with an old-fashioned soap opera of a story afterall ? The opening scene of the turbulent sea and heavy rain that accompany the silent selling of two poor sisters to a merchant planning to place the girls in houses in Osaka gives an indication of the importance of water in this story . The sisters are delivered to a house of geishas and only one is selected by the hard madam . Through years of suffering and anguish the chosen one becomes a geisha , finds comfort from her childhood of poverty , gains loving mentoring by a top geisha , becomes the most sought after geisha in Osaka , finds her love , endures WW II and eventually returns to her dreams . The interplay between the girl and the various members of the geisha training and bartering complex add flavor and conflict that keep the story flowing . The three principal actresses - Ziyi Zhang , Michelle Yeoh , and Gong Li carry the film well . The large cast includes favorite actors Ken Watanabe and Mako . The settings are splendid , the special effects such as the cherry blossoms , the autumnal reunion of Zhang and Watanabe , Zhang's spellbinding dance - all are brilliant . John Williams ' musical score blends the best of Japanese folk music with contemporary writing and is greatly abetted by the talent of Yo-Yo Ma and Itzak Perlman . Part of the brilliance of Golden's novel was the meticulous explanation of the myriad details of geisha training and demeanor and makeup and tradition , and while the film version touches on these , the bulk of them are passed over . For this viewer there is a problem with understanding the dialogue due to the enunciation by the actors and the covering of much of the dialogue with ambient music . But that is a minor complaint . In all , MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA is an enormously beautiful and affecting film , one that multiple viewings will no doubt enhance the viewers ' appreciation . Recommended . Grady Harp , February 06
Calling a Bluff : A Timely Look at Citizen / Police Interaction in Kidnapping	RANSOM is yet another Hollywood extravaganza movie about the terrors of the crime of kidnapping - with a twist . Ron Howard directs this , for the most part , gripping story with propulsion and the ability to gain nuanced performances from a disparate cast . The result is a tightly wound spring that coils tensely until the last fifteen minutes when the film explodes . Tom Mullen ( Mel Gibson ) is a wealthy man with a strong willed wife Kate ( Rene Russo ) and a son Sean ( Brawley Nolte - yes , in life the son of actor Nick Nolte ) . When Sean is kidnapped by a Detective ( ! ) Jimmy Shaker ( Gary Sinise ) and ransom is demanded , Tom goes before national TV audiences and doubles the ransom demand for a bounty on Shaker's life . How this turn of events of a kidnapper becoming the victim and the resolution of the kidnapping that results is the gist of the story : it is the struggle of good vs evil , citizen vs police , and calling the bluff of a dangerous man for the sake of a father saving his child . Gibson does well as the torn father , though director Howard allows him to go a bit over the edge , acting wise . The real shiner of this film is Gary Sinise who continues to impress with the facility with which he moves through varied character parts . There are moments of fine expressive silences from co-stars Lili Taylor , Liev Schreiber , Evan Handler , Delroy Lindo , and Donnie Wahlberg that enhance the tension because of the underplaying of their roles : Gibson could take some pointers . . . A good cat and mouse tale that has at its core the heinous crime of kidnapping , police corruption , and family devotion , this film is worth a view . Grady Harp
Another Role for which Julianne Moore Deserved an Oscar	THE PRIZE WINNER OF DEFIANCE , OHIO probably went unnoticed in the theaters because of the title and because of the sappy posters that accompanied its release . Sounds like a silly little flick , but in reality it contains a fine re-creation of the 1950s , of the way women were viewed in that era , of the indomitable spirit of a mother who must raise ten children without the help of an inadequate husband - and a finely wrought performance by one of our bets actresses on the screen today . Julianne Moore gives one of her signature understated roles as Evelyn Ryan , creating an unlikely character in whom the audience finds a depth of substance and durability . Living in Defiance , Ohio with her machinist cum alcoholic husband Kelly ( Woody Harrelson ) who is unable to bring home money after his purchases of booze to support his large family . Evelyn copes by entering contests of jingles and poems put out by advertising companies and with her earnings supports her family physically as well as emotionally . Though often thwarted by her husband's actions , she still manages to keep the boat afloat , to maintain her dreams , and to make the best of a bad situation . Moore is radiant as usual , but in this role she is even more subtle in creating an unlikely character than in even her best films . She is a stunning actress and deserved at least an Oscar nomination for her strong work . The story is based on truth and that helps its credibility as a film . But though the story lacks magnitude , Moore brings it to a level of excellence with her extraordinary gifts . Recommended . Grady Harp
Loneliness , Alienation , Desire and Need : A Quasi Romance	LIGHT OF MY EYES ( ' Luce dei miei occhi ' ) is more a fantasia on theme of loneliness and need for love than it is a straightforward narrative story . Under the direction of Giuseppe Piccioni , who co-wrote the screenplay with Umberto Contarello , it shimmers like and extended poem , a theme so delicate and so suffused with melancholy that it remains as an echo long after the film is over . Antonio ( Luigi Lo Cascio ) is a sweet dreamer who respects his station in life as a chauffeur for customers about Rome , following the rule of ' Know when to talk and when to shut up ' his boss has set as the standard . In his lonely ennui Antonio narrates his life in a voice-over monologue as a man named Morgan , a character with whom he identifies from his science fiction novel . His life takes on some meaning when he prevents an accident from happening with a young girl Lisa ( Barbara Valente ) who lives a lonely life with her lonely mother Maria ( Sandra Ceccarelli ) whose life is divided among making a living in a not too successful frozen food shop , a frustrating sexual attachment to a cold married man , and trying to hold her little home together since her husband's absence . Gradually Antonio's act of protecting Lisa is acknowledged by Maria and while Antonio is quite taken with the distant Maria , Maria thanks him in a brief and passionate but isolated sexual experience . Maria is needy , Antonio is needy , Lisa is needy , but somehow the connection cannot be made : Maria must concentrate on her lack of income to support Lisa . Antonio , seeing the need to assist Maria's financial situation , allows himself to accept a chauffeur job that involves illegal smuggling of foreigners . Maria's response to her desperate situation is to allow Lisa to be cared for by her grandparents . In a moment suggestive of the old Christmas tale where the man buys combs for his wife's hair while the wife sells her hair to by a gift for her husband , Maria and Antonio face the misunderstanding of their ' friendship ' and all seems lost until each changes a significant event that opens a communal door of caring and hope for something more for the little trio . Both Lo Cascio and Ceccarelli are fine actors and make these difficult roles wholly credible . The atmosphere of the film is well defined by the adroit camera work of Arnaldo Catinari and enhanced by the musical score by Ludovico Einaudi . This is one of those very small films that may evade the casual film-goer not only due to the inappropriately poor DVD cover art but also by the lack of proper promotion . It is a word of mouth success in this country . In Italian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Araki Examines Contemporary Relationships	SPLENDOR is a quick little film that once again demonstrates writer / director Gregg Araki's talent in making big social comments out of just a little idea . Though this may not be one of his most successful films , it certainly has enough going for it to give it a look . Narrated by flippant , kooky , slightly irritatingly shallow Veronica ( Kathleen Robertson ) who also is the main character of the story , we find that Veronica ( aka V aka Ron ) has been on a dry run for a love life for a long time , and just when she thinks she'll never find her man , up pops Halloween , and with her best friend Mike ( Kelly MacDonald ) she ventures into a party where she meets not one but two candidates for relationship - Abel ( hunky Jonathan Schaech ) who is a would be writer and is inept at about everything social and Zed ( also hunky Matt Keeslar ) who is a drummer whose intellect and socialization skills don't go far beyond his drumsticks . Veronica beds them both , finds them equally attractive and eventually the three become a ménage à trois in the same apartment . The two men , while transiently jealous of each other , ultimately find happiness in Veronica's breadwinning capabilities and both truly love her and each other . Things become strained when Veronica learns she is pregnant ! Meanwhile , Veronica is offered upward mobility by yet another hunk Ernest ( Eric Mabius ) who represents stability and money whereas Abel and Zed represent only passion . Considering her pregnant life choices she agrees to marry Ernest despite her lack of loving him and all proceeds towards the wedding day when Abel and Zed decide to make changes in the plans . Schaech , Mabius and Keeslar provide sufficient eye candy to overcome a strained script . Had Veronica been cast differently the story may have had a better impact , but as it is this remains a fun , spunky movie that for Araki fans is a good diversion . Grady Harp
" It Ain't Over ' Til It's Over "	Who would have expected Sylvester Stallone to be able to squeeze yet another movie out of his internationally successful Rocky series ? Well , friends , the guy may have aged with the rest of us but Stallone's ability to go to the heart of the character he has made an icon still is strong . As a result ROCKY BALBOA , though overly sentimental at times ( which is in keeping with the Rocky we have all grown to know ) plays as a show of strength not only in the boxing ring , but also in the viability of the heart . The aged Rocky runs a restaurant named after his deceased wife Adrian ( who gratefully appears in flashbacks of the original Talia Shire ) where he chats with his devoted customers as the still admired boxing hero of Philadelphia . His trainer Paulie ( Burt Young ) has aged too , but the two remain close . Rocky also encounters a lonely single mother Marie ( Geraldine Hughes ) and befriends her and her racially mixed son Steps ( James Francis Kelly III ) . Mildly estranged from his son ( Milo Ventimiglia ) who is trying to make a life for himself in his father's shadow , Rocky happens to see a spoof on television placing Rocky as the contender against the new heavyweight champion Mason ' The Line ' Dixon ( Antonio Tarver , a boxer who was groomed as an actor for this film ) , a fighter who lacks soul and seems to foretell the end of passionate boxing . With such a huge support group Rocky decides to train and actually compete , fighting Dixon with multiple incentives . The ending demonstrates the power of willpower and the greater power of humanity and love because ' you gotta keep movin ' forward ' . ROCKY BALBOA , then , is a fine finish for a series of films that have gained a permanent place in the history of cinema . It is a pleasure to see Sylvester Stallone act and direct a very fine cast of actors in a genuinely satisfying film . There are many worthwhile messages with the frames of this old-fashioned movie . Grady Harp
A Dysfunctional Family in the Manner of Greek Tragedy	Thanasis Papathanasiou and Michalis Reppas serve the double capacities as writers and directors of this Greek film that places a contemporary Greek family on the stage of ancient Greek tragedies , even to the point of parallels between the characters and Greek tragedy roles ! Though the story is complex and meanders a bit too much to follow with ease , it does make a powerful statement about families torn apart by death , greed , and all manner of sexual disloyalties . The family consists of mother Magda who owns important land coveted by entrepreneurs and who runs a bakery while caring for her wholly invalid husband injured in a car crash that killed her daughter ; a money-conscious daughter married to Stelios , an earthy stud of a man with whom Magda is having an affair ; the silent near comatose father who sits observing the tragedy like a wordless Greek chorus ; and Christos , the hunky son who is bisexual and sleeping with a young girlfriend and an older woman and an older bisexual male city official Yiorgos who is married with children and is in charge of the city planning , his chief project involves the land Magda owns . The plot is convoluted but basically boils down to the development of a blackmail plan that will gain money for the land the family owns . The blackmail plan involves Christos ' affair with Yiorgos in which videotapes are made of Christos ' assignations with Yiorgos . The lives of all the characters are altered once the greed consumes them and there are discoveries , a death , betrayals , twists and feuds that end in a surprising manner . The cast is strong , especially Yannis Tsimitselis as Christos , Nena Menti as Magda , Akilas Karazisis as Yiorgos , and Alexis Georgoulis as Stelios , with all of the supporting roles well cast . There may be just too many factors to keep straight in this film , but the overall effect is rather grand in its unremitting examination of a family in the process of disintegrating . Well done though taxing movie . Grady Harp
A Tender Little Family Film About the Importance of Dreams	THE ASTRONAUT FARMER is a sound little film with a warm message about living for your dreams . The best part about this film is its honesty in not pushing the limits to make a point . It does require the audience to release a bit of credibility , but stories that are fables are pretty rare in film these days and that is reason enough to enter this one . Twin brothers Michael and Mark Polish ( ' Northfork ' , ' Twin Falls Idaho ' , ' Jackpot ' ) wrote and directed this work and have a style that begs indulgence on the part of the viewer , but the style is unique and consistent and is proving to be a fascinating source of art house movie making . Charles Farmer ( Billy Bob Thornton ) is a retired military man who trained as an astronaut but retired to save his family farm in Texas . He dreams of a life as an astronaut and with the encouragement of his wife Audie ( Virginia Madsen ) , grandfather Hal ( Bruce Dern ) , son Shepard ( Max Thieriot ) and other children , Farmer has built a rocket and a space ship , going against all odds to be the first citizen astronaut . Though many of the little town's citizens question Farmer's credibility and though the bank threatens to foreclose on his over-borrowed farm , Farmer persists - his only major problem occurs when he orders 10 , 000 gallons of fuel , a factor that alerts the FBI . But Farmer manages to remain focused to achieve his dream and the ending of the movie reveals the payoff to his persistence . The cast is excellent with Thornton giving one of his more docile roles and succeeding in making Farmer win our hearts . Minor roles make use of the talents of Tim Blake Nelson , J . K . Simmons , Sal Lopez and Kiersten Warren among others . The pleasure of this fantasy film is the lack of need for computer-generated animation : the magic is in the warmth of the characters and their dreams . This is a fine little film for a large , sensitive audience . Grady Harp
The Disparities and Dichotomies Between Classes : Consequences	Alan Hollinghurst's brilliant novel THE LINE OF BEAUTY has been well adapted for film by Andrew Davies and brought to BBC television by director Saul Dibb and an outstanding cast . That television miniseries is now available on one DVD with each of the three parts intact as seen in the UK ( not the parceled version shown in the USA ) and it is a satisfying transition from Hollinghurst's visual poetry to cinematic depiction . The story takes place from 1983 to 1987 in England - the Thatcher years - when class differences , hypocrisies , paparazzi , and homophobia were peaking . Essentially the tour guide through this time is one Nicholas Guest ( Dan Stephens ) , a ' middle class ' son of an antiques dealer who has just finished Oxford ( on scholarship ) and visits the home of his wealthy roommate Toby Fedden ( Oliver Coleman ) whose father Gerald ( Tim McInnerny ) is climbing the steps of politics as his warmly understanding and supportive wife Rachel ( Alice Krige ) looks on and worries about their knotty daughter Cat ( Hayley Atwill ) who loathes politics and sees the hypocrisy spoken by all of her father's associates . Nick is welcomed into the family with genuine warmth and he is smitten by the grandeur of their lifestyle and the beauty of their home : he becomes their surrogate son when Toby leaves for adventures with his shallow sweetheart , taking care of at times self-mutilating Cat . Nicholas is gay , finds love with a lower class handsome black man Leo ( Don Gilet ) , and shares his proclivities with Cat , his confidant . Insidiously Nick becomes a full part of the Fedden family , serving as a son would , entertaining at parties with them , and meeting the important people whom Gerald engages in his political pyramid . Among them is a Lebanese family whose wealthy son Wani Ouradi ( Alex Wyndham ) catches Nick's eye and though Wani is ' engaged ' to a girl he also is a severely closeted gay man and Nick and Wani become entwined in drugs and love . When the spectre of AIDS begins to diminish the population of England some secrets are revealed , secrets of sexual liaisons that are intolerable for the Feddens and their associates yet lead to the hypocrisy of affairs within Gerald Fedden's protected world . It is the surfacing of the true lives of the characters that proves to be the downfall of Nicholas and his relationship to the world of wealth as well as the crumbling of the fragile political , media-infested world of Gerald Fedden's creation . The cast is uniformly excellent and Dibb is able to coax the acrid aura of England of the 1980s with lucidity and a sensitive eye for revealing corruption and fractured human relationships . If the viewer is left with the feeling that Nicholas does not really deserve our concern because of his hollow devotion to wealth as a means to happiness then the point of Hollinghurst's novel has been well served . The film is not without flaws ( a pianist at one of the soirées , we are told by supertitles , is paying Grieg's Piano Concerto . . . . when that could not be further from reality ! ) , and insufficient time is given to the Nick / Wani and Nick / Leo relationships to allow us into the inner sanctum of gay life in this tough time , etc . , it still is an engrossing drama and one very well played by credible actors . Grady Harp
To love you have to have a history	Jean Pierre Limosin has taken on a story interlacing memory , love , history , and passion that not only has pertinence in our galloping society of hasty encounters and transient relationships but also pleads a case for people with cognitive dysfunction . Unfortunately the film is marketed as a comedy and while there are some curious incidents that cause a bit of nervous laughter , this viewer sees the work as more of a difficult struggle for those affected by mental malfunctions that affect not only the patient but also those who surround him . Graham / Pablo ( the handsome and gifted Spanish actor Eduardo Noriega - ' Burnt Money ' , ' Abre los ojos ' , The Devil's Backbone ' , etc ) , though obviously bright and capable , works as a photocopy clerk for a large company , but suffers from memory loss , a deficit that prevents his remembering his wife Isabelle ( Paz Vega ) and son Antoine ( Lény Bueno ) , his best friend Fred ( Eric Caravaca ) , and his fellow coworkers . It also obscures his memory of flirtations and sexual encounters , including libidinous frequent seductions from his boss Sabine ( Nathalie Richard ) . When a temporary worker Irene ( Anna Mougalis ) is hired Graham is told to show her the building and they end up on the roof in a passionate embrace - which of course Graham immediately forgets . But daily encounters with Irene gradually become so rich in passion that they somehow begin to register on Graham's tabula rasa mind condition ! Graham's means of survival lies in the notebook attached to his wrist in which he keeps a diary of all events to remind him of each day's events . This ' artificial memory / identity ' provides information for Irene , for Fred , and for his doctors and each of them has reasons to use this diary to their own ends : Fred while supportive of his friend is actually in love with Isabelle , and Irene finds evidence of Graham's affection for her that suggests to her a method of helping Graham restore his memory - and in doing so , possibly win his permanent allegiance to her . There are some bumpy portions of this film that create confusion at times , but in retrospect one wonders if this might have been the intention of the director - placing us as viewers into the mindset of short term memory loss to better understand Graham's plight ! The cast is uniformly strong and Eduardo Noriega once again proves that he is completely capable of taking on a challenging role and finding the humanity within . Yes , there are some graphic sex scenes but they serve to intensify the flow of the story in view of the condition of Graham to whom every encounter has all the lust of a first encounter with an unknown lover ! Recommended . Grady Harp
Descending into Darkness : Mamet's Words of Nihilism	EDMOND is a dark , dank , mercilessly downer of a film - that just happens to be one of the best pieces of work the very talented William H . Macy has ever done . In a bravura performance he embodies the strange creature created by David Mamet , triumphs in the extended monologues that include hate , racism , homophobia , hopelessness , and fear and serves them up in a near stoic way that allows the viewer to accompany the dissociating man into the depths of hell - but with an absolutely solid ending . It may not be an easy movie to watch , but it is clearly one actor's tour de force that deserves attention . Edmond ( Macy ) is a bored , frustrated , angry robot of a worker who happens on a fortune teller who reads his Tarot cards and tells him he is in the wrong place . Edmond , obviously disturbed , goes home , leaves his wife who no longer stimulates him spiritually or sensuously , and begins his Rake's Progress journey through the bowels of the filthy city . He has a bar conversation with an anonymous guy ( Joe Montegna ) who advises him to go get laid , gives him an address , and disappears . What follows is a series of bad encounters with hookers , peep show dancers , sidewalk con artists , and pimps : Edmond spits out vitriolic racist epithets , is beaten and robbed , pawns his ring , buys a vicious knife , and begins his retribution - a path that includes murder and prison . As he ultimately finds his prison cell the only place of rest he can tolerate , in comes a cellmate ( African American of course ) and after an abusive start , Edmond shaves his head , gets tattooed and the story closes in a rather tender fashion . The cast is superb : the vignettes of the characters Edmond encounters include Mena Suvari , Julia Stiles , Bokeem Woodbine , Rebecca Pidgeon , along with other less well known but equally fine actors . Stuart Gordon directs Mamet's play-to-film story with the right amount of bluntness and dark , smarmy street situations . But it is Macy who is uncanny in his ability to carry us along the warped and disintegrating mind of the character who could be any of a number standing next to us in an elevator . . . . A tough film but well worth viewing . Grady Harp , October 06
Harsh , Gritty , Tough . . . Very Moving Film !	' Gegen die Wand ' in German , ' Duvara karsi ' in Turkish , or ' HEAD-ON ' in English is an explosive drama written and directed by Faith Akin , a movie that may be tough to watch , but a movie that has enormous impact . While other films have successfully addressed the particular problems that the immigrant Turkish community in Germany face , few have come as close to examining all sides of the on-going issues of displacement and the effects of familial dispersal in the face of a new culture . Cahit ( Birol Ünel ) is a thirty-something lost soul , drinking and snorting himself into oblivion over the loss of his beloved wife . He lives in a slum , spends all his time in sleazy bars getting beaten up for inappropriate behavior until one night he drunkenly drives into a wall ( ? suicidal ? ) and ends up in a hospital where he ' meets ' Sibel ( Sibel Kekilli ) , a young woman who has again attempted suicide as an escape from her strict family's prevention of her having a life . Hearing Cahit is Turkish , Sibel nonchalantly suggests they ' marry ' : Sibel's only way to escape her family would be to find a Turkish husband . Though grossly mismatched , the two agree to an ' open marriage ' , they satisfy Sibel's family , and move in together . Sibel cooks and cleans Cahit's hovel , and then goes out and sleeps around . This arrangement eventually causes problems for each of them and Sibel moves to Istanbul to escape the horrors of the life she has chosen . Once alone , Cahit is confronted with the reality that Sibel is the only path to salvation for his tragic life and the story proceeds - or rather speed drives - its way to a heartrending finish . The characters in the film are generally unlikable sorts , especially Cahit , but each actor does so well allowing us to observe the dreary world that faces immigrants in a fractured society that we end up having an amazing amount of compassion for their character creations . Director Akin makes this two-hour plus drama speed by with such solid purpose that it seems a short film . There is considerable nudity and the sexual encounters may be a problem for some viewers , but Akin's cinematographer Rainer Klausmann makes everything work toward the ultimate message of the film . An interesting touch is Akin's choice of weaving a chamber music group of a female vocalist with Turkish instrumentalists as a chorus to comment on the action and keep us mindful that , though the film for the most part is set in Germany , this is a very Turkish story ! Grady Harp
A Bittersweet , Gentle Comedy and Love Story	FOUR LAST SONGS is one of those little films that quietly turns a little comedy about seemingly incongruous situations into a finely spun series of love stories : father and daughter , man and woman , disparate brothers , lonely widows , and a village that loves its heritage . Writer / Director Francesca Joseph understands her craft and blends a well-paced story with a fine cast . The result is a heartwarming evening of entertainment . On a small Mediterranean island ( Mallorca / Balearic Islands ) lives an odd group of expatriates . Larry ( Stanley Tucci ) is pianist from classical training who makes his living playing piano bar while he pines for the purity of classical music such as that of a deceased composer who lived on the island once wrote . His long term girlfriend Miranda ( Jessica Stevenson ) practices yoga and supports Larry's dreams . Sebastian ( Hugh Bonneville ) is a well to do , would be impresario who lives with his perpetually drunk and miscreant brother Dickie ( Rhys Ifans ) . Larry develops a plan to have a concert of the deceased composer's music there on the island but has to contend with the composer's widow Veronica ( Marisa Paredes ) as well as the composer's beautiful ' muse ' Helena ( Emmanuelle Seigner ) : the two women are bitter enemies . Larry obtains Veronica's permission to stage the concert of her husband's music , has the composer's grand piano brought in by helicopter , and hires the infamous pianist Narcisco Ortega ( Virgile Bramly ) to perform . And while Sebastian vies for the rights to have the concert take place , the obstacles encountered are beyond his intrusion . All goes well until the surprise arrival of Larry's ' unknown daughter ' from an old weekend affair arrives : Frankie ( Jena Malone ) has been tracking down her birth father for apparent and occult reasons . Narcisco arrives with entourage , seduces Frankie , and in an act of fatherly protection Larry injures the pianist's hands and the whole project falls apart . In a final ploy to make the concert work Helena gives Larry the composer's final songs - dedicated with love to his wife Veronica - and Larry agrees to perform the music in the small concert of his dreams , and the concert serves as a moment of healing between each of the paired and unpaired characters . Not only are the characters well played by this very fine cast , but also the scenery of the island is exotic and romantic as captured by cinematographer Javier Salmones . The original music score by Dan Jones includes a truly lovely ' last song ' and is enhanced by the fact that excerpts from Richard Strauss ' " Four Last Songs " as sung by Sylvia Sass are an integral part of the soundtrack . This is a tender little story with equal amounts of sensitive humor and warmth , a film that deserves a much wider audience . Grady Harp
High Tech Voyeurism Enhances a Good Thriller	DISTURBIA is a fine little thriller of a movie . Though some viewers are commenting that it is merely a takeoff on REAR WINDOW and finding it not up to that caliber - and if that bothers potential viewers then be advised , for this viewer it is more a film that addresses our progressive invasion of privacy by high tech instruments , and as such the film makes an important statement . Writers Christopher Landon and Carl Ellsworth have produced a solid script that manages to capture teenage angst and view of the world and with director D . J . Caruso the story is propelled along with a hold-your-breath pace that makes for a very entertaining and scary movie ! Kale ( a very fine Shia LaBeouf ) had a great relationship with his father ( Matt Craven ) , but in a hideous auto accident Kale witnesses the death of his father , an event that disturbs him so greatly even a year later that he misbehaves in school and eventually is put under house arrest wearing an alarm bracelet on his ankle . Kale's mother ( Carrie-Anne Moss ) tries to cope with the ' incarcerated ' Kale , but tires of his aimless wasting of time and energy . Out of boredom Kale stares out his windows with binoculars , observing the neighbors , not the least of which is an attractive young Ashley ( Sarah Roemer ) . Kale's best friend Ronnie ( a very promising Aaron Yoo ) is Kale's only contact with the outside world and when the two boys spy on Ashley in her swimming pool , they together find more sophisticated means of voyeurism . And , once Ashley visits Kale the three join in spying on a strange neighbor Mr . Turner ( David Morse ) , finding him similar to a media-described serial killer . From there the plot thickens and quickens as the threesome made dangerous discoveries and end up in an investigation of scary proportions . The final fifteen minutes of the film are a bit over-the-top , but the rest of the movie is so well done that the ending can be forgiven . There are some fine cameo roles by Viola Davis as the detective in charge of Kale's house arrest , Jose Pablo Cantillo as officer who is stuck with responding to Kale's multiple infringements of his house arrest , among others . Shia LaBeouf is young in his craft but demonstrates a fine screen presence and a lot of polish : he carries the movie well . This is not a major film ( though it did very well at the box office ! ) , but is a surefire entertainment ! Grady Harp
Three Times : A Century of Reponses to Love	THREE TIMES ( Zui hao de shi guang ) is so frank a film that the viewer may get lost looking for the hidden meanings in this century traversal of lovers ' interactions in China . Not one for simple linear film-making , director Hsiao-hsien Hou instead opts for mood and suggestion and leaves the paucity of dialog to make room for emotional involvement and response . Three periods - 1966 A Time for Love , 1911 A Time for Freedom , and 2005 A Time for Youth - are depicted with the same main characters , Qi Shu and Chen Chang , who prove to be exceptionally sensitive to the concept from the director : with each new tale these fine actors mold new characters and questions and yet allow us to see a line of similarity in the couples as the director has suggested . The film wisely opens with the most successful of the three ' Times ' - 1966 A Time for Love - - tracing the emergence of timid passion between a lad headed for the military and a young girl who works in a pool hall . They communicate by letters after their first brief introductory encounter and circumstances interfere with the progress of their relationship in 1966 Taiwan . The middle section 1911 A Time for Freedom is gorgeous visually and conceptually the director has elected to use the cinematic form of the period ( silent movie ) to tell his story about the freeing of a young girl from the grip of a brothel madam and surveys the political tensions between Japan and China as the quietly lighted story of love and yearning unfolds . The film ends with 2005 A Time for Youth and here our lovers are caught up in the pollution of smog , cellphones , emails , nightclubs , and infidelities for same sex affairs that speak loudly about the tenor of the times . Hsiao-hsien Hou's films are an acquired taste and many will find the choppy editing , the fragmentary scenes that are not always well focused for the story line , and the over-long length ( 130 minutes ) too much to endure . But the ideas are fresh and the characters and vignettes are memorable , and most of the major critics in the media have lavished praise on this film . It is an interesting work but for this viewer there are enough flaws to keep it grounded . Grady Harp
A Complex Tale Told with Humor , Tenderness , and Simplicity	Teenage pregnancy is frequently a starting point for myriad philosophical arguments : some see it as a major problem , some see it as an argument for the need of early teaching of contraceptive technique and sex education , some see it as a reason for championing abortion , and some see it as a piece of life that confronts families in both positive and negative ways . JUNO is a beautifully written ( Diablo Cody ) and directed ( Jason Reitman ) version of unplanned pregnancy offered by a splendid ensemble cast : it is a movie that could modify the sociologic outlook of many people in a very strong fashion . Juno ( Ellen Page ) is sixteen and talks her best friend Bleek ( Michael Cera ) into having sex : the result is a surprise pregnancy that Juno shares with her girlfriend Leah ( Olivia Thirley ) and the store clerk Rollo ( Rainn Wilson ) even before informing Bleek , a likable kid who seems fairly flat about the situation . After discarding abortion as a viable solution , Juno informs her father ( JK Simmons ) and stepmother ( Allison Janney ) of her status , and tells them she is going to complete the pregnancy and give the baby to some loving and needy barren couple . Her parents are at first flustered by the news , but quickly become supportive in a way that tells us many things about the durability of successful families . With Leah's help , Juno answers an ad for ' wanted : baby ' in PennySaver and visits the Lorings ( Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman ) who desperately want a child and embrace Juno's gesture of adoption with eager excitement . The remainder of the film follows Juno as her abdomen increases in girth , finding new respect for her parents and for Bleek , and inadvertently walking in the troubled waters of the Loring's marital discord . Without giving the story away , the ending is so tender and free of cliché that it allows us , the audience , to appreciate all the vigor and sensitivity and humor and warmth of Juno - an example of developing maturity that is a fresh breeze compared to the usual teenage movies . Ellen Page does indeed deliver a pitch perfect performance , but her co-stars are equally fine : Simmons and Janney break away from their usual type cast roles brilliantly , and the other members of the cast ( the entire cast ) flesh out this well written story with great skill . The mixture of animated graphics and the imaginative musical score enhance the flavor of the tale . JUNO offers an unbiased look at the topic of teenage pregnancy and wins on every level . Grady Harp
More than meets the eye	PROM QUEEN succeeds not only because it is a controversial subject based on a true incident , but because of the light touch director John L'Ecuyer adds to the dimension of storytelling . Writers Michael MacLennan and Kent Staines have pieced together the facts from a now famous ' hearing ' in Quebec concerning one teenage boy's challenging the Catholic Church school policies about sexual preferences in preventing him from attending a high school Prom and have fleshed out the characters to make the story not only meaningfully important but also entertaining . Marc Hall ( Aaron Ashmore ) is a fun-loving , blue-haired gay lad who has a partner Jason ( Mac Fyfe ) and is comfortable in a semi-closeted way , and who attends a Catholic high school in Quebec . He is fortunate to have a band of accepting and supporting friends like Beau ( eye candy actor Trevor Blumas ) and Carly ( Tamara Hope ) among others who encourage Marc to bring his boyfriend to the upcoming Prom . The school officials - principal and school board - are adamant that the Catholic Church regards sames sex relationships as sin and refuse to allow Marc to consider attending the Prom with Jason . Marc decides to ' come out ' to his parents Emily ( Marie Tifo ) and Audy ( Jean Pierre Bergeron ) and they warmly assure him they have known for years ( " Your hair . It's blue . And you have a poster of Celine Dion on your wall . We know . " ) With the support of his friends and a gay lawyer Lonnie Winn ( Scott Thompson ) , Marc agrees to challenge the school / church stance and in a touching courtroom drama Marc pleads his case . Though due to the familiarity of the case the audience knows from the beginning that Marc Hall won his right to attend the Prom with Jason , it is in the telling that the story takes flight . Though ' made for TV ' budgetary constraints and format are obvious , PROM QUEEN boasts some fine actors and manages to bring to the screen another important hallmark in the Human Rights field . While some may avoid this film for fear of its being a ' gay movie ' , rest assured that the content is handled in a touching and realistic way . Recommended for all audiences , especially the teens who need to see both sides of a bit of history . Grady Harp
A Little Film That Packs a Wallop !	ROAD TO LOVE is an obviously very low budget independent French film that introduces the audience to the theme of homosexuality as it is manifested among Islamic / Arab men . Writers Rémi Lange and Antoine Parlebas have created a script so natural , so sensitively real that at moments the film feels like a documentary ( each of the young actors in the story bear their own names , the technique of storytelling is basically video interviews ) , but the impact of the move is quietly profound , without a trace of the saccharine or the gush of Hollywood films dealing with gay subject matter . French Algerian Karim ( Karim Tarek ) is a student in Paris and spends his time with his girlfriend Sihem ( Sihem Benamoune ) . He happens to view a television program about the gay life in Egypt in the 20th century , a life that allowed gay relationships and even marriages so along as the men gave up the lifestyle when they eventually married women . His interest in the subject results in a sociology project of interviewing gay Arab men to explore contemporary gay lifestyles . After a few aborted attempts ( Karim is not sufficiently comfortable with the subject matter to gain the trust of his interviewees ) Karim encounters Farid ( Farid Tali ) , a gay , well-adjusted , quietly seductive handsome Algerian lad who not only agrees to be interviewed , but also finds ways to assist Karim with his project . Chemistry develops and the two depart Paris to visit Marseilles and Morocco and Karim discovers why the subject of choice fascinates him so ! The beauty of this film lies in the honesty in which it is written , directed , acted , and edited . Not only are we allowed to explore a subject matter few of us knew ( Islamic homosexuality history and social mores ) , we are also presented with one of the more tender love stories on film - tender because it is not overt but rather because it is so naturally evolved . The actors are excellent and though they feel as though they are first time , off the street recruits , they find the core of the script and make the story beautiful . In French and Arabic with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Quiet , Tender Love Story Celebrates Family	Jeff London ( The Last Year , And Then Came Summer ) is a writer and director who takes on some tough subject matter about the ordinary men in gay life and fashions simple stories that , while not earth shattering , are delicate reminders of the non-sensational aspects of coming to grips with sexuality . In REGARDING BILLY , his best film to date , he has assembled a small cast of fine young actors ( only three ) , and offers a film that for a $20 , 000 . budget and two weeks of shooting time shows how sensitive little movies can be . Opening inside a tent on a camping trip , we meet Billy ( Ronnie Kerr ) and Dean ( Jason Van Eman ) who have been best friends since childhood . Dean announces he has joined the military to address his life stance ( his parents are long gone ) and will be going to Iraq . Billy is obviously sad and both young men begin to tell each other something . . . ' but it can wait until morning ' . In the next scene Billy is seen with his mentally challenged sweet kid brother Johnny ( Jack Sway ) as they have returned from the funeral of their parents who have died in an accident . Billy comforts Johnny and moves back to the home he had left to care for his brother . While Dean is in Iraq he writes Billy and Billy fantasizes about Dean's returning home . When indeed Dean does come back from his tour of duty , injured irreparably in the war , Billy insists that Dean move in with the brothers . Despite the obvious new happiness of the three young men living together , there remains an underlying tension between Billy and Dean , a tension broken only by a moment of confession regarding feelings that is one of the more tender ' coming out ' scenes yet filmed . The film ends as quietly as it begins with the power of love and extended family as the theme . All three of the actors perform well despite a script that calls for excessive crying . Kerr and Van Eman are understated hunks that make the attraction and resolution of the plot completely credible . Yes , there are some awkward lines and shaky moments in the film , but the overall effect is one of a loving product that dares to be sentimental in the face of criticism because the creators obviously believe in the story . REGARDING BILLY is a refreshing change from the usual over the top gay films , a film more about core people than the peripheral characters usually in focus . Recommended . Grady Harp , February 06
Death as an Exodus and an Epiphany	TWO WEEKS may put a lot of viewers off as it deals confrontationally with the issues of death and dying and yet finds the very human humor that always serves as a relief sidebar in stories ( and life incidents ) such as this . Steve Stockman wrote , directed and produced this little film and his inspiration and efforts are well served by a fine ensemble cast . It is a story about dying and the effects the finality of that event have on a family that has dispersed in different directions life . Anita Bergman ( a phenomenally effective Sally Field ) is under hospice care as she faces her last days of dying from gastrointestinal cancer . Knowing that she has little time left she calls upon her four children to return home to North Carolina for goodbyes . Her children are a mixed lot : Keith ( Ben Chaplin ) is a Zen-influenced California man who has decided to video his mother for posterity ; Barry ( Thomas Cavanagh ) is a workaholic who attempts to piece together time for this inconvenient disruption in his work routine ; Matthew ( Glenn Howerton ) is the baby of the family dominated by a tactless wife whom the rest of the family detest ; Emily ( a luminous Julianne Nicholson ) is the sole sister who has collected all the books on the dying process for her brothers ' education and is the stalwart one who holds the family together . Anita divorced the children's father and remarried a quiet man Jim ( James Murtaugh ) who is essentially ignored or tolerated by the children . Anita shares memories , both tender and hilarious , about her life with her family , and as the hospice nurse Carol ( Michael Hyatt ) tenderly leads the children through the instructions regarding final care , the four bond again , become more accepting of their disparate directions , share some very funny conversations to relieve the gloom of the event , and interact more than they have since childhood . By the time of the inevitable event come each of the children and their current father have found vulnerabilities and expanded the tokens of love left to them by Anita , now able to carry out Anita's wishes with a modicum of grace and a lot of warmth . Using the last two weeks of life as a platform for coming together provides the film ample opportunity to address many issues - marriage , children , family , religion , and individuality . The film is balanced by the superb performance of Sally Field on the one end and the wholly realized characterization by Julianne Nicholson on the other end . In many ways it is the continuity between the lives of these two women that make the story memorable . There are some fine lessons to be heard in this film , and the telling of the story is very satisfying to watch . Grady Harp
Multiple Views of Why Francois Ozon is a Fine Director	X2000 ( ' Scenes de lit ' ) is a pastiche of the short films made by Francois Ozon before and during the year 1998 . The excellent collection offers tangible proof that Ozon's gifts were well established in short stories before he tackled the important films he has produced to date : ' Swimming Pool ' , ' Under the Sand ' , ' 8 Women ' , ' 5X2 ' , ' Water Drops on Burning Rocks ' , etc . The man has vision , courage in tackling taboo subjects , and a style that remains his own . ' Truth or Dare ' is a brief 4 minutes of play among four youngsters ( two boys , two girls ) who test the limits of fantasy and sexual exploration and the fun little game ends with a most touching ' dare ' . ' Little Death ' is the longest of the works ( and the most engaging ) and introduces Paul ( Francois Delaive ) , a gay photographer whose images are those of men's faces during climax , and his lover Martial ( Martial Jacques ) whose lives are disrupted by Paul's sister Camille ( Camille Japy ) demanding that Paul visit his estranged , dying father ( Michel Beaujard ) . Paul does so but takes his camera and photographs the nude , near comatose father in a sort of revenge that results in his ultimate resolution of his years of distance . The next set of very brief clips is entitled ' Bedtime Stories ' and is a wonderful glimpse into moments of truth between couples dealing with nascent sexuality , fetishes , May / September encounters , hygiene dilemmas equally spaced among straight , gay and lesbian themes . And the final brief film ' X2000 ' is merely a millennium dawn with a nude man awakening to the detritus of a New Year's party which includes an aging corpulent bedmate , some voyeurism watching a couple at sexual play and another couple ( twin men ) sleeping in a zipped bag . It is simple but resounds with messages about the expectations versus findings of a new millennium . The 64-minute film stands well on its own , but for those who have become fans of Francois Ozon's brilliant full-length films , this little plate of hors d'oeuvres is irresistible . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Testament of a Time Capsule - that hasn't totally dissolved !	COMING OUT is a seventeen-year-old movie , created in East Germany while under Communist rule , about the dangerous milieu in which gay men closeted their identity . It is a stunning achievement in that it presents the agony of coming to grips with sexual identity in a suppressive atmosphere , opening to public viewing the night the Berlin Wall tumbled . With this knowledge the story of these people is all the more heartbreaking with the chance that life for each character would have been different if told a few months later ! The real tragedy is that the story is timeless and universal : the trauma of young people coming out is still potentially as wracked with anguish as the trauma of this film . Philipp ( handsome young Matthias Freihof ) is a popular high school teacher , tightly in the closet , who happens to bump into ( literally ) an open and needy pretty girl Tanya ( Dagmar Manzel ) who immediately invites him to her apartment and introduces him to her bed . They form a comfortable bond , Philipp thinking his sexual identity problem is solved . Then Tanya brings home an old friend , Redford , who Philipp instantly recognizes as a boy with whom he has had hidden sex in the past . Old feelings are aroused and Philipp runs into the night only to end up in a secretive gay bar where he meets Matthias ( handsome young Dirk Kummer ) invites him home , and in a beautifully captured moment has a wholly satisfying physical encounter . Both men are enraptured . Philipp returns to Tanya who questions his evenings ' whereabouts and Philipp manages to keep his secret : the relationship suffers . Philipp has meetings with his mother and during one of these meetings his mother tells him she is sure Tanya is pregnant : she has all the symptoms of morning sickness and ' a woman can tell ' . Philipp , though mortified , declares he will remain with Tanya , and at a party when the couple encounters Matthias ( Philipp and Matthias greet each other with passion ) , Philipp introduces Tanya as his wife . Matthias is shocked and hurt and flees , and outraged Tanya discards Philipp . Philipp roams the streets and parks looking for Matthias , realizing they can now be lovers , but doesn't find him . He instead encounters one of his high school students Lutz ( Robert Hummel ) and has a one-night stand . In a sleazy gay bar Philipp meets an old man ( brilliant actor Werner Dissel ) who relates how life as a gay man during Hitler's reign had resulted in incarceration in a concentration camp , that gay men will always be persecuted . Returning to his classroom Philipp is informed that he is under observation because of his sexual activity . Struck by silence , Philipp stands before his class , his future unknown . This story by Wolfram Witt as directed by Heiner Carow is as fine as any relating the terrors of coming out . That it is performed by such a fine cast is even more impressive , and the real banner that flies over this film is that it doesn't attempt to provide answers or maudlin endings . It merely stops - leaving the futures of each of these well-drawn characters to the imagination of the audience . It is powerful , it is well made , it is worthy of continued appreciation as a brave little film from another period in time , a period that continues into the present in so many places . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Pledge , The Turn , The Prestige : We see what we want to see	Jonathan and Christopher Nolan have collaborated on previous projects ( namely the brilliant MEMENTO ) and here take on Christopher Priest's dazzling novel THE PRESTIGE . Where MEMENTO kept the audience tense and on the edge of the seat and of quizzical mind , THE PRESTIGE attempts to use the same techniques but ends up being an overly long , at times ponderous , and ultimately rather bland examination of illusion and magic and the need audiences have to believe in what they see as an exit route from the mundane lives they lead . The time is turn of the century England ( with a foray into the United States ) when Magic Shows were a popular form of entertainment ( as they still are in Las Vegas ) . Two friends - Borden ( Christian Bale ) and Angier ( Hugh Jackman ) - are both fascinated with illusion and are frequent audience volunteers for magician tricks . The boys become magicians themselves with Borden becoming the superior illusionist and Angier the superior showman . Their rivalry is healthy until an unfortunate illusion / trick fails at the hands of Borden and the loss of the beloved assistant of Angier . From this point the two friends become archenemies , each sworn to discover the secrets of the other , a journey which eventually leads to murder and the ultimate illusion of life over death . There are so many subplots that they defy summation . Suffice it to say that inventors ( electricity scientist Nikola Telsa - David Bowie ) , magic machine creators ( Cutter - Michael Caine ) , wives ( Julia Angier - Piper Perabo and Sarah Borden - Rebecca Hall ) , lovers ( Olivia - Scarlett Johansson ) all weave in and out of the plot , at times illuminating the ideas and at times confusing them . The ending is predictable : it is the only way to explain the Transported Man secret trick . Still , in all , THE PRESTIGE is an entertaining if uninvolving film and while the characters may not make us care very much for them , they are well executed by a strong and literate cast . The production values are what really make the film work . Worth an evening's viewing - a long evening . . . Grady Harp
A Retrospective Look at a Landmark Ruling	NORTH COUNTRY is a tough movie to watch - and that is why it is so fine and important . The story exudes out of the characters surrounding the first class action suit for sexual harassment in the workplace and it would be difficult to imagine a more dour and gritty depiction of what women iron miners faced in Northern Minnesota than that director Niki Caro ( Whale Rider ) has molded out of Clara Bingham's book and Michael Seitzman's screenplay . Though overly long ( in excess of two hours ) the film does successfully drive home its points and its issues . Josey ( Charlize Theron ) is an abused wife who after yet another beating form her husband takes her two children back to her hometown in Northern Minnesota where her mother ( Sissy Spacek ) and disturbing defiant father ( Richard Jenkins ) still view her as an embarrassment to the family : Josey became pregnant at age 16 and states she ' doesn't know the child's father ' . Josey's only concern is to make a living for her children and not be reliant on her parents . She works as a hair washer in a beauty salon until her old friend Glory ( Frances McDormand ) recognizes her and urges her to apply for work in the iron mines were wages are good despite a disturbing atmosphere . Reluctantly Josey agrees to apply , much to her father's disdain , and she moves her children away from her parents to live with Glory and her adoring husband Kyle ( Sean Bean ) . Once at work Josey encounters the disgusting macho miners who constantly sexually harass the female minors . The situation deteriorates until finally Josey cannot tolerate it and she hires the sweet ex hockey athlete turned lawyer Bill ( Woody Harrelson ) to take on her case . What proceeds in the trial for the class action suit and a tough trial it is . The fact that the bravery and courage of Josey and her colleagues results in a ' win ' is almost a given as the film is based on historical fact . Charlize Theron once again delivers a fine performance and in part due to the brilliant support of the supporting cast gives us a character to remember . Frances McDormand , Sissy Spacek and Richard Jenkins deliver superb portrayals and the large supporting cast is first rate . For much of the film the viewer gets the feeling that we've been here before ( many other films about the mines and the traumas here played are familiar ) , but the narrative is powerful and in the end sweeps all others aside as a statement that needed desperately to be made . Recommended . Grady Harp
Important Exposure , Necessary Information	As is obvious in the complex responses to both the book and the film by Errol Morris and Philip Gourevitch , STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE places in our faces some facts we would rather shield than discuss . The story of the period of between September 2003 and February 2004 at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq is so well known not only from the news media but also from the Internet blogging sites that it need not be outlined in a review of this film . The facts documented by photographs taken by those who participated and observed the inhuman treatment of prisoners are indisputable : seeing them on the screen in full frame and in close-up shots is almost more than the compassionate eye can tolerate . But there it is and yes , we do need to witness the abuse and humiliation that describes the US prisoner treatment in Iraq , no matter who is to blame - enlisted personnel , MI , high ranking military officials , the White House . The fact that it occurred as such a gross abuse of human rights should awaken in all of us a more complete awareness that war makes humans do such things . It is ugly to watch , difficult to digest , and extremely trying on our set of beliefs that man's inhumanity to man has and does exist despite our need to believe otherwise . Given the atrocities documented by this film , the style of the film as a work of cinema deserves to be addressed also . The flow of the documentary with the interplay of interview pieces by those infamous young people upon whose shoulders the blame was placed in what appears to be a diversionary technique to avoid deeper probing of the true guilt , along with the images of the prison itself - stark lines of cellblocks and living conditions so foul they seem to actually smell on the screen - is well conceived and beautifully / creatively captured by cinematographers Robert Chappell and Robert Richardson and enhanced by a strangely appropriate musical scoring by Danny Elfman . The film may be about things ugly , but the technique used to tell the story is high quality art . Abu Ghraib , along with Guantanamo , will always be a scar on the conscience of America , even beyond the time that this ugly Iraq war is over . We should all look at this film with the hope that with seeing actual footage of a nightmare may help prevent recurrences in the future . Grady Harp
Within the Sanctity of the Confessional Murder can be Secret	Jonathan Myers makes an impressive film debut as writer / director of CONFESSION , a very well done film that unfortunately went direct to DVD . Though the script is at times a bit clumsy and the control over the arch of emotion from the actors could be tighter , the film succeeds as a thriller , beautifully capturing the mysteries of the Catholic traditions . In a private , expensive Catholic Prep School Luther Scott ( Chris Pine ) is a business minded renegade , supplying the student body with booze , porn movies , and other off limits paraphernalia . His hesitant roommate Robbie ( Lukas Behnken ) assists him but on a turnkey night their partying dorm is visited by the headmaster Father Thomas Parker ( Bruce Davison ) with a potential rich Senator's student son : the party is over . The boys are all subjected to questioning as to the source of the contraband and one student informs on Luther and Robbie and in a fit of anger Luther pushes the student to his death while disguised / dressed as a priest . Luther makes Robbie promise to keep their secret and Luther ' absolves ' himself in the confessional where he admits his murderous act to the kind Father Michael Kelly ( Cameron Daddo ) . Obeying the rules that words said in confessional must remain secret , Father Kelly becomes suspect as the perpetrator and elects to remain silent . The manner in which Luther and Robbie cope with the arrest of an innocent man and the resolution of the crime provide the exciting if a bit predictable conclusion to the story . The cast is variable but generally fine , especially Australian actor Cameron Daddo and young Chris Pine , allowing us to understand the rites of the Church without condescension . The cinematography is moodily atmospheric and the musical score by Ryan Shore admixes ecclesiastic tones with contemporary mood music . Given that this is a first film for Myers it is one worth examining for the potential it carries . Grady Harp
A Strange Admixture of Story and Method	Steve Coogan is irresistibly entertaining in this offbeat film - a movie within a movie that crosses portions of a fine novel with the machinations if turning that novel into a film . Yes , this has been done successfully before , but rarely with the loonieness and candor that suffuses this entertaining insider look at making a novel visual . Director Michael Winterbottom and the entire cast and crew making the film Tristram Shandy follow a script ( by Frank Cottrell Boyce ) , but in a manner that feels like extemporaneous commentary on the 18th century Lawrence Sterne novel . Steve Coogan is introduced as the makeup artists are altering his nose and facial features to reflect those of Tristram while his co-star Rob Brydon is being transformed into the character of Captain Shandy . From conversations about technical aspects of shooting a film the camera splices into actual scenes from the ' movie ' , most of which deal with the birthing of Tristram . The purpose of the film reflects an aspect of the book about a man who is attempting to delve into the history and actions that result in the creation of the title character . The cast is strong : in addition to Coogan and Brydon , the minor roles are filled by Jeremy Northam , Kelly Macdonald , Shirley Henderson , Benedict Wong , Keeley Hawes , Gillian Anderson , Naomie Harris in addition to the costumers and makeup artists as well drawn characters in and of themselves ! For many the film may feel disjointed and meandering , but give into the concept of the delightful mix of shortcuts enhanced by commentary from the actors and crew and this Cock and Bull story is a terrific costume period piece romp . It is just meant to be fun and full of chuckles . Grady Harp
Period of Adjustment : Coping with Sudden Loss	La vie quand même ( LIFE AFTER ALL ) is another film in a series collectively called ' Tales from the Orphanage ' . The story is simple on the surface ( children coping with the sudden loss of parents ) , but in the hands of writer Sophie Tasma and director Olivier Péray this storyline unfolds a tale of brotherly love that is well worth watching . The film opens with a family argument between father ( Laurent Olmédo ) and mother ( Françoise Michaud ) , a scene that is apparently routine in this disturbed household . But this time the couple's two children 18-year-old Vincent ( Mathieu Tribes ) and 11-year-old Lucien ( Maxime Monsimier ) not only overhear the fight but Vincent defies his father in a stringent manner . The mother attempts to assuage the situation as the parents are leaving on a trip . But once the parents leave they are killed in an accident and the two boys are informed of the abrupt loss . Vincent loves Lucien and vows to remain his legal guardian so that Lucien will not be placed in a foster home or orphanage . The two boys react differently to their new life without parents : 1 ) Vincent begins to sleep with his girlfriend Jessica ( Clémence Poésy ) and at the same time tries to lose his thoughts in a consignation with longtime neighbor Marion ( Marianne Basler ) , all the while dealing with social workers , convincing them he is a fit guardian for Lucien . and 2 ) Lucien begins to act out his pain in antisocial behavior , following a delusional path that his parents are not only still alive but are still at home with Lucien and Vincent . How each brother works through the guilt ( Vincent ) and broken spirit ( Lucien ) of the loss of their parents forms the line of the conclusion of the film . The power of brotherly love is palpable and manages to provide avenues of coping with tragic loss . The film's weakness is in the pacing of the story with too much time being devoted to Vincent's escapades and insufficient development of Lucien's character and transformation . Despite these flaws this is a touching film of significant situational reactions played in a realistic manner . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' You think you are changing a tribe , until the tribe changes you '	From the opening scenes of FIERCE PEOPLE ( an interplay of tribal customs as photographed by the anthropologist father of the young narrator Finn Earl , demonstrating why this South American tribe of Ishkanani is so fierce ) the direction of the film is nebulous : are we watching a dark comedy about comparing life in the New York streets to uncivilized peoples , or is this a message film of a more serious intent ? But as the story develops this fine line between entertainment and philosophical impact becomes increasingly clear . Griffin Dunne's direction of Dirk Wittenborn's adaptation of his novel may be a bit careless at times as it strays from rational plot development , but in the end there is a strong enough final impact to patch up the holes he created . Our narrator Finn Earl ( Anton Yelchin ) lives with his coke-addicted masseuse / sexually obsessed mother Liz ( Diane Lane ) in New York , waiting for the summer when he is to join his anthropologist father on a field trip to South America ( a father he knows only from letters and videos ) , when a drug bust abruptly changes their lives : one of Liz's wealthy clients Ogden Osborne ( Donald Sutherland ) rescues the down and out family and moves them to his ten acre estate , the epitome of wealth and power . In exchange for being Osborne's private masseuse , Liz and Finn can live in the mansion with the ' filthy rich ' Osbornes - daughter Mrs . Langley ( Elizabeth Perkins ) and grandchildren Bryce ( Chris Evans ) and Maya ( Kristen Stewart ) . Osborne and his physician lead Liz on the drying out path and Finn bonds with Osborne and his grandchildren , and despite the disparity in poor versus wealthy , the living situation works - for a while . Incidents occur to alter feelings and Finn is attacked and raped by a masked assailant , a turning point for the film and Finn's view of the Osborne family . Osborne reveals his past to Finn and together they manage to discover the truth about Finn's troubling incident - and also about the fierce disease of the wealthy class . The film uses many clips of tribal activity during the film , drawing some disturbing parallels for some of the more challenging scenes . For this viewer that works well , but when the director elects to place tribal individuals in full regalia within the context of the Osborne estate , the concept feel contrived , as though the audience has to be forced to ' get it ' . The various subplots between maid Jilly ( Paz de la Huerta ) and Finn and the introduction of an obese retarded chalk artist Whitney ( Branden Williams ) push the credibility edge of emphasizing the line between the wealthy and the ' lower class ' , but the performances by Sutherland , Lane , and Yelchin are strong enough to make us forgive the film's lapses . Not a great film but one with a lot of worthy ideas splashed around on the screen of a project that often feels lost in its struggle for direction . Grady Harp
Acts of Love	NEVER FOREVER is a well-developed , well-written and well-directed film by Gina Kim , and with an actress with the stature of Vera Farmiga in the difficult lead role , it is frustrating to see that this fine film didn't last on theater screens . But as with many of the other treasurable small independent films , this one feels even better in the privacy of the home - the small screen somehow allows the powerful emotions of the story to be more focused . Sophie ( Vera Farmiga ) is the beautiful Caucasian wife of wealthy and respected Korean Andrew ( David Lee McInnis ) and the couple seem to have it all - looks , a close-knit family , beautiful home , etc . - but there is an underlying tension : Sophie and Andrew have been unable to conceive and bear a child , a fact that troubles Andrew's very orthodox Christian family and profoundly affects Andrew's sense of worth . Though the couple has sought professional assistance , their marriage remains barren . Andrew's fragile stance results in a suicide attempt and in trying to correct the cause of this tragedy , Sophie decides she will attempt to conceive from a donor . Because both members of a couple must consent to artificial insemination , Sophie's plan is thwarted except for one aspect : visiting the clinic she has selected is a young Korean man named Jihah ( Jung-woo Ha ) who is attempting to be a sperm donor but is rejected because he is an illegal immigrant . Overhearing this exchange , Sophie follows Jihah and finally discovers where he lives . She approaches him with a business deal - she will pay him $300 . for each session and when she becomes pregnant she will pay him $30 , 000 . Jihah is shy at first , but he is working in a meat packing plant and dry cleaners trying to save enough money to bring his girlfriend from Korea to the USA . Desperate for money Jihah consents and Sophie begins her visits to him when her cycle is conducive to conception . The relationship is one of quick polite encounters , careful to avoid interpersonal factors that might make either partner uncomfortable . But a sense of interdependence evolves , and when Sophie achieves pregnancy , the couple decides to part ways . Sophie's pregnancy at first overjoys Andrew and his family and the couple's future looks bright . But both Sophie and Jihah are unable to dismiss the intimacy of the relationship they have developed , Andrew discovers Sophie's adventure , and the marriage falls apart while Jihah informs his girlfriend in Korea that he will never be able to bring her to America . At this vulnerable point the film simply ends - some years later Sophie is at the beach with her son and is again very pregnant and the viewer is left to decide the resolution . Vera Farmiga is even more beautiful in this role than her many other roles and never for a moment loses out empathy and understanding of the decisions she makes . Both of the men are strong as are the various actors who flesh out the film . This is a tough topic to relate , but writer / director Gina Kim allows the acts of love to be the memorable echo the film leaves behind . Grady Harp
Noises Within , Noises Without	There are a few flaws in this otherwise successful film that is in fact as frightening as the trailer makes it out to be . Not being one for the constant barrage of thriller films ( the ' Saw ' Series , the endless vampire variations , ' I know what you did . . . ' , etc ) this viewer hesitantly watched what could have been yet another exercise in blood and gore . But surprise ! The story ( based on a true incident in 2005 as outlined by an off camera narrator discussing the number of violent deaths in America each year before the film opens ) is tight , credible , and deals more with the emotion of terror of the unknown than images of gore . Kudos to writer / director Bryan Bertino for finding the core of the macabre . And it is true ! James Hoyt ( Scott Speedman ) is driving his girlfriend Kristen MacKay ( Liv Tyler ) to the isolated summer home in the woods that James and his best friend Mike ( Glenn Howerton ) had earlier decorated with rose petals , candles and champagne in preparation for what was supposed to be a celebration of a marriage proposal . Sadness prevails in the car as Kristen has turned James ' proposal down . They quietly enter the decorated house , and almost immediately begin to hear sounds outside and a door knock by a young girl apparently looking for a person not living in this house . Kristen asks James to go out and get her cigarettes and the creepy action begins . Three strangers each in masks terrify Kristen with noises , secretly entering the house , and creating a tense atmosphere until James returns . At this point the story becomes an almost unbearable sequence of events : it is clear the strangers are out to murder James and Kristen . Bound and beaten by the three strangers Kristen asks ' Why us ? Why do you want to kill us ? ' and the simple answer from of the strangers is ' Because you're home ' . The ending of the film could have been better handled by someone telling us the results of the night - the follow up to this true story . But instead Bertino elects to keep the level of terror high . Peter Sova ( cinematographer ) finds the right amount of shadow and dark to keep us guessing and the musical score by tomandandy is pitch perfect . This is a fine little film , but be prepared to jump in a few spots . . . and keep the lights on ! Grady Harp
The Tragedy of Argentina's " Desaparecidos "	Argentina's Dirty War and the regime of the Generals from 1976 to 1983 is one of the dark secrets of history and has been examined by poets , writers such as Colm Toibin ( and here , Lawrence Thornton in his novel from which the film was adapted ) , and journalists . And yet the silence about this period of time is deafening , especially since the amnesty this past June releasing the perpetrators from all responsibility of this terrifying activity and time in Argentina . Now , with the current ' silencing ' of our own covert CIA activities and tortures in the name of a fight against terrorism , this overlooked film takes on particular potency . And for whatever reasons the film doesn't succeed as a great movie , at least it is a red flag bravely waving . In 1976 the intellects , professors , journalists and writers began disappearing , kidnapped , taken to secret hideaways , tortured , raped , and disposed of all in the guise of protecting the viability of the military regime . Carlos ( Antonio Banderas ) runs a children's theater and is married to Cecilia ( Emma Thompson ) who writes articles about the " desaparecidos " despite the warnings from Carlos and their close friends Silvio ( Rubén Blades ) and Esme ( Maria Canals ) . Their daughter Teresa ( Leticia Dolera ) is a young girl who is conflicted about the feelings of her parents in this scandalized government . Cecilia is abducted , becomes one of the dreaded desaparecidos , and Carlos commits himself to finding her . He discovers he has clairvoyant powers and holds meetings in his garden to help parents and loved ones of the desaparecidos to cope . Working with Teresa he tries to envision Cecilia's whereabouts and the film's dénouement and conclusion deal with this breathless seeking . The acting if good as expected from this cast . The direction is fast paced , but the problem is one of distance from the passion of Carlos . For some reason Banderas elected to keep such a low profiles that his desperation to find Cecilia is somewhat muted . But as stated above the real success of this fine little film is the message it carries and that message is too close to home to ignore . The musical score and cinematography ( and the incidental wonderful Tango dancing ) are superb . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Touch of Pink and Touch of Class !	Ian Iqbal Rashid is a sensitive director who is bringing the two poles of Indian Bollywood and Indie ' Hollywood ' closer together . In TOUCH OF PINK he has taken the best of both and created a tender , charming , warmly funny tale of the struggle of a Pakistani young cameraman Alim ( Jimi Mistry ) in coming to grips with his sexuality . Yes , the story has been done many times , but rarely with the genuine tenderness Rashid has found . Alim , a transplanted Pakistani youth born in Kenya , raised in Toronto , Canada and living in London , has a guardian angel in the form of Cary Grant ( Kyle MacLachlan ) who has replaced his father he never knew and who is his constant companion in his flat in London - giving advice Alim wants to hear while acting as a curtain to shield Alim from the more difficult facts of his being an openly gay male . Alim is in love with Giles ( Kristen Holden-Ried ) and they live a happy life together - until Alim's mother Nuru ( Suleka Mathew ) comes to pay them a visit . Nuru has lived alone since her husband's death , always longing for a fantasy life of fleeing the restrictions of Indian culture to become a star like Doris Day . Her life is one of frustration and her hopes for something better seem to rest on her only son Alim's getting married so that Nuru can compete with her sister currently planning an extravagant wedding for her own son Khaled . Once in London , Nuru finds Alim cold , living with a British man , and finds her hopes for a possible wedding quashed . Giles takes the reluctant Nuru for a shopping and dancing day and wins her heart . But when Nuru finally discovers Alim's secret , she leaves London , hurt , sad , and despondent . Giles is angry with Alim's harsh handling of their relationship and leaves Alim to the sole companionship of his Cary Grant . Through a series of discoveries and introspection Alim flies to Toronto to the wedding of his cousin , to appease Nuru , and there Pandora's Box opens resulting is a series of surprises that bring the actions to resolution . Though many will have seen the end coming , for those who have not seen the movie , telling the plot ending would be a sad disservice ! The dialogue is smart , the use of the Cary Grant guardian angel is excellent ( especially given the fine performance by Kyle MacLachlan ) , and the characters as portrayed by this talented and attractive cast are indeed lovable . This is a feel-good movie , a fine statement about being true to one's self , and a healthy look at gay relationships that are not either 1 ) candy coated or 2 ) sadistic or doomed . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Exhilaration and Devastation of First Love	' Was nützt die Liebe in Gedanken ' ( ' Love in Thoughts ' ) , while based on a true incident in Berlin in 1927 , is a story about the confusion of adolescent hormonally driven needs and desires brought to the screen by director Achim von Borries based on a dramatization by Hendrik Handloegten , Annette Hess and Alexander Pfeuffer of the Steglitz Student murders . It is as much a tale of the decadent 20s in the Berlin that would breed the Nazi Party as it is a stirring thriller . And if think back to the times of this story , a similar theme was being played out in this country under the names of Leopold and Loeb ! Strange crossover . . . Paul ( Daniel Brühl ) is a student poet from a working class family who makes friends with Günther ( August Diehl ) who is a gay and wild romantic from the wealthy class . Their common thread is their sense of rebellion against their families and the need for Byronic defiance in a world they find shallow . The make a ' suicide pact ' - that once they discover true happiness in love , and knowing that true love cannot be repeated , they will commit suicide . The two lads go to the country home for a weekend party of drinking and carousing . Günther brings along his love Hans ( Thure Lindhardt ) , a kitchen worker clearly not in Günther's social class , who begins having a sexual liaison with Hilde ( Anna Maria Mühe ) , Günther's lusty , superficial , hedonistic sister . Paul is in love with Hilde , but at the party he observes her acts of sexual freedom and turns to plain Elli ( Jana Pallaske ) for his initial sexual encounter . When Günther realizes he has lost Hans to Hilde , the options of the ' suicide pact ' play out in a gruesome way . Paul is left to tell the story , later becoming a novelist ( condemned by the Nazis and thrown into exile ) . Achim von Borries manages to recreate this sick tale with all the feeling of Weimar decadence . It takes a while to get the characters straight , but once they are in place the development of each has a fearsome momentum . The young cast is excellent . It is refreshing to see a film that includes a gay main character whose sexuality is at the core of his life but at the same time the story is not focused on the gay character so much as being focused on all youth in a cumbersome time in history and in adolescent physiology ! The film is in German with English subtitles and presents the actual events of the case in writing on the screen after the story is completed . Very Effective . Grady Harp
After a Slow Start , Australia is Excellent	Baz Luhrmann needed to re-think his overly long epic of life in Australia during WW II : The first hour of this 165 minute film comes across as caricature with Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman being introduced as rather overblown , preposterous characters about whom the audience could care less . But then suddenly the mood changes , the film becomes tender and real and issues of importance are treated well and presto ! - an entirely different film is on the screen . It would be interesting to see this film edited by a major editor who could comb away the extraneous silliness of the beginning and make this film far more dramatic and solid . Though the film begins in 1939 and continues into 1941 , it feels like an old American Western flick with cattle drives , and rancher disputes and the development of a classy Lady Sarah Ashley ( Nicole Kidman ) from England traveling to her husband's ranch in Australia to face the failing of her inheritance , becoming involved with the politics of her competitor , finding support from her household of Aborigines who manage her ranch with the able assistance of a rowdy Drover ( Hugh Jackman ) . One important key element in the film is the emphasis on half-breed children ( half Aborigine , half Caucasian ) who are called creamies and who are shunned by both sides of their inherited genes . One lad Nullah ( Brandon Walter ) feels he has no one who cares for him outside of a kindly spirit grandfather King George ( David Gulpilil ) who gives him support from the shadows of the hills of the Aboriginal land . The interesting part of the film is the manner in which this young boy pulls the other characters together , even during the Japanese invasion in 1941 . At this point the film becomes an epic worth watching and one accompanied by warmth and tenderness as evil is destroyed and the milk of human kindness rises . Once out of their caricature beginnings , Kidman and Jackman ( and Walter ) give fine performances . They are aided by some fine effects from cinematographer Mandy Walker and by a musical score by David Hirschfelder that mixes excerpts from ' Somewhere over the rainbow ' with Bach's Hunt Cantata BWV 208 ( ' Sheep may safely graze ' ) and of course the wondrously emotional Nimrod from Elgar's ' Enigma Variations ' . There are elements of information about racism and greed that are treated well . And by the time this lengthy film is over the audience is left satisfied . So 10 stars for the second part of this movie and 2 - 3 stars for the first hour gives if a 8 star overall rating . Grady Harp
Don't Pass This Little Film By	Jim ' You Don't Have to be Blind to See ' Stovall is an inspirational writer who in 2001 published a little book by the name of THE ULTIMATE GIFT in which he transposed many of his motivational teachings into a novel form , a story of how a tape of a dying man can alter the life of a crassly money-centric young grandson leading him through trials and challenges to teach him the meaning of life . Now THE ULTIMATE GIFT comes to the screen / DVD and before making the groaning judgment that here is yet another insipid little tale about learning life's lessons and gaining some spirituality in the process , try watching this two hour traversal of well acted and well scripted ( Cheryl McKay ) and well directed ( Michael O . Sajbel ) input . There is a lot more to the film than the grinches might think ! A wealthy man Red Stevens ( James Garner ) has amassed a fortune , turning his personal life into a shambles in the process and producing a family of greedy ruthless gluttons - with one exception : one son rebelled and lost his life to dreams despite the aspirations of the father . Red has just died and the will is read by Red's longtime partner and lawyer Ted ( Bill Cobbs ) and his devoted assistant Miss Hastings ( Lee Meriwether ) : the family is outraged at the results of Red's division of his fortune and the one person who is left to learn of the will's content is Red's egocentric grandson Jason ( Drew Fuller ) . Through a taped interview just prior to his death Red outlines the twelve lessons Jason must learn if he is to inherit anything . And here begins the episodic journey during which Jason learns about poverty , compassion , friends , death , and spirituality that changes Jason into a full human being and creates a character who gives back more than he gets . Along the way Jason encounters work-ethic Gus ( Brian Dennehy ) , a little girl Emily dying from leukemia ( Abigail Breslin ) whose sharp wit and tongue manifest wisdom that leads to the bonding of Jason and Emily's mother Alexia ( Ali Hillis ) , and host of other character actors in the various parts of the world where Jason's journey takes him . Yes , the plot is predictable , and yes , the tenor of the piece borders on soap opera at times , but the end result is an examination of life that is told with enough fine humor and realistic dialog that it works . If viewers pass by this DVD because they fear it is just another sappy lecture , they will miss the pleasure of entering the realm of tender communication delivered with style and sincerity . And we all need that , especially now . . . Grady Harp
A Well Done , Professional Comedy with an Understated Powerful Message	The added features on this very entertaining DVD of the brisk and light comedy WEDDING WARS bear watching : the producers , director and actors make the case for the approach of this quality film in tackling the issue of rights for gay marriage in a manner that could not offend anyone and at the same time create a more serious vantage from which to view the controversy . It is the only time in the ' film ' that politics is the issue , a factor that makes the actual viewing of the story far more powerful . Credit the writer Stephen Mazur and director Jim Fall for a creating a frothy , fun story that has much more at its core than just entertainment . Ben Grandy ( Eric Dane ) works as the campaign manager for the Governor of Maine ( James Brolin ) and proposes to the governor's daughter Maggie ( Bonnie Sommerville ) . The wedding will be at the waterside mansion of the Governor and when the need for a wedding planner is raised , Maggie insists they ask Shel Grandy ( John Stamos ) , the openly gay brother of Ben , who as a party planner has always dreamed of doing a wedding . Shel is in a successful relationship with state prosecutor Ted ( Sean Moore ) who remains in the closet for career reasons . Shel jumps at the chance to do the wedding , hoping that in some way this event will mend the schism with his big brother who has been distant since Shel informed him he was gay . All goes well until Ben writes a speech for the Governor in which the Governor states he is against gay marriage . Shel is stunned , gathers up his plans for the wedding and begins a private strike for gay marriage , a strike that with television and media coverage soon spreads across the entire USA , the result being the closure of beauty salons , florists , restaurants , limo services ( and all the stereotype gay run businesses , unfortunately ) . The crisis is ultimately resolved in a humorous yet very touching manner and to reveal more would diminish the impact for the viewer . John Stamos is superb as the radical Shel , but everyone in the cast is completely professional - James Brolin , Eric Dane , Bonnie Sommerville , Sean Maher , Claire Welling , Sean McCann , Jane Eastwood , Linda Kash , etc . The production qualities are polished , the story flows along at a fast clip , and in the end there are moments of truth that poignantly emphasize human rights to happiness for everyone . Would that there were more films of this caliber to deliver social comment without the preaching so often associated with message films . It is a delight to watch . Grady Harp
An Insight to the Conflicting Problems in the Middle East	THE SYRIAN BRIDE would probably best be appreciated by those who understand the intricacies of border rules and inter-country regulations that dominate the plot of this well made but a bit obtuse film . The story takes place on the wedding day of a beautiful bride , a Druze woman in Majd Alshams , a pro-Syrian village located in the conflicted Golan heights ( factions pro-Syrian and pro-Israeli live uncomfortably in Druze villages ) . Our bride is to marry ( by arrangement - she has never met him ) a Syrian TV soap opera celebrity . The problem arises in that this will be the last time that she sees her family as once she crosses the border into Syria accepting Syrian citizenship , she can never return to the Golan Heights to see her family . The wedding is further complicated by the return visit of her brother who has been away for 8 years having married a Russian by whom he has a son : the brother and the son are in conflict . And to make things worse , the paperwork at the border to allow the bride to join her husband to be in the wedding is held up by political paperwork . How all of these factors impact the bride's future is played out by the families on both sides . The script tries to make the story seem credible but to those of us who still don't understand the intricacies of the territorial parceling of that area of the world or the traditions of Arab marriage etc , this plot seems ponderous and heavy . The actors are all excellent and there is something in each character with which we can identify . A little background on customs before the film begins would have helped immensely as the movie itself is very well done . Grady Harp
Havana , The City Lost , As Recalled Through Song	THE LOST CITY represents a 16-year dream come true for Director Andy Garcia . As he conversationally explains in a very fine addendum to the DVD of his film , this film is an obsession , a work of love that allowed him to revisit the country of his birth through understanding the changes through the sounds of intoxicating music . If at times this movie seems to lag in storyline because of all the interruptive musical numbers , those lags are some of the finest part of this richly colorful , beautifully photographed ( in the Dominican Republic ) , well written by Guillermo Cabrera Infante romantic view of Cuba's turbulent history in the 1950s . Fico Fellove , owner of the famous Tropico nightclub in 1958 Havana , is a member of a wealthy , intensely close family who despite any other commitments meet for dinners at 6 PM sharp each day . But there is revolution in the air and the family , headed by father Tomas Milian , mother Millie Perkins , uncle Richard Bradford , and sons Luis ( Nestor Carbonell ) with wife Aurora ( Ines Satre ) and Ricardo ( Enrique Murciano ) react in varying ways . As Batista's dictatorship begins to be challenged the family responds : Ricardo aligns with Fidel Castro and Che Guevara ( intensely portrayed by fine actor Jsu Garcia ) while Luis aligns with counterrevolutionaries . While the battle builds Fico is fighting his own inner wars with big time crime - Meyer Lansky ( Dustin Hoffman ) who wants to alter his club , and the soldiers who would abuse his Tropico , kill his lead singer , and murder his close friend Captain Castel ( Steven Bauer ) . The Revolution happens and the story is centered on how it disseminates the Fellove family . While Fico's brothers struggle Fico decides to escape to America , leaving behind all that he loved - family , Aurora whom he promised Luis he would marry if Luis died , and the memories conjured by the Cuban music . How the tale ends is understood and appreciated best by Cuban exiles , but Garcia brings those feelings of mixed emotions about Cuba pre and post revolution to all of us . There are many interesting sidebars to this film : Bill Murray plays ' the writer ' who seems to be a mixture of a Greek chorus and Fico's sublimated self ; the tobacco / cigar industry is carefully examined ; the ' face ' of the Fidel regime is focused in the personage of soldier / guard Miliciana Muñoz ( Elizabeth Peña ) who embodies the totalitarian downside of the promised ' revolution ' . And the musical numbers , well choreographed , designed , and performed , serve as inserted relief in the more tense moments - such as the storming of Batista's palace . The movie clocks in at 2 hours and while it seems there is little that could have been excised form the original , certainly more character motivation and development would have made for a better understanding of the plot . But in all this is a movie made out of love by a fine cast and shows Garcia as a capable director in his first directorial outing . And oh the music !
A Dark , Tense , Atmospheric German Thriller	LAUTLOS ( Soundless ) is yet another film by Director / writer Mennan Yapo ( with writing assists form Lars-Olaf Beier ) that takes on a story of a hit man on his last job and makes it into a fine psychological thriller . The cinematography , lighting , music and pacing of this strangely dark film provide an excellent background for a superb cast of actors . Viktor ( Joachim Król ) is an aging hit man , a perfectionist whose reputation as a genius killer includes the fact that he works so well that he is soundless in his paid executions . We are privy to his mind's working as he focuses on his last hit , a man with a lady in his room Nina ( the very beautiful Nadja Uhl ) whose life he spares in the hit , an act of emotional response to the beautiful woman but an act that causes his employer to set a mark on him for his failure . Viktor saves Nina from suicide and the two become enchanted with each other . Viktor has found love at the end of his career as a murderer : Nina wants to get to know Viktor better before committing to his advances . Enter the police headed by the brilliant Lang ( Christian Berkel ) who is determined to capture Viktor by studying his patterns and mind tracings . Viktor and Nina are on the run but with a goal - that they will join at the sea and leave the life of crime . But before this can happen they must go through a literal wall of flames ( a touch of Wagner , here ) . How the cat and mouse chase comes into play and resolves is the satisfying end to this polished little thriller . Król , Uhl , and Berkel ( in addition to a fine supporting cast ) make this tense drama intimate and penetrating and Yapo's direction keeps the pace breathless . This is a fine little thriller in German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Tables Turning	SIMON is a little jewel of a film . In a manner more typically Dutch than most it is an exploration of the interaction of two men , opposites in almost every way except in their potential power of friendship . Camiel is a gay , tender , polite , dental student while Simon is straight , seemingly critical of gay aspects ( though always with tongue in cheek ) , noisy , outspoken , crafty , boisterous and a bit crude café owner . The two collide in an accident , an act that bonds them inextricably , and the film shows the two polar opposites reconnecting fourteen years later when Simon is dying of cancer and calls upon all his resources and involves Camiel in the difficult process of life's ending . Simon's strength of character ( despite his previous outwardly bombastic and crude manner ) gives Camiel much to learn - and gives the audience some touching and tender thoughts on which to dwell . The film is a fun , at times naughty , smart , and ultimately life-affirming tale about the importance of friendship and family . . . and a strong sense of humor . . . that are the stuff that allow us to survive even the most difficult of moments in life . The entire cast is excellent but the performances by Cees Geel as Simon and Marcel Hensema as Camiel Vrolijk are worthy of awards . This is an extravagantly fun film , completely open and honest about its sexuality , that results in a memorable emotional experience for the viewer . In Dutch with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Seeds of Gregg Araki's Genius	Tracing the progress of innovative filmmakers is a pleasure for movie buffs . Gregg Araki developed a unique voice in film in the early 1990s ( this film dates back to 1993 ) , a voice that maintained a sense of immediacy with his actors who he directed with his hand held camera in a manner that gave the illusion that the ' script ' was extemporaneous . Careful not to assign controversial roles to inadequate talent , Araki gathered a group of young actors and pulled the very best from them . Many of these early actors still maintain presence in Araki's prolific flow of films . As is so often the case with Araki's stories , TOTALLY FED UP deals with gay sensibilities in a way that displays the entire spectrum of positive and negative response to his characters . He does not preach : he simply voyeuristically reveals lifestyles as though he were a hidden personage who just happened to fall into private moments and turbulent emotions . In this film Araki divides the examination of six teenage gay kids ( four boys and two girls ) into 15 dialogues , each representing an aspect of what faces his characters and how they cope with being on the fringe . The 15 episodes are related because the characters remain the same and it is this unique manner of making his story that has continued to be a trait of Araki's later , more linear films . We meet each of the six characters in an interview situation , with only the minimal amount dialogue conveying the maximum amount of information . The primary character is Andy ( a superlative James Duval ) whose view of life is bleak to say the least : Andy doesn't believe in love , in commitment , believes he is bisexual even though he has never stepped out of his same-sex playing out , grows to depend on his friends , falls in love with a sweet talking fellow Ian ( Alan Boyce ) only to discover Ian is not at all monogamous , and finally feels the pain of heartbreak and makes a decision about life that ends the film . The other characters include Michele ( Susan Behshid ) and Patricia ( Jenee Gill ) who are lesbian lovers and stable figures for the boys , desiring to have children and a wholesome life without the need for male penetration ! ; Steven ( Gilbert Luna ) and Deric ( Lance May ) who are coupled but come apart when Steven has an affair and Deric is gay-bashed ; and Tommy ( Roko Belic ) , the one who falls in love too easily with every one night stand he has . The episodes deal with the characters ' sexual attitudes , AIDS , life on the streets , drugs , parental alienation , loneliness , abuse , suicide , and the desperate need for extended family . With Araki's technique we come to care strongly for each of these disparate kids : by the end of the film they feel like close personal friends of ours . The filming technique is choppy and slips out of focus and seems to idle like a malfunctioning engine at times , but in Araki's sensitive hands these aspects add to the tension of the story . Clearly Gregg Araki is a gifted artist , and his films subsequent to this successful one serve to prove his growth and increased power of heart to heart communication . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Relationshipe and how to form and keep them	STRAYS ( or DOORMEN as his script was initially titled ) marks the entry of Vin Diesel ( AKA Mark Sinclair Vincent ) into the film world in a very small budget ( under $50 , 000 . ) , independent 1997 movie he wrote , directed and acted the major role . To appreciate this very realistic , modest , slice of New York life the film presents , it helps to watch the features added to the DVD ( the film is released to the public for the first time ) : interviews with the cast and with Diesel give a sensitive and heartwarming background that enhances the movie experience . Though Diesel studied acting and worked in theater in New York prior to this film , it was not until he made his own film that he captured the attention of the people who make things happen . And now that Vin Diesel is a major Hollywood presence it is fascinating to see this initial opener . The plot is simple enough : Rick ( Diesel ) is a minor drug dealer who also works as a bouncer with his buddy Tony ( F . Valentino Morales ) , and hangs with Fred ( Joey Dedio ) and his ' brother ' ( Mike Epps , in his first role in film ) . The guys live mainly for easy sex and camaraderie - all of the have been raised by mothers without knowing their fathers ( thus , are ' strays ' ) . As Rick matures he grows tired of his shallow lifestyle , misses the connection with his mother he never developed , and is prime bait for a relationship . Into his life steps Heather ( Suzanne Lanza ) , a wholesome Midwestern girl , the two have a mutual attraction , but as their courtship dance progresses Heather disapproves of Rick's at times gang-like behavior and his drug dealing . They come together in an extended park bench conversation ( excellent writing ) during which they realize they each have repairs to do on their previous lives before they can enter a serious relationship . One aspect of this little film that makes it a cut above the many others like it is the quality of natural acting Diesel draws from his cast : uncredited female actors who provide the sex interest for the men are variably excellent , and Morales , Dedio and Lanza are particularly strong in their commitment to ensemble acting . The script is fairly strong , though the barrage of expletives becomes tiresome after a while . Yet in the end , Diesel establishes his skills as a serious actor and as a fine director and writer , and for the chance to see one of Hollywood's major talents in his nascent stage , this film is well worth watching . Grady Harp
Notes from the Other Side	Not being a James Bond addict this viewer approached CASINO ROYALE in the quiet of the home with the DVD form of the film . For the first time the unique appeal of this 007 character makes sense under Daniel Craig's interpretation . Prior Bond films with the varied actors who have portrayed him have gone for the slick , tricky , smart killing machine whose eyes seemed always on the outlook for the next gorgeous babe he treated with little respect except for physical favors . The various villainous characters seemed to blend and the stories appeared to be more interested in that tired musical soundtrack theme and carnage than they were in character development . Enter Daniel Craig , all buff and uber-masculine , and the beginnings of James Bond's character are explained in a touching manner , making this machine-like concept a deeper being . Of course , credit must go to director Martin Campbell working with an intelligent script by Neal Purvis and Robert Wade which travels Craig's Bond from Uganda , to the Bahamas , Miami , Montenegro and Venice . The chief bad guy this round is Le Chiffre ( Mads Mikkelsen ) who complete with scarred blind eye and cruel gaze is Bond's nemesis . Judi Dench turns in another strong performance as the ubiquitous ' M ' on charge of 007's ventures and along the way Bond meets such good / bad characters as Giancarlo Giannini , Jeffrey Wright , and the very elegant and stylish French actress Eva Green whose complex character provides all the information we needed to know about James Bond's view of women . CASINO ROYALE is a strong 2 hour film that for this viewer makes James Bond an interesting character in addition to being a suave stunt / lady-killer man . Daniel Craig is in fine form ( literally ) and proves his mettle here . This viewer will see the next Bond / Craig film in the theaters ! Grady Harp
Hints of Treasures to Come	Two Chinese lovers drift around Buenos Aires , attempting to come to grips with a relationship that is clearly on the skids in this interesting and frustrating film ' Cheun gwong tsa sit ' ( Happy Together ) by the very talented Kar Wai Wong . On vacation from Hong Kong , Yiu-Fai ( Tony Leung ) and Po-Wing ( Leslie Cheung ) are presented in an obviously unhappy state , but we are not privy to the cause of their unhappiness . Yes , there is infidelity , there are outside attractions , and all of the ' things ' that could create this state , but we are left to look at this sad young couple as a metaphor for the struggles in emotions and loves that so often surface in a dying relationship , not only in the gay relationship we are seeing but in straight relationships as well . The universals hold true . Kar Wai Wong loves the non-linear approach to story telling and in this early film the method of his direction feels a bit too disjointed , too uninvolved in the character development . Not that the actors do not render fine performances : both Leung and Cheung give brave portrayals of lost souls and we cannot help but care for both of them . And the remainder of the cast is on target ( Chen Chang and Gregory Dayton ) . What holds the little hints of greatness that were to come ( this film dates back to 1997 ) is suggested in the lighting and camera work , both of which provide as major a role in the film as the actors and chaotic storyline . The unity of mood and story is solidly at one in this little film , showing us just how creative the writer director was to become .
A Surprisingly Fine Little Film About Adolescent Growth	THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS ( if you haven't read the novel by Ann Brashares ) sounds like another silly , goofy chick flick , a made for summer popcorn movie for teenage girls to love and teenage boys to tolerate . But the title should NOT prevent the general audience from experiencing a truly tender , warm , balanced film about four teenage girlfriends bonded by a magical pair of jeans . There are four stories here , each centered on the summer experiences of the four girls who go off in different directions and discover a lot about themselves and life : Lena ( Alexis Bledel ) follows family ties to Greece , encountering ' tradition vs love ' with Kostas ( Michael Rady , a newcomer whose looks and screen presence bode well for a fine career ! ) ; Bridget ( Blake Lively ) finds a balance of love and soccer in Mexico ; Carmen ( America Ferrera ) explores family ties and body image in a new stepmother ; Tibby ( Amber Tamblyn ) works the summer in ' Wallmans ' and pursues her passion for documentary film-making which just happens to include a real life drama . So why do these simple tales make a movie ? Each of the girls represents the delicate issues that teenagers encounter as they move into adulthood , and the manner in which director Ken Kwapis intertwines these stories through the common bond of the four girls ' friendship works on every level . There is a sense of fresh talent , fresh writing , fresh direction , and sensitive acting that make this movie one to be recommended to a large audience . A fine little coming of age film . Grady Harp , October 05
' People change , Jack , people can change '	A surprisingly good little thriller , 16 BLOCKS provides a tight , minimalist script , fine directing , excellent camera work , and standout performances by Bruce Willis , Mos Def , and David Morse . It is enough of a twist on the usual cop chase films to make it fresh , exciting , intelligent and touching . Jack Mosley ( Bruce Willis ) is an old drunk , a cop with NYPD who is given only minimal duties because everyone knows he has a problem ( and why then aren't they doing something about it . . . ? ) . He is assigned to escort a prisoner , petty criminal loquacious Eddie Bunker ( Mos Def ) from his cell to the courthouse 16 blocks away where he is to testify against some bad cops . Little does Mosley know it is a setup and very soon it is apparent that the bad cops headed by his old partner Frank ( David Morse ) are out to kill Eddie so that he can't testify against them . Jack and Eddie have a face-off in a bar where Jack has a conscience change and decides to go against his fellow bad cops and get Eddie to the courthouse . It is the getting there , involving hiding , running , commandeering a bus , etc that creates the bulk of the film . But as much as the action portion of the thriller is satisfying , the feature of this film is the extraordinary gradual development of change in the character of Jack and of Eddie as they both , as ' outsiders ' doomed to careers that seem dead ends , interrelate , bond and change . Both Willis and Def give superb performances and the film is well worth watching to just see these fine actors in parts that give them room to demonstrate their considerable skills . Richard Donner paces his film well and there is not a dead moment in the movie . The cinematography by Glen MacPherson and the musical score by Klaus Badelt as well as the fine supporting cast make this a polished work . There is an alternate ending ( originally shot to be the first choice ending ! ) that makes the film take a different slant , but the film as it stands is a fine one . Grady Harp
A Twist on the Theme of a Love Affair	' Trop plein d'amour ' ( L'amour Dangereux ) is a beautifully filmed and very well written ( François Lemaire , Steve Suissa and Samantha Mazeras ) story that finds more information about the early stages of love in the young set than a score of other films . Director Steve Suissa knows exactly how to balance the motivations and the responses of his cast , making a potentially predictable story one that holds our attention - and hearts - from the first frame to the last . Simon ( Nicholas Cazale , a formidable screen presence ) is a lower class laborer , kind , caring , industrious , and ' in love ' with a girl Noemie ( Jennifer Decker ) he has observed since childhood , a girl whose parents are property ( shop ) owners and thus in another class . Always ready to increase his work to make a better salary , Simon accepts a questionable ' job ' for 500 Euros for just 2 hours work . Needless to say the job is a robbery and Simon , in the course of the failed robbery , assaults a policeman who is attacking his friend , wounding the policeman badly . The others in the robbery are caught but Simon escapes . He visits the café where Noemie works , asks her if she has car keys and Noemie not only gives Simon her father's car and keys , but also asks Simon to accompany him on his escape . The remainder of the film is a road trip with Simon ( who is age 18 ) and Noemie ( age 16 ) running from the police . They find joys in nature , live in a small shack on the beach , and fall in love in one of the most sensitively written sequences on film . Simon is hesitant to say he loves Noemie because he feels responsible for her : Noemie begins to feel she must return home but will stay if Simon will only say he loves her . The cops led by the wily inspector Queyrolles ( Bruno Wolkowitch ) close in and Simon is captured and the manner in which the film ends is one that reinforces the importance of truth in life and relationships . What could have been a Hollywoodesque ending complete with suicide leap is instead a tender working through of personal growth . Nicolas Cazale is one of the more sensitive actors in French film today ( ' Three Dancing Slaves ' , multiple TV roles ) and this film should make him a star . The entire cast - including Marc Samuel as Simon's misunderstood father - is splendid . The cinematography is magnificent and the tender musical scoring mixing Schubert , Chopin and modern songs fit the mood perfectly . This is an amazing little film that bravely takes on issues of the Romeo and Juliet manner and remains entirely unique . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Tank Full of Good Feelings	BROOKLYN LOBSTER is a fine little low budget film that boasts a good story ( based on fact ) written and directed By Kevin Jordan , an excellent low key cast , and enough family love to satisfy just about everybody's need for feel good movies . Giorgio's Lobster Farm has been in the Giorgio family for years and has recently come on hard times : the bank defaulted on the note held by the business and the business faces foreclosure - and even worse , it will be auctioned off , removing it permanently from the family . Frank Giorgio ( Danny Aiello ) is trying to keep his business alive , neglecting his wife Maureen ( Jane Curtin ) who is tired of living with the crustaceans , and depending on his daughter Lauren ( Marisa Ryan ) to be his computer , and trying to convince his son Michael ( Daniel Sauli ) to return to New York from his home in Seattle to help run the business . Michael's steady girlfriend Kerry ( Heather Burns ) supports the concept of saving the business but when her family gets involved an incident occurs which damages all concerned . How Frank's close friend Bill Lau ( Henry Yuk ) and wife Jen ( Jo Yang ) step into the failing picture builds to a climax that demonstrates how family , love , extended family , friends , and perseverance can heal just about anything ! The cast is excellent with Danny Aiello , Jane Curtin and Daniel Sauli especially fine . But the overwhelming result of this little film is a restoration of faith in the human spirit - with a lot of help from family and friends . Grady Harp
The Fine Line Between Comedy and Tragedy	At first glance , during the music and opening sequences of THE HUNTING PARTY , it is difficult to ascertain if the film about to be seen is a comedy or a docudrama about a genocidal maniac . Once the repartee of dialog sets in we realize that journalists require a certain mindset and vantage that allows them to cover war and other atrocities and once that tenor is adjusted the film makes solid sense . Based on a true story by Scott Anderson ( a journalist ) THE HUNTING PARTY ( written for the screen by Richard Shepard who also directs ) deals with a top notch journalist Simon ( Richard Gere ) on the skids and his buddy cameraman Duck ( Terrence Howard ) and youngster journalist Benjamin ( Jesse Eisenberg ) who meet up after Simon's self imposed exile to follow a lead to ' interview ' The Fox ( Ljubomir Kerekes ) , the most wanted war criminal from the Bosnia / Croatian war . Their trail follows life-threatening chases and captures and escapes until they expose what the CIA has been doing to prevent - the capture of this heinous maniac . While the atmosphere is rather grim , the production is pitch perfect and the performances by Gere , Howard , and Eisenberg manage to reveal the complexities of the mental states and bizarre outlooks of journalists who elect to be right next to the horrors of war and crime in order to deliver a story . Food for thought here , and a much different approach to the life of correspondents than we've had before . And , it is based on fact ! Grady Harp
A Wee Sparkling Film from Ireland	Some films may be predictable , with minimal storyline and action sequences and still be a hit . THE BOYS AND GIRL FROM COUNTY CLARE hits that description on target . This is an emerald of a jaunty little Irish tale that thoroughly entertains with a fine cast and superb Irish music and leaves the audience wholly satisfied - AND has a fine social comment ! The setting is County Clare where the International Irish Music festival is at hand . For years John-Joe McMahon ( Bernard Hill ) and his little band have won the ceili ( Irish dance music ) band competition . Members of his hometown orchestra include young Anne ( Andrea Corr ) and her unmarried grumpy piano-playing mother Maisie ( Charlotte Bradley ) . Word comes round that John-Joe's long estranged brother Jimmy ( Colm Meaney ) has a band from Liverpool , a band that includes Liverpudlian types including young and handsome flautist Teddy ( Shaun Evans ) and is aimed in the direction of the Festival to compete . In fine Irish tradition the two mutually angry brothers try to sabotage each other's appearance , but alas they both come face to face in the competition . With Jimmy's arrival we discover that Maisie's negative outlook comes from the fact that Jimmy is the one who wantonly got her pregnant and Anne is Jimmy's daughter . Maisie is forced to admit to Anne her betrayal of ancestry news and the mother / daughter relationship is strained to the breaking point . Anne and Teddy ( naturally ) fall for each other and the two of them decide to return to Liverpool after the festival ends with neither's band the winner . This development is threatening to Maisie and she finally confronts Jimmy with her pent up resentment and disappointment . How the young ones cope with their situation and emotions and resolve the problem of distance is the finale of this sweet story and is best left to the viewer to discover . The acting is homogeneously fine with the comedy and drama in fine balance . And oh the music ! Director John Irvin has created a little jewel of a film that warms the proverbial cockles of your heart . Grady Harp
' Disabilities ' and Possibilities	The title and cover of this DVD suggest a film that is more fluff than substance . But don't be fooled by these clues . BLIND DATING is a well-written ( Christopher Theo ) , well-directed ( James Keach - brother of Stacy Keach and husband of Jane Seymour ) story about the coping of the visually impaired , the quirks of Italian and Indian families , brotherhood , and the gamut of finding the right partner in a world of essential blind dating ! One of the reasons the movie works so well is the ability of actor Chris Pine to make us believe he is blind and convey the positive manner in which people with impairments ' view ' those around them . Danny ( Chris Pine ) was born prematurely and as a result is blind , and as he grows toward age 21 he feels he is unattractive to women . His family is warm , loving and Italian and supportive - especially his brother Larry ( Eddie Kaye Thomas ) who runs a Limo service and is constantly trying to find Danny his first physical encounter , be that with hookers , girls from the office or neighborhood , or just referrals - each of whom is a disaster when it comes to dealing with a date who is blind ! Danny discovers an operation that implants a camera-like contraption in his brain that will allow him the possibility to see again , even if the images are simply black and white and indistinct . In the office of ophthalmologist Dr . Perkins ( Stephen Tobolowsky ) is a young girl Leeza ( Anjali Ray ) who is Indian and whose parents have arranged a wedding with a man she does not love . And yes , in time Danny and Leeza are attracted to each other in what appears to be a doomed relationship - for family reasons . Danny has his operation and is able to see some images , but the implant fails and Danny once again is without sight - but far from being without hope , as both his and Leeza's families undergo changes of heart . There is a sense of love that emanates from the screen , due in part to the script , the direction , and to the acting . Chris Pine is exceptionally fine in a challenging role , finding the balance between courage , comedy , and tenderness that make his character believable and lovable , and never once making a move that breaks his image as a sightless person . The entire cast is fine , including a hilarious Jane Seymour as Dr . Evans , Chris ' therapist with a penchant for disrobing in front of her sightless patient ! But the aspect of the film that sets it apart from many is the presentation of everyday type prejudices that can be every bit as hampering as a physical impairments ! This is a warmhearted , very human comedy with many messages . Grady Harp
Afterburn	The title of this film STOP-LOSS may puzzle many . According to Wikipedia , ' Stop-loss , in the United States military , is the involuntary extension of a service member's active duty service under the enlistment contract in order to retain them beyond their initial end of term of service ( ETS ) date . It also applies to the cessation of a permanent change of station ( PCS ) move for a member still in military service ' . According to writer ( with Mark Richard ) / director Kimberly Pierce ( whose previous ' Boy's Don't Cry ' tackled similarly volatile issues ) , the impetus for making this film about the effects of war on veterans returning home was her viewing of videos taken by soldiers while actively engaged in battle in Iraq : this is the first war where the soldiers have actually photographed their own experiences , documenting the realities / horrors of war on the now popular video equipment at their disposal . It is a solid idea for a film , but somehow the idea gets diluted in the script . Texas homeboys who have just returned from the Iraq war are greeted with a parade and medals and empty rhetoric , but find adapting to reentry into their native land is fraught with the deeply embedded mental wounds of their experience : interpersonal relationships fall apart , families face altered personalities in their sons , Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome reigns . Brandon ( Ryan Phillippe ) blames himself for the deaths of his men , Tommy ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) drinks himself toward suicide , Rico ( Victor Rasuk ) attempts to see past his traumatically missing limbs , Isaac ( Rob Brown ) finds his entire world out of focus , and Steve ( Channing Tatum ) sees the military as his only point of reality to a life of success . When Brandon receives his Stop-Loss instead of his discharge papers his world turns upside down and he flounders in his nightmares and his need for escape to Canada or Mexico with his friend Michelle ( Abbie Cornish ) . The horror of events that follow the homecoming of these damaged soldiers culminates in a tragedy that somehow results in the soldiers following the orders of the governmental Stop-Loss orders . And that is the worst tragedy . Though the message is important , the delivery of it gets hazy : the motivations of the characters are too loosely defined to convince us of their terrible plights . But the impact on the public should be a wake-up call on the extended damage of war - any war - on the men and women who experience it first hand and carry the mental scars for life . For that reason , if for no other , this is a film that should be seen . Grady Harp
A Child's Mind : The Door to Understanding	O Ano em Que Meus Pais Saíram de Férias ( THE YEAR MY PARENTS WENT ON VACATION ) is an amazing little film from Brazil written by Adriana Falcão and Claudio Galperin and directed with panache by Cao Hamberger . It tackles many important issues ( political upheaval , religion , ghettos , soccer , aging and more ) while telling a very tender story about a young lad forced into a change of life that builds his character and his appreciation for the global community . It works on every level . The year is 1970 , the place is São Paulo during the World Cup Soccer Games , and we meet the young Mauro ( Michel Joelsas ) as he is swept away from his home by his frantic parents to live in São Paulo with his grandfather : his parents tell him they are going on ' vacation ' while in reality they are escaping the dictatorial ' disappearances ' that challenged the Brazil of the time . The grandfather lives in the Jewish ghetto and Mauro soon discovers that his would be host has just died . He meets the adjoining neighbor , grumpy old Shlomo ( Germano Haiut ) , who begrudgingly takes Mauro in and allows him to pursue his obsession with soccer . The story winds through the disparities of Jewish life and the governmental changes that are disrupting the flow of this important year for Brazil ( there are many film clips of the famous player Pelé which add to the tenor of the story ) , and as Mauro makes friends with a little girl Hanna ( Daniela Piepszyk ) the two children are confronted with the realities of political strife and the glories of Brazil's World Cup . By keeping the narrative ( in Portuguese , Yiddish and German ) to a minimum the beauty of viewing the world and its incongruities through the eyes of children becomes even more touching . This is one of those films that allows us a vantage of longstanding problems and gives us a fresh view - a factor that helps our understanding of traumas of the history and awareness of similar traumas of the present . Hamberger delivers it with tenderness and is greatly assisted by the artistic cinematography of Adriano Goldman and the musical score by Beto Villares . It is a film well worth seeing at least once ! Grady Harp
A Stylish , Visually Stunning , Memorable Film from Latin America	LA MUJER DE MI HERMANO seems to have polarized viewers between those who classify it as a television novela and those who see it as a stylish Latin American drama . Written by Peruvian author Jaime Bayly , adapted by María Eugenia Argomedo , and directed by Peruvian director Ricardo de Montreuil , the cast boasts actors from Peru ( Christian Meier ) , Colombia ( Manolo Cardona ) , Uruguay ( Bárbara Mori ) , Venezuela ( Gaby Espino ) , Chile ( Beto Cuevas ) , and Mexico ( Angélica Aragón , Bruno Bichir ) . It is a fine showcase for some of the fine talent from Latin America that is gaining a strong influence on theatrical films released in the USA . It offers a story embracing many current dilemmas in society ( relationship to church , infidelity , illegitimate pregnancy , homosexuality , childhood sexual abuse ) and blends them into a film acted by a fine cast of beautiful and talented actors and artists behind the camera , and the result is a luminous piece of cinema that deserves a second look . Ignacio ( Meier ) is a handsome , wealthy , emotionally cool man who is married to a sensuous , beautiful , sexually frustrated Zoe ( Mori ) , The couple may appear to have it all - splendid house , wealth , expensive tastes - but they have been unable to have children in their ten year marriage . The disparity between their sexual needs results in Zoe finding solace in the arms of Ignacio's bohemian artist brother Gonzalo and they begin an affair that results in a surprise pregnancy . This crisis unveils the truth about the characters : Gonzalo , still reeling from the childhood sexual abuse by his older brother Ignacio , doesn't want fatherhood and marriage , and in the peak of the tremor the pregnancy creates Gonzalo shares Ignacio's homosexuality with Zoe . How the three confront their needs and fears pulls the story to a close , an ending that addresses fully the characteristic traits that have shaped the lives of the three . In addition to the trio of stars there are excellent cameos by Bruno Bichir as Zoe's gay confidant , Angélica Aragón as the mother of the men whose greatest need is for grandchildren , Gaby Espino as the housekeeper Laura , and Beto Cuevas as the priest who is not only a friend of the family but hears the secrets of each in the confessional . The cinematography is lush and evocative in the competent hands of Andrés Sánchez and the tension of the story is well underscored by the music of Angelo Milli . For this viewer LA MUJER DE MI HERMANO is a classy film that brings attention to the many fine new works coming from Latin American cinema . It is well worth revisiting . Grady Harp
Three Tales in One : Possibilities of Destiny	' Amores Possíveis ' ( POSSIBLE LOVES ) is fine little film from Brazil courtesy of writers Paulo Halm and Maya Werneck Da-Rin and polished young director Sandra Werneck . Filmed in Rio de Janeiro in Portuguese , the story of three possible outcomes of a potential love affair is cleverly conceived and is acted with aplomb by a fine cast of actors , and though billed as a comedy it shines with some dramatic truths that carry it far beyond the usual fluff so often before us in this country . The ' story ' is three stories in one : fifteen years ago Carlos ( the inordinately handsome and talented Murilo Benício ) was to meet a fellow college student Júlia ( beautiful and elegant Carolina Ferraz ) and the film takes that moment and creates three possibilities : 1 ) Carlos married Júlia and had a son with her and in the present has left her for a male lover Pedro ( Emílio de Melo ) , 2 ) Carlos longed for her while being married to a comfortable but not exciting Maria ( Beth Goulart ) and meets Júlia as the film opens , leaving his Maria for his long desired romance with her , and 3 ) Carlos has never married , is a lothario living with his possessive widowed mother ( Irene Ravache ) and encounters the artsy looney Júlia as yet another conquest . How these three possibilities for the true ending of a fifteen year missed cinema appointment reveal the true version is the story of the film . Using the same actors for the various roles and mixing the progress of each story variation can confuse the audience at times , but the actors are so fine in demonstrating the varied aspects of each character transformation that the film becomes a suspenseful puzzle . The endings of each version contain important lessons about love and , well , you just have to watch it to enjoy the details . The film fizzes with sexual excitement on many levels and is completely unafraid to take a realistic look at both straight and gay relationships , showing how similar they actually are . It is not a ' great film ' nor does it purport to be , but is certainly entertains and showcases some superbly talented and beautiful actors from Brazil ! In Portuguese with English subtitles . Recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
A Fish out of Water , Learning to Swim	America BROWN is one of those little Indie films that creeps up on you and despite the technical flaws and obvious low budget milieu makes a solid impact as a bit a Americana worth visiting . America Brown aka Ricky Brown ( Ryan Kwanten ) is a high school senior who happens to be a football star in his tiny West Texas town where Bo ( Leo Burmester ) and Coach ( Frankie Faison ) have pinned there efforts to break into the big time in football if Ricky fulfills his expectations . Ricky lives with his beautician mother ( Karen Black ) whose strident husband is dead and whose oldest son Daniel ( Michael Rapaport ) recently died from a heart attack . Ricky needs to breathe and escapes to Brooklyn where he traces down his personal hero , former football Texas star John Cross ( Hill Harper ) who has become a Catholic priest but has secrets of his own . John takes in Ricky , and Ricky begins to discover the world outside of Texas , loses his virginity to a diner waitress Vera ( Natasha Lyonne ) and befriends Rosie ( Élodie Bouchez ) , whose attachment to John Cross seems to have some undercurrents . Ricky is all innocence and beautiful youth as he walks the streets of New York in his jeans , cowboy clothes and Stetson - reminiscent of Midnight Cowboy . But as his mind is exposed to the world outside Texas and football he comes to grips with a recurring unbearable nightmare : he feels responsible for his brother Daniel's death . Ricky ultimately returns to his hometown , to his loving mother , and to football , faces his demons , and learns the meaning of becoming a man . Young Australian actor Ryan Kwanten , complete with authentic Texan twang , creates a character impossible not to love . His mixture of optimism , naiveté , and inner torture is a fine portrayal of a gifted sportsman challenging what his world expects of him . The remainder of the cast is likewise very fine . London born , Canadian writer / director Paul Black gifts us with his first feature film here and he seems to have all of the makings of a truly fine artist . Watch for his future work ! Recommended . Grady Harp
A Gothic Romance Tale	Patrick McGrath's novel ' Asylum ' was more a poetic elegy about thwarted love and lust than the screenplay by Patrick Marber ( ' Closer ' ) addresses . The improbability of the story , when McGrath's poetic prose is extracted , surfaces and the nuances of a dark love story are lessened . Despite this the film is a worthy , strange story with a fine cast lending lustre to it . The time is the 1950s , and the place is a mental institution in the outskirts of London where Max Raphael ( Hugh Bonneville ) brings his wife Stella ( Natasha Richardson ) and young son Charlie ( Gus Lewis ) to begin his tenure as a psychologist . The asylum is dark , dank , and foreboding , a place where the wives of the doctors are expected to behave and be bored at silly conclaves and teas , all lead by the director Jack ( Joss Ackland ) and his stuffy wife Bridie ( Wanda Ventham ) . The sinister Dr . Peter Cleave ( Ian McKellen ) observes the new couple with suspicion , as they are his ' competition ' in the ascendancy of director . Peter is coldly genial and concerns himself only with his ' pet patient ' Edgar ( Marton Csokas ) , a handsome but dark sculptor who is institutionalized for brutally murdering and dismembering his wife and for whom Peter appears to have a sexual attraction . In no time Stella is bored , not even able to assist her maid Mrs . Rose ( Sara Thurston ) in household chores . Stella sees Edgar and an attraction is mutually palpable , and soon enough they begin acting out their frustrated prolonged lust in the greenhouse Edgar is renovating . Peter and the other staff expect the affair , but when circumstances surface Max's ready embarrassment at his wife's behavior explodes . Edgar escapes the asylum to live with his old friend Nick ( Sean Harris ) and before long Stella discovers his whereabouts in London and begins assignations there under the guise of shopping trips . Ultimately she responds to Edgar's demands to leave her family and live with him , all the while watching Edgar plunge into the same mental state that preceded the murder of his wife . Peter relentlessly seeks out the couple , finds them and returns Stella to her husband who has been fired from his job because of her dalliances . They move to North Wales to a meager life , Edgar follows , and before long the couple reunites with disastrous results . Stella's mind is broken and she tacitly sits and watches her son drown , and as a result she is returned to the asylum as a patient . The ending is bleak and somewhat unexpected and ties the story of love abnormally focused to a circular closure . Filmed in atmospheric dark tones by cinematographer Giles Nuttgens the story's mood remains grim . The cast is excellent with most of the honors going to Ian McKellen in one of his usual highly nuanced performances . Natasha Richardson is believable as the tortured Stella and Hugh Bonneville is aptly cold and distant . Marton Csokas finds the dark interior of Edgar and is understandably the source of attraction for both Stella and Peter . The director David Mackenzie ( ' Young Adam ' ) needed to pay more attention to the editing , a problem that makes this tale of downfall choppy and disjointed . Otherwise ' Asylum ' is a suspenseful , tragic story of the asylums people create for themselves . But oh , for the poetry of Patrick McGrath . . . Recommended . Grady Harp
Edgy , Daring , and Visually Exciting Crime Drama	Tony Scott has a lock and load style of directing , a manner of making a film like a fast ride in the editing room where you must depend on rapid sequence fragments to keep the whole story together , an artsy and at times a bit over the top pretentious visual language that , depending on the story , can work very well in enhancing the effect of the film experience . DOMINO is a very daring and exciting version of Domino Harvey's life as a wealthy daughter of movie star Laurence Harvey , a successful model , but a disillusioned soul who chucks it all and turns her life around and becomes a bounty hunter . The story is based on fact ( the real Domino Harvey had a hand in the film before her death just before the film was released ) and that makes it even more suspenseful . Domino is played by Keira Knightly who more than demonstrates that she is an actress to watch . Her involvement with fellow bounty hunters Ed Moseby ( Mickey Rourke ) and Choco ( Edgar Ramirez ) along with characters enacted by Delroy Lindo , Mo'Nique , Riz Abbasi , Dabney Coleman , Brian Austin Green , and Lucy Liu to name only a few members of this talented cast is on the center of the target . There is much violence , some very amusing sequences , and lots of pyrotechnical and other action gimmicks that add to the film's flavor . But the overall success of this ' biopic ' is due to Tony Scott's signature vision of visual storytelling . It just works - but you have to surrender to the style that is evident from the opening shots in order to enjoy and appreciate this wild ride . The DVD has a lot of information about the real Domino Harvey with conversations while the crew discuss the characters and the actors portraying them in the film . Worth a careful look . Grady Harp , March 06
Revisiting the Stalinist Era and its Impact	ARCHANGEL ( the name of a northern Russian town that hides secrets the story discloses ) is a film that is not without flaws both in script and in production , but it is a movie of intrigue that makes for a good night's adventure of escape . . . and political philosophizing . Dr . Fluke Kelso ( Daniel Craig ) is an American professor of history visiting Moscow to speak out against the persistent ( though small ) consistency who revere the dead Stalin and long for the Communist days of yore . He is immediately under suspicion , meets and old man Old Papu ( Valery Chernyak ) who tells Kelso he has information that will change his attitude . And the intrigue begins . Old Papu is the last of the old group of bodyguards of Stalin and was present at Stalin's death , witnessing the transfer of some important information to Beria ( Yervant Arzumanyan ) that was to be hidden forever . The Moscow police begin to trail Kelso , kill Old Papu , Kelso discovers Old Papu has a daughter Zinaida ( Yekaterina Rednikova ) who despite studying for law is making her living as a high-class hooker , and in time Kelso engages Zinaida on a chase to find the hidden documents her father has sequestered . Along the line the obligatory television press correspondent , American O'Brian ( Gabriel Macht ) fast talks his way into participating in the chase and the strange group of men adamant to find the lost documents - a group led by Mamantov ( Lev Prygunov ) - attack and pursue the triad all the way to Archangel where the truths about Stalin's last days are made known : in flashbacks we see that Stalin ( Avtandil Makharadze ) had a lover Anna ( Anna Gerasimova ) who was impregnated by the dying Stalin and gave birth to a son Josef ( Konstantin Lavroneko ) who is just waiting for the right time to make Stalinist Communism rise again . How all this intrigue resolves is the fairly impressive ending to the story . This may sound like a flimsy thread for a story but here it works , primarily due to the conviction of Daniel Craig as Kelso , Gabriel Macht as O'Brian and a cast of Russian actors who are very fine . There is a problem : no subtitles are give , except in Spanish , and though the majority of the dialogue is in English ( the Russian dialogue is translated ) the Russian accents are so thick that the actors ' English can barely be understood . The cinematography captures Latvia and Russia effectively and the musical score by Robert Lane is additive . Not a great movie but a tight and entertaining one and one with enough recounting pf the history of Stalinist USSR to make us remember important facts ! Grady Harp
Despite the Horrifying Material , the Film is Well Made	ALPHA DOG is a tough movie to watch and to review . The story , in part because it is true , is repugnant , and the slice of life in 1999 in the San Gabriel Valley , California is disturbing to the point of nausea . But this heinous kidnap / murder of a 15-year-old kid by his peers is captured in an intense manner by writer / director Nick Cassavetes in the way he has cast , directed , and propelled this story of the infamous Jesse James Hollywood to the screen . It is tough to watch but it needed to be put in front of us to make us examine current parenting / adolescent dysfunction and the possible results . The story is so well known that summarizing it is most likely unnecessary . Cassavetes uses the superimposed documentary technique to validate the times and the characters involved in this crime ridden case . The true problem begins with severely dysfunctional parenting and extends into the drug and alcohol abusing , moneyed by crime , irreverent amoral teenagers driven by greed and lack of self discipline that results in the wasted death of a kid who happened to be the brother of one of the troubled , drug addled teenies : a 15-year-old was kidnapped and murdered for a bad drug debt of $1200 . ! The cast is strong and includes Emil Hirsch as Johnny ( the Alpha Dog ) , Justin Timberlake , Shawn Hatosy , Fernando Vargas , and Vincent Kartheiser as Johnny's ' gang ' ; Ben Foster as the addicted debtor whose brother Anton Yelchin is killed ; and Bruce Willis , Sharon Stone , David Thornton , and Harry Dean Stanton as some of the severely dysfunctional parents . They make a fine ensemble cast , especially the despicable characters they are asked to portray . The language is wholly gutter oriented and becomes tiresome - just like listening to it on our streets . Cassavetes ends his film with a survey of the consequences faced by each of the characters and that helps bring closure to an otherwise difficult bit of history to swallow . If only there were some hopeful solutions for changing this type of behavior given , but then that might have blunted in impact of the film . Grady Harp
Music and the Harmony of the Universe : A Film for Dreamers	AUGUST RUSH will not go down in history as a profound film : many will even go so far as to dismiss it as kitsch , maudlin , and a simpleton take off on ' Oliver Twist ' , and other pejoratives . For this viewer the little film is tender and frequently requires suspension of belief , but in the end the idea of the story does indeed bring a tear to the eye . Based on a story by Paul Castro and Nick Castle and transformed for the screen by Castle and James V . Hart , the premise is that of a fairytale , but an unusual fairytale built around the impact of music . On one magic night in New York City classical cellist Lyla Novacek ( Keri Russell ) and popular Irish guitarist / singer Louis Connelly ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) meet on a rooftop , languishing in their own disappointments with life and finding solace in each other's arms , and that night Lyla becomes pregnant , never to see Louis again , and struggling to keep her baby despite her father's demands to abort . Lyla delivers her baby boy , but the child is immediately taken away ( Lyla is told the child was stillborn ) . ' Evan Taylor ' AKA August Rush ( Freddie Highmore ) is placed in an orphanage , longing for parents he believes he can ' hear ' in the music of the spheres . Compelled to find his parents he escapes the orphanage after eleven years and is taken in by Faginesque Maxwell ' Wizard ' Wallace ( Robin Williams ) who teaches his street urchins the fine art of pick pocketing and playing music on the streets as buskers . Renamed August Rush , Evan has uncommon musical talents and rapidly becomes a big money maker for Wizard while at the same time being discovered as a potential pupil for Juilliard by Reverend James ( Mykelti Williamson ) and his girl singer Hope ( Jamia Simone Nash ) with assistance from kindly social worker Richard Jefferies ( Terrence Howard ) . August Rush composes a rhapsody that is to be played in Central Park , a chance to place his music before the world and attract his parents , both of whom have returned to music careers after eleven years absence and learn of the existence of August Rush , their ' unknown son ' . And yes , the ending is a happily ever after one . . . Kirsten Sheridan directs with a sure hand and a keen eye toward make believe . The cast is strong , especially Jonathan Rhys Meyers , and the musical score , a very mixed bag , provides a suitable background for the story . This is one of those movies that asks us to go along with a lot of improbable events , but the pleasure of the experience is worth the journey . Grady Harp
A Stylish , Engrossing Tale form the European Front Before 911	Quelques jours en septembre ( A Few Days in September ) is an intelligent , classy little film that boasts not only a unique story as written and directed by Argentinean Santiago Amigorena , but a fine cast of both seasoned and fresh young actors who capture our attention and hearts as they progress through Europe on a mission that has a lot to do ( in 2001 ) with September's indelible imprint on the world . It is a film that contains biting humor , black humor , love interests , and bizarre sidebars that make the final moments of the movie all the more troubling . Irène Montano ( Juliette Binoche ) is an agent in Paris who is somehow connected to secret intelligence in making a meeting with one CIA agent Elliott ( Nick Nolte ) who holds top-secret information that could change the world . . . Irène is instructed by cellphone to look after Elliott's estranged French daughter Orlando ( Sara Forestier ) , who loathes the father that deserted her when her mother died , and Elliot's young son David ( Tom Riley ) from the US who adores his father and has come to Paris to see him . Various meeting places between Irène ( accompanied by Orlando and David ) and Elliot are aborted until finally the three are told to travel to Venice for a definite meeting . This all takes place between September 5th and September 10th and it is soon suggested that the elusive Intelligence Service Elliott hold information that will impact the world . As the three characters progress through the streets and cafés of Paris and of Venice they are stalked by a very odd assassin William Pound ( John Turturro ) who divides his time among reciting poetry , in cellphone consultations with his psychiatrist , killing people and planning the assassination of Elliott . While Orlando and David are at first at odds , separated by language and by disparate feelings about their shared father , the presence of Irène joins the two in friendship and more while acting as a guide and escort through the dangers that lie constantly before them . It is not until the last few minutes of the film that we actually meet Elliott ( Nolte ) and in these few minutes not only are there changes that occur in the estranged relationship between Orlando and Elliot , but also rapid fire events that breathlessly lead to the moments before the shattering events of 911 in America . Cinematographer Christophe Beaucarne captures all of the allure of Paris and Venice while keeping the focus of the film intense with well-lighted spaces and camera angles . Laurent Martin has found the right mixture of music types to fit the various moods of the film - from amorous to innocent to terror . The film is in both English and French ( subtitled in English ) and it is refreshing for a groups of actors to move so graciously between the languages . Binoche is in peak form , creating a fascinating woman whose role is so very pivotal to the entire story . John Turturro adds another character role to his repertoire and provides most of the dark humor that peppers the film . Nolte is strong in his small role , but it is the pleasure of watching newcomers Tom Riley and Sara Forestier , so adroit at being natural , that adds to the success of the movie . While the topic of the film ( 911 ) is still difficult to assimilate , this version of how Europe was responding and the suggestion of how our own CIA had prior information make for a seamlessly exciting way of filling in some of the holes that remain to be examined . Strongly recommended on all levels . Grady Harp
Tightly Directed Action Thriller	Edward Zwick delivers the goods with BLOOD DIAMOND , a tense and very compelling film about the greed and bloodshed that surround the diamond industry of Sierra Leone . Though a bit too long at two and a half hours the story is not only a dramatically viable one for a film , but it also has much to say about human interaction and the sanctity of friendship . Solomon Bo ( Djimon Hounsou ) is a fisherman who becomes indentured to the evil men who search for diamonds after being separated form his family and in the course of working for the vile men who are in the illegal diamond industry he discovers a huge pink diamond and hides it form the overseers . He is caught , jailed , and while imprisoned he is observed by a Rhodesian white man Danny Archer ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) who discovers Solomon's secret and arranges for him to be released from prison with money to salvage his life . However , we discover that Danny is in the black market end of the diamond trade and Danny promises Solomon he will get his family back for him if Solomon shares the hidden pink diamond . A journalist Maddy ( Jennifer Connelly ) finds Danny and recognizes a good resource for a revealing article about the diamond trade . Danny and Maddy form an alliance : the rest of the film consists of the chases to recover the diamond with Danny and Solomon bonding and attempting to avoid every manner of interloper . The performances by DiCaprio , Hounsou , and Connelly are superb but there are also fine performances in the smaller roles filled with such actors as Michael Sheen , Kagiso Kuypers , Benu Mabhena , Jimi Mistry , and Stephen Collins . The cinematography by Eduardo Serra manages to capture the beauty of the country as well as the horror of the battles . But in the end it is Zwick ( The Last Samurai , Courage Under Fire , Legends of the Fall , Leaving Normal , Glory , etc ) who transforms the screenplay by Charles Leavitt and C . Gaby Mitchell into an intelligent and engrossing film . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Different Kind of Love Story : Balance in Life	GRIFFIN & PHOENIX is a quiet little made for television film that touches the vulnerable heart . Originally written in 1976 as a television film by John Hill , this thirty-years-later version holds up well , and the fact that audiences will still opt for sensitive stories that treat difficult topics in a mature manner , adding warmly humorous touches to a potentially maudlin idea , speaks well for our continuing tastes . From the opening frames of the film we learn that Griffin ( Dermot Mulroney ) has inoperable cancer : his frank and compassionate physician ( Lois Smith ) aligns him with reality . Griffin is a divorced father of two boys and his first attempt to find meaning in his limited time is to spend time with them , an attempt partially thwarted by his ex-wife . Once a workaholic , Griffin attends a class on death and dying at the university and there he meets the rather strange and isolated Phoenix ( Amanda Peet ) . Griffin's new take on life encourages him to go after the seemingly impenetrable Phoenix and through a series of wildly frivolous escapades he courts her and they gradually fall in love - something neither felt they could do . They cope with issues of intimacy and finally Phoenix shares her secret with Griffin , a secret that plunges them headlong into a fully blossomed romance . How the two cope with the inevitable is well handled , rarely bordering on sappy , and always holding our compassion . Director Ed Stone paces the film well , inserting moments of extended silence to match the emotional atmosphere , allowing breathing space . Both Peet and Mulroney create believable three-dimensional characters and are well supported by such solid actors as Lois Smith , Sarah Paulson , and Novella Nelson . The story may have sad aspects , but the cast always allows the humor inherent in any life event to come through . And that is one of the several reasons the film works well . Grady Harp
The Safety and Threat and Challenge of Memory Loss	Director Simon Brand and writer Matthew Waynee are relative newcomers to the art of film-making and if UNKNOWN is a fair example of their capabilities , they should have promising futures . The script is clever , just obtuse enough to engage thinking on the part of the viewer , and the story is told in a manner that enhances the tension and the credibility . After compatibly bleak credits the story opens in a cement room / rooms where the bodies of five men are strewn about , each either unconscious or possibly dead . The first to rise is Jim Caviezel , battered and without memory of his identity or the situation in which he finds himself . He sees the bodies of four other men and each ' wakes up ' gradually - Greg Kinnear , Joe Pantoliano , Barry Pepper , and Jeremy Sisto . Aside form the fact that everyone has lost his memory there is the fact that they are all hurt and trapped inside the room . The isolation and claustrophobia takes its toll and the men each wonder who is a good guy and who is a bad guy as each tries to recall how they arrived in this terrifying situation . Interplaying with the distraught minds of the five prisoners are moments when the film throws us outside the room into the world of either criminals or detectives and a mysterious woman who is handling a bag of money . Some words about a methamphetamine lab are uttered , some telephone calls are made to the single line inside ' the room ' , and the identities of each of the characters takes shape as each of the imprisoned men gains bits of memory . The five trapped men form a strange bond , ready for the return of whoever it is that placed them there , and it is only after the confrontation of the captors with the captives occurs that all of the pieces of the bizarre story are sorted out . The viewer then needs to do some mental backing up to completely understand the story . The cast is very strong - not only the five solid actors within the room , but also those ' outside ' , including Bridget Moynahan , Peter Stormare , Chris Mulkey , Clayne Crawford , Kevin Chapman , Mark Boone , Wilmer Calderon , and David Selby . But it is the choices made by director Simon Brand that make the story unique ( given it has the flavor of ' Memento ' , Camus ' ' No Exit ' , ' Reservoir Dogs ' , ' The Usual Suspects ' and others ) . This a fine examination of human behavior when the aspect of loss of memory impacts how ' strangers ' interact to survive . Grady Harp
The Microcosm of the Beauty Salon	SUKKAR BANAT ( CARAMEL ) marks a fine directorial debut for the stunningly beautiful Lebanese actress Nadine Labaki . Though films about the private lives of a circle of women who gather in a mutual watering hole to gossip , share joys and pains of love affairs , as well as being the important support group they all need are plentiful ( think STEEL MAGNOLIAS ) , few come as close to the intimacy shared by this talented cast whose disparate problems keep the film flying . The screenplay by Rodney El Haddad and Jihad Hojeily is greatly enhanced by the cinematography by Yves Sehnaoui with the atmospheric musical score by Khaled Mouzannar , but it is the impeccable cast that completes this tender , humorous , and gently sentimental little tale . The film shows us a Lebanon we rarely see . The setting is a Beirut beauty salon La Belle owned by Layale ( Nadine Labaki ) whose frequent absences from her place of business are due to trysts with a married man , trysts often delayed by a police officer , the handsome and infatuated Youssef ( Adel Karram ) . Working in the shop is Rima ( Johanna Moukarzel ) whose same sex infatuation with a beautiful patron is subtly explored , and regulars in the salon include an aging wannabe actress Jamale ( Gisèle Aouad ) , a non virgin bride to be Nisrine ( Yasmine Elmasri ) and an older seamstress Rose ( Sihame Haddad ) who has elected to relinquish her hopes for love with a willing and potential elderly man Charles ( Dimitri Staneofski ) in favor of continuing to care for her humorously senile mother Lili ( Aziza Semaan ) . How these unforgettable characters interact , displacing each other's anxieties by caring friendship freely shared , offers each of these fine actresses many moments of glory in addition to creating a fine ensemble effect as sensitively directed by Nadine Labaki . This little film ( in Arabic and French with subtitles ) is a complete pleasure and will likely draw attention to future films from Lebanon . Grady Harp
One Man's Castle is Another Man's Prison : COLDITZ and Human Behavior	Colditz is a castle near Leipzig where during WW II the Nazis held Allied troops who were particularly at risk as escape artists . Many of the men had escaped POW camps prior to their incarceration in the huge castle , and the man in charge of the prison warns every new inmate that the castle is impenetrable : there is no possibility of escaping and those who attempt will be killed . The film begins in London 1939 as men are preparing to leave for the front . Among them is a slightly naive but warmly human lad , Jack Rose ( Tom Hardy ) who has fallen in love with Lizzie ( Sophia Myles ) , in a sweet , innocent union that represents the concept of ' the love we leave behind ' . Jack leaves for duty with fellow soldiers Nicholas McGrade ( Damian Lewis ) and Tom Willis ( Lawrence Fox ) and soon they are captured by the Nazis and placed in a POW camp . Of course , being cunning lads , they soon escape only to be captured again and sent to the ominous Colditz - all except Nick . There they bond with men from home such as artist Sawyer ( Guy Henry ) and from other countries including France and Canada - among them Rhett Barker ( Jason Priestly ) who is a manipulator able to buy goods from Nazi guards including drugs to which he is addicted . Nick is sent back to London where he meets Lizzie to tell her of Jack's safety . In time the two feel an attraction that proves to have fatal consequences because of Nick's obsession to have Lizzie to himself . Meanwhile the men in Colditz attempt multiple escapes only to be caught each time and put into solitary confinement . The drive to escape is aided by all of the inmates and yet their efforts are thwarted by colleagues turned informers for their own selfish needs . Artist Sawyer does escape and is assigned in London with the Intelligence outfit with Nick : he learns that supposedly Jack has been reported as killed in action ( a letter forged by Nick to gain access to Lizzie's emotions ) and the remainder of the story concerns the end of the war , the release of the prisoners from Colditz , and the fatal schism between the returning Jack and his rival Nick over the love of Lizzie . Director Stuart Orme manages to keep the pace of this over three hour long film , allowing the viewer to meet and understand and care about a very large cast of characters ( writers Richard Cottan and Peter Morgan have created deft personalities ) . Filmed in London and the Czech Republic the atmosphere is correctly captured and the large cast of characters includes many very fine cameos . If there is a single message to summarize a complex story , it is the old adage ' brothers in arms , rivals in love ' . This made for television miniseries is well acted and is another opportunity to see the background stories of World War II . Recommended viewing . Grady Harp
The Janus Effect : The Polar Effects of Comedy and Tragedy	Woody Allen's finest film that dealt with the potency of interpersonal relationships in a purely serious mode was the magnificent ' Interiors ' , a film that remains one of the most visually beautiful and hauntingly touching films of the past . In MELINDA & MELINDA he seems to be looking at his life in films from a high vantage that has revealed to him just how closely related comedy and tragedy are , how the lives we live and the stories we tell depend a great deal on personal perception drawing on our individual past experiences that bring us to the unique human we each become . This seems to be the point of the bifurcated stories presented here by a fine cast in a very successful format . The opening , intervening , and closing scenes in a café where four people debate over drinks the differences between comedy and tragedy ( two are writers specializing in one of the two forms of drama ) set a marvelous ' Greek chorus ' effect for the film . The same story , essentially , is adapted by each of the two writers who share how they see the development of the accidental entry of a strange woman into the lives of two different couples / environments . And it is this parallel of thought lines that propels this film . There are some constants : the strange woman Melinda ( brilliant Australian actress Rhada Mitchell ) plays both forms of the character , the basic incidents of marital dysfunction , extramarital affairs , racially mixed couples , the ' woman on the edge ' persona that pervades all of Allen's films , etc are the ideas that , while core , alter in each tale . The two stories are closely interwoven so that acute attention from audience concentration is demanded . Rhada Mitchell gives a bravura performance as the two Melindas , and she is surrounded by some very fine actors as the various couples and lovers : Chloë Sevigny , Jonny Lee Miller , Brooke Smith , Amanda Peet , Chiwetel Ejiofor , Daniel Sunjata , among others . There are fans out there of Will Ferrell who probably would include his performance , but for this reviewer he is an awkward actor who vacillates between his own persona and that of Woody Allen here . Allen's script and direction are uniquely Woody Allen and in this film that combo succeeds . There are some holes in the script and some dallying on certain moments that grow tiresome , but the ideas are smart and the concept rings true . Recommended . Grady Harp
Static in Ordinary Lives	Capturing a bit of Americana , a parcel of life foreign in nature to our own , has offered the opportunity to appreciate the diversity of living and of people in this country populated by ordinary yet extraordinary beings . Films that have focused on little family ventures ( ' Mystic Pizza'-type films ) make us examine our own niche and grow to love variations on a single theme . DIGGERS , as written by Ken Marino ( who also stars ) , is just such a story , a window on the life of clam diggers in the shores off Long Island . Yet as directed by Katherine Dieckmann and acted by a particularly fine cast , DIGGERS addresses the changes that occur in each of us as we progress from teenagers to adults - and all the potentially crippling and thrilling factors that can and do arise . Four friends who dig for clams as their families have done for generations interact on levels of levity and anger , support and misunderstanding , and woven through the background of these four men's lives are the women ( and children ) who influence them . The apparently disparate men include wannabe photographer Hunt ( Paul Rudd ) , procreator Lozo ( Ken Marino ) , druggie philosopher Cons ( Josh Hamilton ) , and womanizer Jack ( Ron Eldard ) . Their lives intersect on many levels : the women in their lives - Hunt's needy divorced sister Gina ( Maura Tierney ) who after their father's death falls for Jack , Hunt's ' summer girlfriend ' Zoey ( Lauren Ambrose ) , and Lozo's constantly pregnant wife Julie ( Sarah Paulson ) - and the changes in the entire business of clamming rights as big business steps into the water . How these characters cope with the static that jars their day-to-day existence may seem small in importance to an outsider , but by the end of the film , we ' the outsiders ' have grown to know and appreciate and love this little band of fellow beings . The cast displays excellent ensemble acting and while the film has its rough edges , so does the little corner of the world described . It is a quiet little film , all the more beautiful for being so unpretentious . Grady Harp
Gradually Becoming a Cult Movie	GOODBYE LOVER slipped by a lot of viewers when it was released in 1998 and it is only now while on DVD that the quality of this little tongue-in-cheek film noir is gaining steady popularity . And that is basically due to a superb cast of fine actors who obviously are enjoying every minute of the project . Sandra ( Patricia Arquette ) is a girl of somewhat lethal ambition , married to Jake ( Dermot Mulroney ) but having an affair with Jake's brother Ben ( Don Johnson ) who is also having an affair with his secretary Peggy ( Mary-Louise Parker ) . The action quickens when the dark murder-for-insurance angle appears , but this also opens the door for the entrance of detective Pompano ( Ellen DeGeneres ) and her oingo-boingo partner Rollins ( Ray McKinnon ) who set about solving the tangled mysteries . The results create a very funny , dark humored movie that sparkles in the hands of all of the actors , especially with DeGeneres and Arquette . A great movie ? No , but one that is a lot of fun as directed with an astute grasp of the medium by Roland Joffé
' Prison desensitizes you . '	Writer / Director Ric Roman Waugh may not have a large number of completed films under his stuntman belt , but if FELON is any indication of the quality of work we can expect from him , it seems he has a solid future . There are many films about prison life and prison breaks that keep coming down the pike , but few of them have the quality of being character studies of how prison affects the minds and lives of both those incarcerated and those on the outside who must deal with the realities both concurrent and future of living in the shadow of ultimate effects of prison experiences . FELON is a strong character-based prison drama . Wade Porter ( Stephen Dorff ) is a young man on the rise : he is planning to marry the mother Laura ( Marisol Nichols ) of his child Michael ( Vincent Miller ) , his small business is finally becoming successful , and his family life is happy . One evening Wade's and Laura's sleep is interrupted by an intruder who steals Wade's wallet , then runs out of the house with Wade chasing him with a baseball bat . One hit with the bat the robber is dead . The police arrive and because of the logistics of the timing of the blow to the robber , Wade is arrested for murder . Unsuccessful attempts to explain the situation eventually lead to Wade's being sentenced to prison and he is sent to a prison run by a sadistic Lt . Jackson ( Harold Perrineau ) with demons of his own . A famous prisoner John Smith ( Val Kilmer ) is transferred to the prison and becomes cellmates with Wade . The racial violence between prisoners creates rules and gangs and Wade is caught up in the violence that occurs in the daily ' hour in the yard ' experiences , until John shares his knowledge of prison logistics and advises Wade in how to avoid critical issues . The prisoners are not only violent among themselves , but they are also the pawns of the brutally evil Lt . Jackson and his crew who appear to delight in the traumas the prisoners create . It is obvious that the good guy / bad guy line is blurred and in order to survive Wade follows John's wise council to an ending that eventually results in some correction of the evils of the prison situation . Survival is the key in the cases of many of the characters , including some of the ' good guards ' ( Nate Parker , Greg Serano ) , the steadfast Laura , her mother ( a small but well defined role for Annie Archer ) , and for former guard Gordon ( Sam Shepard ) a friend of John Smith . Dorff and Kilmer provide very strong characterizations as does Perrineau , but without the fairly large cast of ' fellow prisoners ' who set the scenes , their overall performances would be less impressive . It is here that Ric Roman Waugh demonstrates his talent for handling the mixture of physical brutality with the fragility of each individual's mind that makes the film work . It is a tough film to watch but it is solid craftsmanship . Grady Harp
Artist and Model	Pedro Usabiaga is a well-established Basque photographer whose chief concerns are figurative photography and whose passion in photographing the Spanish male . In this hour long conversation with the artist we are given entry into that process of selecting models ( none of the models he uses for this book to be titled ' Private Diary ' are professional , but instead are randomly chosen as Usabiaga observes athletes in action ) and then allowed to follow Usabiaga and his crew as they photograph these men in natural settings and natural light . The models are splendidly handsome young Spaniards - surfers , horsemen , swimmers , beach kite fliers , woodchoppers , rope climbers , runners - whose collective body fat is probably close to 0 % ! These are not body builders but instead are perfectly sculpted male forms who are open to the photographer's ideas and willing to go places professional models might question . There is nothing at all traditionally erotic about these pictures we watch developing : there is no complete nudity , the focus of the camera is on the muscles at work and the faces of these inordinately handsome young men . The result is a casual conversational approach to the art of photographing the figure and the results are very fine indeed . Usabiaga narrates in voice-over and his words are quite poetic . Coupled with a background of Bach , Beethoven , and some contemporary composers the overall effect is artistic and therefore sensual in the finest sense of the term . Yes , there is bountiful eye candy here , but there is also a richly detailed account of the relationship between artist and model offered in a finely tuned manner . And Spain never looked so beautiful ! Grady Harp
Looking for the Happiest Day of Your Life	FORGIVE AND FORGET was originally written by Mark Burt and directed by Aisling Walsh as a TV movie aimed at a straight audience in the UK . That fact is important to remember as it makes this excellent film more credible to the audience that is finding it negative . The world at large remains homophobic as is evident not only in the US with all the measures before the voting public about gay rights , but also with the unrelenting gay bashing around the world in virtually every country . FORGIVE AND FORGET attempts to defuse some of that irrational behavior , yet sadly it only succeeds on some levels : some are still either incredulous that this story could happen and end the way it does while others quietly nod in recognition of a an atmosphere that remains essentially unchanged with the apparent passage of time's enlightenment . Working class plasterer David ( Steve John Shepherd ) and perennial student Theo ( John Simm ) have been best friends ( mates ) for fourteen years , David the larger of the two being Theo's protector and defender . They are devoted to each other in the best sense of the word . Theo begins seeing artist Hannah ( Laura Fraser ) who is still recovering from a broken relationship with an unfaithful guy . As the couple's relationship intensifies , David sees his mate moving away from him emotionally , a fact that is made more difficult due to the fact that David is a closeted gay man , still living with his virulently homophobic parents , and in truth is deeply in love with Theo . Theo tries to bring David into his new life with Hannah , but David resists , begins having meaningless sexual encounters in Soho , and gradually finds ways to weaken Theo and Hannah's new relationship by playing on Hannah's insecurities . David's attempts at finding time together with Theo result in weakening Hannah's trust and she leaves Theo . As the truths of David's desperate attempts to retain Theo to himself become apparent , Theo questions David's motives . David , unable to talk with anyone , opts for going on a popular UK confessional TV show ( ' Forgive and Forget ' ) where he admits he is gay and declares his love for Theo , a public announcement that results not only in David's being disowned by his parents but also in being beaten bloody by Theo , a sad dénouement stopped only by Hannah's intrusion during the beating . The only positive aspect of David's public confessional is that at last he is free of the lie he has been living , and though he has seemingly lost everything , he at last has some peace of mind - a tragically confessed happiest day of his life . The cast is homogenously excellent , but the quality of acting by the exceedingly handsome and charismatic Steve John Shepherd and by John Simm and Laura Fraser is exceptional . Whether the audience is deeply disturbed by this film or closely aligns with its message , the film as an artwork cannot be faulted . It is a brave little movie that dares to hold a mirror up to the audience , hopefully enlightening at least a few as to the perpetuated homophobia that maligns the lives of many citizens . Recommended viewing . Grady Harp
A Director's Cut Reformation of Alexander	Few films have garnered the criticism as the theatrical release of the much maligned Alexander and that fact always stirs the curiosity cauldron - in this case , so much so that Oliver Stone decided to re-edit and re-compose the original version into this Director's Cut DVD . Now the film can be viewed in the relatively inexpensive milieu of the home and perhaps more folks will give another ( or , as in my case , a first ) look at what the grumbling is all about . Alexander is a big film about a big person who did big things . How a story so altered by time , history , myth , and folklore could be translated to the screen strains the imagination - but not Oliver Stone's - a man who loves big events and big issues . And I think he succeeds in drawing us into the atmosphere of the ' civilized world ' of Alexander's time . Ptolemy ( Anthony Hopkins ) relates the history of a man who wished to tie the known world together into one empire and would have us believe that dream was altruistic as well as destined . Through a series of flash forwards and flashbacks the birth to death of Alexander is pieced together : each time a great moment or crisis occurs in Alexander's life , the story backtracks to explain the etiological influences of that particular step in Alexander's march around the globe . The settings of Alexander's youth in Macedonia are breathtakingly beautiful in the cave painting details of the various gods and heroes and heroines that so deeply influenced the life of Alexander - Medea , Oedipus , Herakles , Zeus , etc . If the entire film had been able to maintain this mystic quality of ambiance , this would have been a powerful work . But once the scenes begin to disperse to Persia , India , Greece , etc the film becomes Hollywoodized and hearkens back to the Cecil B . DeMille view of ancient history , garnished with expensive sets and costumes and endless dancing maidens and overwrought battle sequences . Where this film ( at least this version ) is best is when it approaches the passion of Alexander for Hephaistion . Few writers or film makers have dared to enter the arena of homosexual love of heroes of history and this is where Stone takes the chance - and then unfortunately heavily edits the romance from this ' director's cut ' . A missed opportunity to examine an important aspect of neglected history is sad . As for the cast , Colin Farrell does his best with the script he has in making us believe in Alexander , and he is able to connect the chemistry with Jared Leto's Hephaistion well . Angelina Jolie is aptly smarmy as the snake-loving Olympias , Val Kilmer's Philip , grotesquely hidden behind scars of makeup , is suitably evil , but given the tritely written roles of Aristotle ( Christopher Plummer ) and Roxane ( Rosario Dawson ) the rest of the cast is forgettable . But now that the film is available in two forms for less money than a pair of theater tickets perhaps more people will watch , plug in to Oliver Stone's concept , and the air will clear . I , for one , think it is a film worth watching ! Grady Harp
Another Little Jewel of a Film from Australian Cinema	VIOLET'S VISIT may retrace old ground covered by other successful movies , but as written by Andrew Creagh and Barry Lowe based on a story by Richard Tarner and directed by Richard Turner this take on the joys and trials of surprise gay parenting is fresh and as unprejudiced a look as has come along in a long time . Violet aka Scooter ( Rebecca Smart ) at fifteen tires of her small town life living with a mother who repeatedly introduces new ' Dads ' ( Scooter was a love child ) and strikes out to Sydney to seek her biologic father , having been informed of his identity by her grandfather . She enters Sydney , backpack in place , and finds the address of the father whom she has never met . A knock on the door produces Pete ( David Franklin ) a lawyer who has been partnered with gym owner Alec ( Graham Harvey ) for eight years , living an openly gay life complete with extended family and successful careers . Scooter naturally thinks Pete is her father , but soon discovers on Alec's return home that Alec is her biologic father and has denied her existence to everyone , including clueless Pete . Scooter is chagrined at her father's lifestyle as much as Alec is perplexed at having to face a fifteen-year-old daughter , a simple girl who seeks to be a designer ( of kitschy objects ) instead of attending school . With Pete's intervention and big heart the trio grow into a comfort zone and Scooter moves in with Alec and Pete . Gradually the roles of father impact both Alec and Pete , and Scooter grows frustrated when she is unable to find friends and feels as outsider . She becomes infatuated with a friend of her fathers - Wayne ( Caleb Packham ) - only to discover that he , too , is a happily adjusted gay man . When Alec and Pete are caught up in a disagreement about their new living situation , Scooter takes to the streets . Her extended absence only serves to bring the couple together in a new appreciation for the importance of family and their mutual love for Scooter . The way in which the story is resolved is predictable but genuinely warm and tender . Not only is the film well paced , it never makes the error of going over the top in its depiction of either Scooter's plight or in the manner in which gay people are realized . All of the male actors are handsome , buff late 30s / early 40s and are so comfortable in their roles that their sexuality is simply an aside . Graham , Franklin , and Smart are excellent actors and their screen presence engenders an audience response of credible warmth . The one aspect of the film that may present a problem for non-Australian viewers is the fact that the Aussie accents are so thick that the script at times is indecipherable ! But that also adds to the flavor of this small but significantly impactful film . Well Done !
Not Just Another ' Team Sports Cure Every Evil ' Film	It seems like the past few years have seen a run on sports films that demonstrate the power of learning sportsmanship on a team level can alter the lives of the misbegotten youths suffering from the angst of society's perceptions . We've been through soccer , baseball , tennis , dance , track and football : GRIDIRON GANG uses football as the pivotal point , but due to the presence of a fine script by Jeff Maguire who adapted Jac Flanders documentary film , and cohesive poignant direction by Phil Joanou who knows how to move a large cast around and keep it personal , and most of all due to the overpoweringly fine performance by Dwayne ' The Rock ' Johnson this film is so honest and uplifting that it doesn't leave a dry eye in the audience . The story is well known : Probation Officer Sean Porter ( Johnson ) is frustrated that the boys in his camp for young criminals when released to the streets show 75 % returning and a large number dying in gang related violence . He sees this trend as being due to the lack of self-esteem in kids whose lives outside are demeaning and encourage failure . He gathers support from his fellow workers Malcolm Moore ( Xzibit ) , Paul Higa ( Leon Rippy ) and Ted Dexter ( Kevin Dunn ) and gradually builds confidence in his project to organize a football team of his inmates . We wisely get to know the background of a few of the more difficult incarcerated boys , a fact that makes the project more full of tension and understanding of the problems to be resolved . Though most of the cast are unknowns , they are fine actors in this film : Jade Yorker , David V . Thomas , Setu Taase , Mo , James Earl , Trever O'Brien , Brandon Mychal Smith , Danny Martinez , Joe Seo , and Joey Lucero . Through the team's growth as a unit they confront and manage to cope with problems and grow into goal-driven , good spirited young men . The presence of Dwayne ' The Rock ' Johnson is stunningly underplayed and all the more powerful for it . This is a sensitive performance that places Johnson in an all new category of respect as an actor . The film is overly long ( 120 minutes ) due to repeated games the team plays and for devotees of Football that will be a positive aspect . But far more important than the games is the quiet growing of trust and faith that shows in the faces of this fine cast . Recommended viewing , especially for those who think they have seen too many sports related do-good films ! Grady Harp
A Visual Masterwork	PERFUME - THE STORY OF A MURDERER may not succeed on every level . Based on the novel DAS PERFUM by Patrick Süskind and prepared for the screen by Andrew Birkin , Bernd Eichinger , and director Tom Tykwer , this is a story more about the senses than about people . The main character is not the sort of man with whom we can identify , but the progress of this crazed youth into the olfactory madness of serial killing for the sake of creating perfumes does provide an opportunity to study life in the 18th century in a way seldom available for viewers . It is clumsy in spots , protracted in length , and a bit tedious in the telling , but visually this is a movie that is a feast ( ? ) for the eyes . Jean-Baptiste Grenouille ( Ben Wishaw ) is born in poverty and while he is thought to be stillborn , he survives and is found to have an extraordinary sense of smell . His youth is spent in work houses and slavery until one famous Italian perfumer Giuseppe Baldini ( Dustin Hoffman ) , living in Paris , discovers Grenouille's gifts and takes him on as an apprentice . The lad learns the technique of vaporizing and boiling essences but when he asks Baldini how to capture the smell of ' anything at all ' ( particularly the scent of women ) , Baldini sends him off to study the technique of ' enfleurage ' , a manner of embedding flowers in fat until their essences are absorbed yield a pure form in the distillation of the melted fat . Grenouille begins to capture women to coat them in fat to obtain their scent and in doing so he begins his cycle of murders of the victims . When he encounters the lass Laura ( Rachel Hurd-Wood ) who would steal his attention , her father Richis ( Alan Rickman ) finally puts and ending to the macabre tale of Perfume . In many ways , though the cast performs well , the star of the production is the cinematography by Frank Griebe and the accompanying musical score by Reinhold Heil , Johnny Klimek , and ( yes ) Tom Tykwer . At 147 minutes the movie is too long for the story , but the setting and moods created are well worth watching . Grady Harp
Borders and Bridges	The Israeli / Palestinian conflict persists and while the world may be aware of the violence surrounding the division of the two countries , few have a clue to the other aspect of the division - the group of people who want peace and work toward eradicating the separation . Eytan Fox , in THE BUBBLE ( ' Ha-Buah ' ) , has created a much needed alternative viewpoint of the schism , electing to tell a story that contains some fine humor , a lot of love , and a taste of brutal reality . It is a window into a situation that begs for understanding . In Tel Aviv three close friends are roommates : Lulu ( Daniela Virtzer ) , a beautiful young woman with strong opinions ; Yali ( Alon Friedman ) , a very ' out ' gay young man who works in a popular café ; and Noam ( Ohad Knoller ) , a handsome , somewhat shy fellow who , in addition to his day job in a music shop , is a member of the National Guard and therefore spends his free time serving as a guard at the city's checkpoints . It is during one of these guard duty weekends that he meets a young Palestinian named Ashraf ( Yousef ' Joe ' Sweid ) , and a mutual attraction occurs . The three friends decide to ' stowaway ' the illegally present Ashraf ( whom they nickname with an Israeli name ) and while Ashraf and Noam settle into a love relationship , Yali hires Ashraf at his café , and Yali and Lulu both proceed to find love interests , too . All goes well until Ashraf must return home for his sister's wedding . Though in Tel Aviv Ashraf has been able to be openly gay with Noam , life is far different in Jerusalem : Ashraf is told he must marry his sister's groom-to-be sister . In an attempt to rescue Ashraf from his fate , Noam and Lulu disguise themselves as French reporters to gain access to Ashraf . In a moment of supposed seclusion , Noam and Ashraf are discovered kissing by the groom-to-be , and this act gives cause for blackmail in order for Ashraf to remain ' in the closet ' . While the young people in Tel Aviv are dancing at an event to raise attention for peaceful coexistence , an attack occurs in Jerusalem - one that has grave consequences not only immediately , but also in the revenge mission Ashraf must now assume . The ending is tragic on many levels and it underlines just how serious the problem between these two countries is . The acting is so very natural that from both the comedic and the tragic aspects the audience completely believes in these beautiful young people . The story finds the right balance between the serious and the lighthearted and it is this balance than makes Eytan Fox such a fine writer / director . More people should watch this important and very fine film . In Hebrew , Arabic , and English with subtitles . Grady Harp
A Little Film with Heart : Appreciating Fine Actors	BONNEVILLE creeps up on the viewer . It is a solid marriage of light comedy and sentiment and the somewhat slight story is brought to life by the natural gifts of a trio of superb actors . Why it did not find popularity in the theaters is probably due to the topic of death and the cast of ' older actresses ' , but it is a solid little film that deserves more attention . Arvilla ( Jessica Lange ) has lost her husband of 20 years and promised to scatter his ashes over places the couple loved . Her step daughter Francine ( Christine Baranski ) demands the ' ashes ' be buried next to her mother's grave in Santa Barbara , threatening her stepmother with eviction from her Pocatello , Idaho home if Arvilla doesn't comply . Two of Arvilla's friends - the restless widow Margene ( Kathy Bates ) and the oh-so-Mormon Carol ( Joan Allen ) support their friend and plan to fly with Arvilla to take the ashes to Santa Barbara . But circumstances begin to change when the threesome bond tightly and decide to take Arvilla's husband's old Bonneville on a road trip to California . From here on the film is a Road Trip - a time when the three women learn lessons about life and death and love and compassion from each other - and from a young hitchhiker Bo ( Victor Rasuk of ' Saving Victor Vargas ' , ' Stop - Loss ' etc ) and trucker Emmett ( Tom Skirrett ) . The trip from Idaho to California passes through some of the Southwest's most beautiful scenery , places once shared by Arvilla and her late husband , and slowly the urn of ashes is distributed along the way to the dreaded Santa Barbara funeral . Christopher N . Rowley directs this sweet story by Daniel D . Davis with great respect for the gifts of the three fine actors , allowing them to show us just why they remain some of our finest talent on the screen . It is not a great film , but it has such a fine heart that we can relax and just ride along with it . Grady Harp
A Small Town in the Vast Plains of Wyoming Bring Focus to Alienation	Lasse Hallström has the gift to capture the aura of a place and time and allow that atmosphere to color the characters in his stories , making everything he does feel natural and possible . In this very fine film AN UNFINISHED LIFE the setting is the vastness of Wyoming , in a town where everyone knows everyone and remembers everything , but the townsfolk also hold a profound respect for privacy and personal pain . Einar Gilkyson ( Robert Redford ) is a man in his 60's whose son was killed in an automobile accident eleven years ago , an accident in which this son's wife Jean ( Jennifer Lopez ) was driving . Jean left the little town , pregnant with her daughter Griff ( Becca Gardner ) , and has been living a life of guilt and remorse partially relieved by frequent lovers - the latest being the severely abusive Gary ( Damian Lewis ) whose beatings of Jean and Griff result in Jean's leaving him to go to Wyoming where she hopes Einar will allow her to board until she earns sufficient funds to move on . Einar lives on the same little farm with his long time friend and helper Mitch ( Morgan Freeman ) and Einar lives with the grief of the loss of his son and with the need to tend to the ailing Mitch who was mauled by a bear . Jean and Griff enter the town and convince the reluctant Einar to allow them temporary quarters : Jean finds work as a waitress at the local café run by Nina ( Camryn Manheim ) and meets the handsome sheriff Crane ( Josh Lucas ) . Slowly these disparate people assimilate over mutual needs and the presence of Jean and the granddaughter Einar never knew he had mends old wounds and leads to adventures that bring their bizarre circle of life to resolution . Boasting a strong cast and fine script by Mark Spragg and Virginia Korus Spragg , Hallstrom keeps tight reigns on a drama that could have easily splintered into too many sidebars . He makes us work to understand the motivations of each of his characters , a fact that makes the story more involving . Redford , Freeman , and Lopez are excellent as are the lesser but fine roles by Gardner , Lucas , Manheim , and Lewis . Though shot in Canada the feeling of the Wyoming plains is palpable through the fine cinematography of Oliver Stapleton . This is a quiet film of brooding feelings and buried hurts , but the window for redemption is left ajar to open in the end . Grady Harp
The Birth of Psychoanalysis : Friedrich Nietzsche , Dr Josef Breuer and Freud	WHEN NIETZSCHE WEPT gives us an insight into the beginnings of Psychology and particularly the Treatment of Talking as begun not by Sigmund Freud , but instead by the brilliant yet troubled mind of philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and the Viennese physician Dr . Josef Breuer . Pinchas Perry adapted the novel by the same name by Irvin D . Yalom and also directs this period piece . The film works on many levels : the flavor of the period is well captured ( though Vienna in the film is Bulgarian locations ! ) , the ideas are fresh to some , and the pacing and use of moments of fine classical music tidbits add flavor . If only more attention had been paid to the theories discussed . . . 1872 is the time and two men are haunted by demons , and the ' demons ' happen to be failed love affairs with famous women . Dr . Josef Breuer ( Ben Cross ) is a famous physician but is obsessed with an hysterical young woman Bertha ( Michal Yannai ) . Another beautiful lady enters Breuer's world in the form of Lou Salome ( Katheryn Winnick ) who has had a brief affair with the philosopher Nietzsche ( Arman Assante ) and feels he needs Breuer's help with his ' Talk Therapy ' . The two men meet , share fears , and agree to a mutually beneficial relationship : Breuer will help Nietzsche with his migraines ( due to his obsession with Lou Salome ) and Nietzsche will share his philosophical approach to the world to help Breuer with is recurring nightmares . The resulting experience is an introduction to psychoanalysis as a treatment , a treatment that fascinates the young Freud ( Jamie Elman ) . The action is a bit heavy on the dream and surreal sequences instead of being a learned exploration of a very important period of history . The quality of acting is variable : Assante seems the only one to wholly grasp his role as Nietzsche . The film has many flaws but in the end it is an interesting introduction to the history of an important movement in medicine . It takes patience to watch but it is well worth the viewer's time . Grady Harp
A Fantasy Well Grounded in Reality	CS Lewis ' The Chronicles of Narnia may very well have been a book intended for children but it was also the result of a life through the Great Wars and the effects those wars had one the individual . Gratefully in Andrew Adamson's directorial hands that part of the story that lends the need for the fantasy is preserved . The concept of separating children from their parents during the Blitz in London in WW II is now showing up in many novels . Lewis was one of the first to address the trauma these separations had on children . Adamson opens his film with some fine footage of the aerial German blitz and the terror of the Londoners running for bomb shelters . The family in focus is the Pevensie family - Lucy ( Georgie Henley ) , Edmund ( Skandar Keynes ) , Peter ( William Moseley ) , and Susan ( Anna Popplewell ) - and these four children are sent off to a safe mansion owned by the Professor ( Jim Broadbent ) . The mansion has a wardrobe that begins the fantasy , Lucy being the first to enter the kingdom of Narnia through the back of the wardrobe . Soon the four children are all together in the snowy place and encounter first a faun , then the Queen of Narnia / White Witch ( Tilda Swinton ) and there begins the struggle for domination and secrets that gradually resolve the mystery of Narnia , that mystery carefully paralleling Christianity through the forces of the kind Lion Aslan ( Liam Neeson ) . The children are wonderful , especially Georgie Henley , and while the story deals with human creatures it is strong . As the various CGI animals enter ( fine though they may be as creations ) the tale for this viewer weakens a bit , but that is a personal response . In general with work like that from Tilda Swinton and Jim Broadbent along with the children , the movie form of Narnia is convincing and enchanting . Quibbles aside , it is a charming film . Grady Harp
' Brother , can you spare a dime ? '	The lead-in cinematic and musical elements for this delightfully entertaining , fast paced , little bit of nostalgia film prepares the viewer for the story as well as any ' overture ' could . The setting is London in the 1930s , the day of the first blitzkrieg , and the tone of the imagery is that quiet depression and angst that tainted the world during that time . We meet our main character Miss Guinevere Pettigrew , a dowdy , middle-aged failed governess as she wanders through the streets and soup kitchens - all to the tune of ' Brother , can you spare a dime ' . This ' day in a life ' abruptly changes when Miss Pettigrew , still saddened by the loss of her beloved in WW I and struggling to be moral as the daughter of a clergyman in a world gone to tatters . How she finds one day of joy - and in the process changes the lives of those she encounters - is the line of the story , a screenplay by David Magee and Simon Beaufoy based on the novel of the same name by Winifred Watson and directed with a fine sense of timing and comedy cum pathos by Bharat Nalluri . Quite by a fluke Miss Pettigrew ( Frances McDormand ) absconds the name of a potential client from her caustic job finder and rings the bell of one Delysia Lafosse ( Amy Adams ) , a beautiful young American manipulator of men living in one boyfriend's luxurious flat while entertaining others who may help her reach her dream of being a star on the musical stage . Delysia believes Miss Pettigrew to be a social secretary and immediately involves her in the game of her life of flirtation and illusion . Miss Pettigrew , at first shocked by the ' social setting ' , soon adapts and indeed supports Delysia's efforts of meandering through gentleman callers , and as Delysia finds Miss Pettigrew indispensable she dresses her well and introduces her to a life Miss Pettigrew finds quite foreign but equally fascinating . In rapid fire sequence , at times overlapping like a Keystone Cops movie , we meet Delysia's paramours ( played with devilish glee by Tom Payne , Mark Strong , and Lee Pace ) as well as high society dames ( Shirley Henderson ) and the one man who seems above it all - Ciarán Hinds . All of this wild dash through the superficial society affairs is played against the all but ignore threat of the impending WW II and it all happens in one day . But at the end of that day the bond between Miss Pettigrew and Delysia is genuinely sealed and for a moment at least it seems Miss Pettigrew's previously dour existence has changed . A fine cast , an intelligent director and a cinematographer John de Borman and musical director Paul Englishby make this bit of froth into a confection that contains some social commentary ingredients . The costumes and sets are splendid and provide a view of London before the devastation of the war that is rich in nostalgia . Not a great movie , but a delightful romp that allows McDormand and Adams the opportunity to demonstrate their considerable comedy gifts . Grady Harp
Espionage , One Slow Step At A Time	THE GOOD SHEPHERD may take a lot of patience to sit through the nearly three hour tale written by Eric Roth ( Munich , Forrest Gump , Ali , The Horse Whisperer , etc ) and directed with meticulous attention to detail by Robert De Niro , but in the end the film about the creation of CIA ( " ever notice that no one these ' the CIA ' just like no one use ' the God ' ? " ) . And although the script confuses the viewer by its propensity to meander over many time frames and many places , the result is a tense attention holding look at the machinations of big government and frightening big Intelligence organizations . We first meet Edward Bell Wilson ( Matt Damon , who carries the film well ) as a son who witnesses his father's suicide , a fact he will hide for years . He follows in the family footsteps of attending Yale , participating in the infamous Skull and Bones secret club , and progressed to join the government as an agent for Intelligence , eventually helping to form CIA and participate in the Cold War tension with Russia and the Bay of Pigs incident . Wilson is a nebbish on the surface , but underneath lies a man devoted to his country and a man capable of maintaining heavy secrets , even from his wife-of-necessity Clover ( Angelina Jolie ) whom he marries solely because he got her pregnant . He is distant , covert , and seemingly cold , a trait that he will pass on to his son whose life following CIA results in tragedy . Along the way from this personal side of the story the plot is filled with politicians , spies , Russian , moles , double agents - all the expected and needed characters for a story of this sort . The cast includes such important actors as Billy Crudup , Joe Pesci , Alec Baldwin , a superb Tammy Blanchard , Robert De Niro himself , Keir Dullea , Michael Gambon , William Hurt , John Turturro , Timothy Hutton and Gabriel Macht , each performing excellent cameos . The production values are equally strong with Robert Richardson as director of photography mixing historical footage with atmospheric cinematography , a fine musical score by Bruce Fowler and Marcelo Zarvos , and a tight editing by Tariq Anwar . The film could easily have been cut by an hour without damaging the effect , but there is something to be said for the level of tension achieved by De Niro's choices that gives us a feeling of being a part of the Intelligence schemes . It takes patience , but the film is worth viewing . Grady Harp
Things are not what they seem : A Study of Governmental Abuses	SHOOTER is a fast paced , well-photographed , imaginative thriller - the kind of movie that does not allow the attention span to wander for a second if the full impact of the drama is to be appreciated . Based on the popular novel ' Point of Impact ' by Stephen Hunter and adapted for the screen by Jonathan Lemkin , this is a story we don't want to know : the Intelligence and Security of the US are shown to influenced by financial gains , greed , and lawlessness - all undercover in the most frightening ways . Director Antoine Fuqua ( ' Training Day ' , ' Tears of the Sun ' , ' King Arthur ' ) knows his way around this kind of material and it is to his credit that he keeps the tension almost unbearably high for nearly two hours . Retired military sniper Bob Lee Swagger ( Mark Wahlberg ) is living a lonely but secure life in the mountains until he is approached by Colonel Isaac Johnson ( Danny Glover ) to return to the art of killing : the President is threatened by an assassin and only Bob will be able to trace the paces that will prevent the event from happening . Bob returns to Washington , DC , Baltimore , and Philadelphia ( the three places where the possible assassination could take place ) and leads the FBI and CIA to the point of discovery , and at that time everything changes : to share the facts and events would be to spoil the innumerable surprises that alter the events of the story . Bob discovers who his real friends are ( Kate Mara and Michael Peña ) and the rest of the film is a chase and destroy mission that has the viewer gripping the chair . Mark Wahlberg continues to prove that he is more than a hunky underwear model ( though he is keeping his physique in perfect form ! ) and delivers one of his most completely realized characterizations of his career . The supporting cast includes such stalwarts as Ned Beatty , Elias Koteas , Rade Serbedzija as well as Glover , Mara and Peña , and each manages to make some fairly unbelievable roles credible . SHOOTER is not a great movie , but as an action / thriller / suspense film it ranks with the best of them . Grady Harp
Finding Redemption in Tragedy	RAILS & TIES , under the guidance of first time director Alison Eastwood , tackles an implausible subject of multiple tragedies resulting in repairing personal breaks and with the able assistance of a groups of excellent actors makes a finely tune , sensitive study of little lives struggling against major odds . It is well conceived , well written ( Micky Levy ) , well acted and sincerely moving . Tom Stark ( Kevin Bacon ) is a train engineer , married to his job as well as being married to his nurse wife Megan ( Marcia Gay Harden ) who is facing the ugly fact that her breast cancer is terminal . The cancer has spread beyond Megan's body into the tenuous space that keeps a marriage glued : Megan attempts to hide her desperate need for emotional support by continuing to work as a nurse and Tom takes on extra train runs to avoid the reality that face him at home . The other side of the story is equally sad : young Davey Danner ( Miles Heizer ) cares of his psychologically shattered mother ( Bonnie Root ) and unknowingly accompanies her on a jaunt to ' see the train ' - a ploy well planned by the suicidal mother to drive in front of an oncoming train to end her life along with Davey's . The conductor of the train is of course Tom Stark , and when Tom first sees the car on the tracks , he keeps to company policy that recommends gradual slowing rather than the danger of an abrupt stop : the result is the death of Davey's mother but Davey escapes the crash while trying to pull his mother from the car . The tragedies mount : Davey is left homeless , being placed in a foster home run by the cruel ' mom ' ( Margo Martindale ) only to escape to find the ' killer ' of his mother ; Tom is put on leave for the incident ; Megan gets the final word that she has very little time left and is ready to leave the distant Tom . It is this inadvertent entrance of Davey into the lives of Tom and Megan that results in a healing of three souls who are desperate for the connection of love . While some my find the story implausible and saccharine , others will appreciate the manner in which Eastwood holds rein on the story , playing it for quiet honesty instead of explosive situations . Both Bacon and Harden deliver the quality of sophisticated performances that have marked their careers , and the remainder of the cast gives strong support - especially Eugene Byrd , Marin Hinkle , Bonnie Root , Margo Martindale , and of course Miles Heizer . This is a tough story to tell but the film holds an indelible mark on the viewer . Grady Harp
Choices and their ramifications	The French title of this film is IN EXTREMIS ( though translated as TO THE EXTREME ) and means ' in desperate circumstances , especially at the point of death ' . Rethinking the story of this interesting but problematic movie in those terms after viewing gives the cinematic effort more poignancy . This is a tale of the impact of family , loss of parents , dissolution of the core unit has on us all : in this story we are asked to exam the ' in extremis ' state of such trauma . Thomas ( Sébastien Roch ) is a hedonist , a handsome young man whose parents died in an Alpine accident , and a man who sleeps with both sexes in a confused state of true identity . He lives with one of his female lovers who has a young teenage son Grégoire ( Jérémy Sanguinetti ) whom he loves as a son . When the mother accidentally dies , Grégoire wants Thomas to be his guardian . Thomas ' lifestyle does not lend itself to fatherhood and though he deeply loves Grégoire , by law and by proclivity he cannot assume the role of foster parent . Even with the aid of his prostitute sister Anne ( Julie Depardieu ) he is unable to keep the disappointed Grégoire from being sent to a prison-like orphanage . Thomas finds solace from his lover Vincent ( Aurélien Wiik ) and from his excursions into the bohemian all night orgies where he attempts to forget his promise to be available at all times for Grégoire . Eventually Thomas ' devotion to Grégoire overcomes his hedonistic addiction and results in his aiding the boy's escape from the orphanage to move with him to the home in Ibiza his deceased parents owned . The story has a bizarre but touching ending , which comes totally unexpectedly , and revealing it would ruin the impact and message of the film . Director / writer Etienne Faure ( ' Prisonnier ' , and ' À la recherché de Tadzio ' which is included on this CD and traces the life of the actor Bjørn Andresen who played Tadzio in the film ' Death in Venice ' ) directs his actors well but is less successful in finding the interaction of flashbacks , fantasies , graphic indulgences and superimposed poetry inundated with noisy music . But given these distractions the film still makes a simple case for the significance of family - genetic and extended - and therein is the power of the story . This is obviously the work of a young director with copious ideas about film and as such one can forgive many of the early experimental indulgences because the heart is in the right place . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' Two drifters , off to see the world ' from " Moon River "	Director João Pedro Rodrigues and writer Paulo Rebelo ( ' O Fantasma ' ) collaborate again on this fascinating ( if a bit frustrating ) Portuguese film ODETE ( ' Two Drifters ' ) . Together they have their own brand of surrealism and exploration of fantasies that seems to be developing into a smart new look for cinema . The very controversial ' O Fantasma ' was dark and brooding , tearing open psyches like feral dogs along the slums of Portugal , whereas ' Two Drifters ' is a work in the daylight that moves the concentration from men only to men and women - but the extremes of behavior are still in sharp focus . The film opens with a very tender moment between handsome student Pedro ( João Carreira ) and his working boyfriend Rui ( Nuno Gil ) : it is their anniversary but their individual obligations prevent them from spending more than a hasty goodbye , exchanging rings , and off goes Pedro in his car only to be killed in a crash . Devastated , Rui attends to Pedro and then to the horror of sitting by his casket during the wake before the funeral . Flash into storyline two : the beautiful store skater Odete ( Ana Cristina De Oliveira ) lives with her lover Alberto ( the hunky Carloto Cotta ) but when she announces she would like to have a child , Alberto flees and Odete is left in depression over her plight . She just happens to be a neighbor of the recently dead Pedro and in her loneliness she attends Pedro's wake , follows the casket through the funeral and to the grave where she begins to obsess over the dead Pedro . She spends her time draped across his grave , fantasizes that she is pregnant by him and confronts Pedro's mother with the concept . She truly has pseudosiesis ( false imagined hysterical pregnancy ) and when it is an exposed condition she alters her appearance , cutting her hair and wearing Pedro's clothes and even convincing Pedro's mother to let her sleep in his bed . Ultimately Odete , now inhabiting the persona of Pedro , rejects Albert's return to her graces and instead enters into a bizarre arrangement with Rui . The actors are all physically beautiful people , superbly cast to fit the models of the personalities of the story , and they manage to make this rather incredible tale credible . The film is rich in symbolism and metaphors , among them the title of the English version ' Two Drifters ' - a phrase taken form the favorite fantasy song ' Moon River ' that is the theme of Pedro's and Rui's relationship . There are some distorted sexual scenes and innuendos that may be off-putting to some , but the inclusion works for the story . It is a tough little film but dazzling in its brave little way of taking chances , making us eager to see what João Pedro Rodrigues will do next ! Grady Harp
A Modern Day Reflection of ' Harold and Maude '	DRIVING LESSONS is a little film that sneaks up on you . What at first seems to be a bit of fluffy nonsense comedy British style is at its base a very fine story about coming of age and the needs for significant friendship of both the young and the elderly . Writer Jeremy Brock ( ' Mrs . Brown ' , ' Charlotte Gray ' , ' The Last King of Scotland ' ) here directs his own screenplay and the result is a cohesive , progressively involving tale filled with fascinating and diverse characters , each performed by sterling actors . Ben Marshall ( Rupert Grint , standing firmly on his own as a developing actor post ' Harry Potter ' series ) is a quiet , plain little poetic seventeen-year-old living with his bird watching Vicar father ( Nicholas Farrell ) and his obsessive compulsive , rigid , evangelical do-gooder mother ( Laura Linney ) in a home where ' needy people ' , such as the murderous cross-dressing Mr . Fincham ( Jim Norton ) , take precedence over family matters : the mother is by the way having an affair with priest Peter ( Oliver Milburn ) , using Ben as her cover ! Sad Ben is among other things attempting to learn to drive a car . His mother is a poor teacher and decides he needs professional lessons AND needs to get a job to help pay for poor Mr . Fincham's needs . Ben follows an ad and meets Dame Eve Walton ( Julie Walters ) , an elderly has-been actress who is as zany as any character ever created . She hires Ben and the fireworks begin . Through a series of incidents , including a camping trip Evie demands they take , the two learn life's lessons missing from each other's natures : Ben learns self respect and self confidence and Evie finds a true friend who will allow her to drop her stagy facade and be the dear human being she has been hiding . Julie Walters , always offering the finest skills of acting in every character she creates , finds a role like no other here : she is outlandishly wild and lovable . Rupert Grint is exactly the right choice for the challenged coming of age Ben . The chemistry between the two is as tender as that in the classic film ' Harold and Maude ' . Laura Linney is as always a superb actress playing a role quite different from her usual repertoire . And the supporting cast is a panorama of fine characterizations . This film is a delightful surprise and one sure to warm the heart and entertain those who love fine writing and direction and acting - and message ! Grady Harp
Professional Life , Hedonism and the Meaning of Friendship in Madrid	AMOR DE HOMBRE is a smart , snappy , fast-paced , entertaining little film which considering its release date of 1997 was a precursor to the now frequent appearance of films that deal with tender relationships between gay men and straight women ( ' My Best Friend's Wedding ' and all the spin-offs ) . It is a smart script , well cast and acted and directed and scored and should be given the chance for a theater release now , in more expansive gender-friendly times . Ramón ( Andrea Occhipinti ) is a handsome , successful lawyer in Madrid who happens to be gay and unlike most of his friends has not settled into a partnership . His closest friend is Esperanza ( Loles León ) who is a divorced school teacher , just turned 40 , who love Ramón and constantly tries to help him find the ' right man ' while Ramón tries to help her find her ' right man ' . They party together with all of Ramón's professional friends - doctors , businessmen , teachers - and Ramón is hedonistic enough to have a different be partner every evening . After an automobile accident in which Ramón is injured , Esperanza moves in to care for him , a care that includes asking one of her fellow Phys Ed teachers Roberto ( Armando del Río ) to offer physical therapy and massage to the ailing Ramón . Because Roberto seems to rebuff Ramón's growing obsession with an unattainable straight man , the therapy ends when Ramón is able to walk . A twist occurs once Ramón is well and Roberto changes roles and is seductive to Ramón , a romance that comes to a tragic ending . In the end it is the quality of friendship between Ramón and Esperanza that provides the lasting nucleus of this tale . It is refreshing to see a film that focuses on healthy men who happen to be gay instead of a series of beleaguered victims of the usual stereotypes who end up with hopeless tragic lives . Yes , the circle of friends seems always on the watch for the ' new man on the block ' , but the cruising is healthy and fun . The movie works so well because of the fine writing and direction by an amazing team - Yolanda García Serrano and Juan Luis Iborra - who seem to have pared down life in Madrid's professional sector with a fresh eye on variety ! The cast is superb with special kudos to Loles León and Andrea Occhipinti . This is a light and very entertaining comedy with a message . Recommended . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' Hope is the worst of evils , for it prolongs the torments of man . ' Nietzsche	' You never get out of the sewer ' is the sad summary toward the end of this remarkable film from Macedonia . Director Svetozar Ristovski co-wrote this screenplay with Grace Lea Troje , a story of the struggle of youths in a country devastated with poverty and corruption - a place without hope . The message is grim , the story is brutal , but the impact is stunning . Marko ( twelve-year old Marko Kovacevic in a brilliant debut ) lives with his abusive , alcoholic father Lazo ( Vlado Jovanovski ) whose only work other than drinking is bingo games and who is in defiance of the American occupation of Macedonia ; his mute and terrified mother Angja ( Elena Mosevska ) who remains a pathetic victim of abuse ; and his trashy , angry , abusive sister Fanny ( Slavica Manaskova ) - all of whom hate each other and fill their hovel along the railroad tracks with cruelty . Marko happens to be a fine student who writes poetry and is encouraged by his Bosnian Professor ( Mustafa Nadarevic ) to write a poem for a competition that would reward him with a trip to Paris . Marko's schoolmates are disgusting thugs who beat him at every provocation : the Professor , fighting his own demons , does little to control his outrageous classroom . Marko escapes his ugly household by finding a spot on a deserted train where he can be alone and it is here that the movie takes on magic . Marko ' creates ' a friend named ' Paris ' ( Nikola Djuricko ) who gives him hope that Marko can come with him as he leaves the little cruel village . Paris teaches him to defend himself and to support himself through stealing and shoplifting , all with the goal of escaping from Macedonia . As Marko slips down the path of crime his teacher tries in vain to feed Marko's hope of writing his way to Paris , but when the gang of boys force Marko to the limit , Marko's new self challenges them , establishing his independence . The two beacons of Hope for Marko ( Professor and Paris ) both fade and the ending of the film comes as a shocking surprise , yet one that mirrors Nietzsche's astute quotation . This is a grim film to watch , overflowing with brutality of both the physical and the mental types , but the journey is worth it due to the overwhelmingly fine performance by Marko Kovacevic , a lad with the same degree of quiet facial expressiveness and acting skill as that of such greats as Giulietta Masina . The gritting , well-composed cinematography is by Vladimir Samoilovski and the haunting musical score is by Klaus Hundsbichler ( with a little help from Eric Satie ! ) . This is one of those films that is disturbing in the best sense of the word : it makes us think beyond our safe borders and contemplate the plight of the oppressed , both children and adults , in a country torn by recurring violence . In Macedonian and Bosnian with English subtitles . Recommended . Grady Harp
An Intelligent and Stylish Film That Goes Beyond Its Genre	BOY CULTURE is a very fine little film and were it being evaluated solely within the confines of gay films , it would easily rate 10 stars . It is well written , well directed , well acted and has messages that cover a fairly broad territory ( racism , homophobia , hustler life style , relationships , coming out tales and tales from the closet , etc ) . There are some technical flaws with the film and some unresolved character problems that prevent it from being what it comes close to being , but finally here is a gay themed film that is wise , entertaining , and user-friendly for a larger population than the community for which it was made . The story is biographical in nature : " X " ( Derek Magyar ) is a male hustler who lives off the income from a limited clientèle of regulars , who occupies a living space with two gay roommates - Andrew ( Darryl Stephens ) and Joey ( Jonathon Trent ) - and who has what he thinks it takes to make him happy . The missing element is love , and in several ways he comes into proximity with that missing thread : his newest client is Gregory ( Patrick Bauchau in a richly nuanced performance as a elderly closeted loner ) who introduces X to the finer things in life , including introspection and looking for what is missing in his world . Andrew is a conflicted African American man who still misses the caring he had with a girlfriend whose wedding he is to attend . Joey has just turned 18 and looks to X and Andrew as father figures . The problem is that X and Andrew have deeper feelings of attraction and commitment to each other than either wants to admit , and the story ( as narrated by X ) is about how this mutual challenging need is resolved . Q . Allan Brocka directed and co-wrote the film with Philip Pierce and the dialog is snappy at times and gently tender at others . The cast is quite fine : the young lads are top notch eye candy while bringing solid acting skills to their roles , and the older actors bring a since of resilience to the story that keeps it grounded in style . This is a very good little film that deserves a wider audience , one that needs to see this aspect of the population once considered merely peripheral . Movies like this help understanding interpersonal relationships , and everyone needs to address that . Grady Harp
A Love Triangle As Fragile and Lovely As Any Ever Filmed	ETERNAL SUMMER ( Sheng xia guang nian ) is a delicate , quiet , understated and eloquent study of youthful interpersonal relationships form Taiwanese director Leste Chen from a screenplay by Cheng-Ping Hsu based on the novel by the same name by Chi-yao Wang . The style of the film allows a wide audience to appreciate the sexual challenges of teenagers and understand the need for finding love and acceptance in a world at times too busy to care . The story begins in grade school where Jonathan Kang ( Bryant Chang ) is a gifted student asked to ' supervise ' another young boy in his class , Shane Yu ( the dazzlingly gifted young actor Joseph Chang ) who has an apparent learning disorder / attention deficit . Shane is rambunctious and athletically gifted while Jonathan is the quiet , reserved , brilliant student . The boys bond as children and grow up together into young men facing the exams for university entrance . A young girl Carrie ( Kate Yeung ) meets the two boys : first she challenges the studious Jonathan to take a trip to Taipei ( ditching school ) where she hopes to have a physical encounter . The hotel room is a disaster and Jonathan feels isolated from both Carrie's desires and from deserting his duties at school - and with Shane , who Jonathan loves far more than merely a best friend . Shane gradually moves into Jonathan's position as Carrie's physical companion and the resulting triangle results in confessions and incidents that allow each of the three involved young people to grow and understand the spectrum of love . The story is captured with exceptionally beautiful cinematic effects by cinematographer Charlie Lam and the atmosphere of play and passion is enhanced by the musical score by Jeffrey Cheng . Yet it is the sensitive direction by Leste Chen that encourages the three superb young actors to become immersed in their roles . Chen knows when to say enough ( the sex scenes are sensual and suggestive without even approaching an R rating ) and when to allow scenes of quiet and eye contact to carry the drama . This is a very fine film that deserves a wide audience , both young and old . Highly recommended . In Mandarin with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Heist Story with a Human Twist	THE LOOKOUT , written and directed by Scott Frank ( who also wrote ' The Interpreter ' , ' Minority Report ' , ' Get Shorty ' , ' Dead Again ' , etc . ) is a clever story of a bank robbery but that is really a secondary plot to this excellent drama that deals with characters with impairments and how they cope with the world at large . The cast is superb and the film ranks with the fine ' sleepers ' of the year . It is a movie that is not to be overlooked . Chris Pratt ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt , rapidly becoming one of the top screen presences ) is one year post automobile accident that has left him with altered memory function . Once a banner boy in athletics and scholastics , he is now reduced to living his life with the aid of a pocket notebook that ' reminds ' him to ' wake up , shower with soap , get dressed etc ' . He lives with a blind roommate Lewis ( Jeff Daniels in another fine performance ) who works with Chris , helping him adjust to his handicap by teaching him to work backwards in his thinking as an aid to progressive memory capture . Chris carries a card with him that informs people he is brain damaged and for the most part people are kind and help him go about his daily routine : he works as a janitor in a bank with the hopes of becoming a teller one day . Chris encounters an old acquaintance Gary ( Matthew Goode ) in a bar and after a conversation Gary sees Chris as a perfect foil for a planned robbery of the bank where Chris works at night . The mounting frustrations of Chris ' handicap bring him to the point where he will do anything for change and he hesitantly agrees to be the lookout for the back robbery . When the night of the robbery arrives and things go awry , Chris reverses his decision to participate and the traumas that occur bring Chris ' memory back and a surprise resolution to the story is very successful on many levels . The script is beautifully crafted and impeccably delivered by Gordon-Levitt , Daniels , Goode and the supporting cast . The DVD featurettes are almost as exciting in the information they offer , especially from Gordon-Levitt , as the film itself . This is an example of a low budget film that is smart , classy , addresses human issues in a straightforward manner , and has more depth than the majority of films that have come out this year . It is a film that is highly recommended viewing on many levels . Grady Harp
Another Glimpse into the Etiology of Family Fragility	Amidst all the big bang sequels to cartoons , actions flicks , horror movies , and potty mouth raunch films it is refreshing to find a continuous trickle of meaningful stories bravely presented to the public , unfortunately usually for a short screen time before they move on to DVD . Such is the case for THUMBSUCKER , a quiet little examination of the fragility of family life in the society we have created . Other films such as this one include Pieces of April , The Chumscrubber , Junebug , In the Bedroom , The Mudge Boy , Mean Creek etc - films that take unpopular subjects and use that as a pivotal point for opening superficial wounds in the integument of family units . Adapted from the novel by Walter Kirn , screenwriter and new director Mike Mills introduces us to the Cobbs , a Portland , Oregon family of four , each with secrets or private problems that prevent them from functioning at full capacity : father Mike ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) fractured his knee at the brink of a brilliant football career and married Audrey ( Tilda Swinton ) who , lost in the routine of a boring life , works as a nurse who fantasizes about a TV star Matt Schramm ( Benjamin Bratt ) to the point of entering contests to meet him ; youngest son Joel ( Chase Offerle ) is not allowed a life in the household dominated by the bizarre behavior of older brother Justin ( Lou Taylor Pucci ) who is a chronic underachiever and geek and still sucks his thumb at age 17 ! Justin is the pivotal role , ashamed of his addiction to thumbsucking but unable to control it until his orthodontist Perry ( Keanu Reeves ) applies hippie hypnosis in aversion therapy , putting Justin in touch with his inner ' Power Animal ' . Justin's failing grades and bizarre behavior prompt the school psychologist to diagnose ADD and Justin begins to take Ritalin . Pow ! Life changes : Justin becomes a star on the debate squad guided by teacher Mr . Geary ( Vince Vaughn ) , finally is approached by a mixed up girl Rebecca ( Kelli Garner ) who even introduces him to pot . No longer sucking his thumb , Justin becomes a champ - and an arrogant overachiever ! Audrey is assigned as RN to a drug rehab facility where one of her patients just happens to be Matt Schramm , her cocaine and multi-addicted actor / patient . Justin discovers his mother's connection to her fantasy as does Mike and the men of the family think Audrey is having an affair . Incidents occur which draw distant Mike and Justin together , solidify the close relationship of Audrey and Justin , and give Joel a special place of importance in the family . The kinks are ironed out in a well-orchestrated ending . Not much of a story , but if the film is examined as a series of character developments , folks whose lives influence each other , provide changes in self perception and acceptance , and suggest that maturation is an ongoing matter of evolving , then the power of the movie is significant . Each of the roles is filled by actors who surpass even their own standards : Tilda Swinton is amazing in the breadth of her emotional role ; Lou Taylor Pucci may be only 20 years old but he is a dynamite actor ; Vince Vaughn , Keanu Reeves , Benjamin Bratt and Vincent D'Onofrio - each out of their element - prove that given the right material they can produce subtle , nuanced performances . Mike Mills directs with the manner that makes us feel as though he is giving his talented cast utter freedom to create while maintaining the reins on the flow of the story . Outside of an obnoxious musical score that covers the lines of the actors whenever it is concurrent on the track there are few flaws . Yes , similar stories exist , and yes , the film could use some editing polish , but for a first film directing venture Mike Mills has a lot to say and orchestrates a fine cast in a memorable movie . Recommended for those who appreciate little films that quietly move us . Grady Harp
The Psychic Isolation of Two Hit Men in Bruges	Martin McDonagh makes an impressive writing and directing debut with the very fresh and entertaining and surprisingly well rounded film IN BRUGES . Though the basic storyline is rather simple , McDonagh knows how to keep it turning and twisting with generous amounts of humor as well as probing character development . He has assembled a cast of very fine actors , turned the cinematography of the gorgeous Belgian city of Bruges over to the capable creative hands of Eigil Bryld , and finished his project off with a fine musical score by the gifted Carter Burwell ( with a nod to Schubert and others ) : the result is a beautiful little film with messages galore and always a visual treat to see repeatedly . Two hit men - Ken ( Brendan Gleeson ) , a chubby , optimistic bloke who loves spending time with the sights of Bruges , and Ray ( Colin Farrell ) , an emotionally distraught young man in the throes of guilt from a botched ' hit ' that accidentally killed a young boy - have been sent by their ' boss ' Harry ( Ralph Fiennes ) to ' lay low ' after the botched murder of a priest ( Ciarán Hinds ) . It is Christmas season and there are too few rooms available so Ken and Ray reluctantly share a tiny hotel room to await further orders from Harry . Ken falls in love with the beauty of the city of Bruges while Ray , ever anxious and distrustful , finds some solace in a film being shot about ' midgets ' ( Jérémie Renie ) with behind the scenes girl Chloë ( Clémence Poésy ) . How these two Irish guys make the most of their enforced isolation ultimately leads to the real reason for their assignment , a reason that includes a last ' hit ' that sweeps the audience to a surprising ending . McDonagh writes very well , giving some of the best comedic lines to Farrell who proves himself a fine fit for this difficult role . Yes , it is another ' hit man film ' , but this one has the good fortune to deal with very real people , conflicted with their choice of ' occupation ' and who are hungry to share their tenuous lives with good friends . Though there is considerable bloody derring-do , the film uses the chase and kill scenes to good advantage , allowing the audience to feel the human side of those whose job it is to ' off ' others . Both Colin Farrell and Brendan Gleeson are superb and their roles are enhanced by a choice selection of character actors who speed the plot along nicely . This is a very entertaining movie , one that can be appreciated on many levels , and one that suggests that Martin McDonagh has a solid future in cinema . Grady Harp
A Small Independent Film with a Big Message	THE ARCHITECT is a film based on a play by David Grieg that deals with social class dichotomy , lack of communication in families , gender confrontations in youths , and coming to grips with decisions of the past that later haunt . Made on a budget less than a million dollars and shot in twenty days , this unique little movie packs a wallop in the most secretive and subtle way . Directed by Matt Tauber , who also wrote the screenplay with Grieg , it has a fascinating , if at times disconcerting , format of quick scenes flashed before our eyes like simultaneous conversations - and some of the power of the film is piecing those snapshots together as the film ends . Leo Waters ( Anthony LaPaglia ) is a successful architect , married to a wife Julia ( Isabella Rossellini ) who seems on the edge of mental instability . They have two teenage children - Christine ( a very fine young actress Hayden Panettiere ) who at age 15 is aware of her body and yet fearful of its implications in her interactions with boys and men , and Martin ( Sebastian Stan ) who has returned home from school as a drop out whose mind is preoccupied with soul searching . The discord at home is matched by the incipient calamity ongoing at a Project Leo designed early in his career , a Project now physically crumbling under the weight of drug dealing , crime , and discontent tenants - all led by activist Tonya Neeley ( the superb actress Viola Davis ) who has one daughter at home with an early conceived baby and another daughter who has stepped out of the Projects to better her education ( her twin brother committed suicide in despair of his plight in the Projects ) . Two families in conflict over different reasons on the surface but sharing a similarity that is demonstrated as the story proceeds . Christina naively begins to frequent bars and is protected by a truck driver Joe ( the very fine actor Walton Goggins ) who kindly introduces her to the realities facing hormonally charged yet fearful young girls . Martin , in an attempt to understand the Projects problem as explained to his father and family by Tonya , visits the Projects and meets Shawn ( the very fine and handsome young actor Paul James ) who cautiously helps Martin discover his sexuality only to succeed in allowing Martin to discover his true sexual proclivity but meets a sad ending when he is rebuffed . At the peak of tensions Tonya succeeds in winning over Leo's understanding of her activist dilemma , Julia breaks and leaves her family and both of Leo's children discover life lessons that will imprint their psyches permanently . Minor victories rise out of major turmoil - and the writer and director have the courage to leave the story for us to resolve . It is refreshing to encounter a cast of actors so sensitive as this one . From the leading roles to the most minor of characters the acting is absolutely first rate . We need more films of this caliber to remind us that one of the purposes of art is to allow us to see the problems of our world . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Transcending Evil , Discovering Humanity	Luc Besson's signature style is all over the writing of this very fine little film . His ability to push the buttons on the most violent screen business while gradually developing a tale of warm sentiment is well served by director Louis Leterrier and a perfect cast of actors . UNLEASHED is one of the few examples of how martial arts and bona fide drama can be mutually supportive in creating a film that is at once thrillingly athletic and gently tender . Bart ( Bob Hoskins ) is a brutish loan shark thug who makes his ' collections ' accompanied by his ' dog ' Danny ( Jet Li ) , a silent man Bart has raised form childhood to be a caged killer , a human with a dog collar that when removed unleashes a ferocious beast who kills on command of his master Bart . Bart keeps him in a cage , feeds him , and uses him solely for his criminal doings . Danny unleashed is simply a Pavlovian animal and when the collar is replaced , he becomes docile with the sad eyes of a puppy . During a ' collection ' gone bad , Danny escapes and finds shelter in an antique shop basement where he meets blind piano tuner Sam ( Morgan Freeman ) , a gentle man who gradually introduces Danny to music , trains him as his assistant , and introduces him to his ' family ' - his step daughter Victoria ( Kerry Condon ) . With the two of these welcoming , tender people Danny discovers how beautiful life can be . The story from this point is how Danny chooses between his Pavlovian response life as a killer and the simple life of Sam and Victoria . The journey is not without stressors and it is a difficult transition that keeps the viewer on seat's edge . The wonder of this film lies in the extraordinary performances not usually associated with martial arts films . Jet Li does some of his finest athletic fighting on film , but thankfully at the same time creates a character who is multidimensional and memorable - a very fine acting job by Li . Bob Hoskins is brilliant as the despicably cruel Bart , Morgan Freeman adds a luster to his fine portrayal of blind Sam , and Kerry Condon makes Victoria zany and lovable at the same time . The action is superbly captured by cinematographer Pierre Morel with the aura of darkness in Danny's caged life serving as a perfect foil to the martial arts sequences . In short , this is a fine little film about characters worth knowing and provides audiences with both action and drama of a very high level of achievement . Grady Harp
Dreams , Expectations , Fantasies : A Family Tale	' Que faisaient les femmes pendant que l'homme marchait sur la lune ? ' ( strangely ' translated ' for the English speaking audiences as FAMILY PACK ! ) is a fascinating , involving , probing , witty , tender little film from Belgium that uses a loaded homecoming to unfold a strange family's secrets and modes of adapting to the real world . It is a story , written by Chris Vander Stappen ( ' Ma Vie En Rose ' ) who also directs , to savor , to watch again , and to open some windows for thought after the credits go dark . Sacha Kessler ( Marie Bunel ) has been living in Montreal where her family thinks she is in Medical School and courting young doctors : she is actually in a happy lesbian relationship with Odile ( Macha Grenon ) and enjoys her group of a bit off-center but very supportive friends . The year is 1969 , significant in that Sacha has been requested to come out to her family living in Belgium before a man walks on the moon . Failing to admit her lifestyle on the telephone she returns after two years absence to her home in Belgium where she is to reveal her true status to her family . And what a family ! : her mother Esther ( Hélène Vincent in a sparkling role ) is a seamstress whose home business is failing but who assigns all of her fantasies for a better life on her ' doctor daughter ' ; her father Oscar ( Christian Crahay ) lives in a never land of dance and old jokes ; her grandmother Lea ( Tsilla Chelton ) still dresses up each morning to go to the train station where she thwartedly awaits the return of her ideal boyfriend of decades ago ; her dwarf sister Elisa ( Mimie Mathy ) who , feeling unwanted and ignored by her parents , concentrates her attentions on a goldfish who accompanies her everywhere . The story ties these wonderful but reality-disjointed people together with subplots that explain how each member of the family arrived at their state of denial and how Sacha's eventual revelation of the truth about her life actually draws the family together . Oh , it is much more complicated than that , but getting through the developments of the story is the joy of the film . Astute viewers will remember that 1969 was the year of man's first walk on the moon - and hence the analogy of the idea of the story . With a superb , solid cast of wondrously loony characters who find their way into our hearts despite their surface idiosyncrasies this creation by Chris Vander Stappen is pure magic . It has a solid if aberrant storyline , a simplicity in presentation that reveals a number of very important philosophical and psychological issues , and it entertains . In short , it is a joy and highly recommended for those viewers who take pleasure in watching potentially disastrous family reunions become meaningful positive journeys . Grady Harp
A Gentle Film That Deserves Wider Attention	MARTIAN CHILD was marketed incorrectly - that can be the major reason for its lack of success in the theatrical release . While all the multiplex theaters are overflowing with loud , coarse , raunchy , and special effects driven financial successes ( with major exceptions , of course ! ) , little meaningful and sensitive films such as this are submerged and don't last long . Should the name of the film have been different ? Should the advertisements been better designed ? Who knows , but for those who now have the opportunity to buy or rent MARTIAN CHILD , there is a special experience in store . Based on the novel ' The Martian Child ' by David Gerrold ( beautifully adapted for the screen by Seth Bass and Jonathan Tolins ) , Director Menno Meyjes has gathered an exceptional cast to present this story about human needs and how we all find security in the warmth of other caring beings . David ( John Cusack ) is a successful science fiction writer who is a widower , still grieving for his wife . His agent Jeff ( Oliver Platt ) , his sister Liz ( Joan Cusack ) and his wife's best friend Harlee ( Amanda Peet ) aid his ' convalescence ' , but David feels the need for a child . When social worker Sophie ( Sophie Okonedo ) calls David concerning an available strange little boy Dennis ( Bobby Coleman ) who believes he is from the planet Mars and hides inside a box , covered with sunscreen and dark glasses , David responds : he , after all , writes science fiction and is attracted to the idea that Dennis believes he is here from Mars on a mission . Against the advice of his practical sister , David agrees to take Dennis home , feeling that he is one of the few who can relate to Dennis ' behavior . Life at home is not easy , but with time David and Dennis bond and Dennis comes out of his box to become ' normal ' . It is the prolonged journey on which David and Dennis embark that holds the meat of the story . Dennis has been deserted as a small child and finds security in believing he is a visiting Martian who will be ' taken home ' to Mars when his mission to understand human beings is complete . David's persistent parenting ( quoting Churchill's ' Never ever , ever , ever , ever , ever give up ' ) , while tested to the extreme , results in a bonding with Dennis that is heart wrenchingly beautiful . And how each of the characters ' lives is changed by this extraordinary relationship brings the film to a touching close . In addition to the fine performances by both Cusacks , Peet , Platt , and Okonedo , there are brief but noteworthy cameos by Anjelica Huston and Richard Schiff among others . This is a film that makes a major statement about parenting and single parenting in particular and does so with kindness , tenderness , and sincere emotion . Please see this film . Grady Harp
An Unexpectedly Beautiful , Tender Tale in Time of War	WHERE ESKIMOS LIVE is one of those surprise films that appears out of nowhere , without ballyhoo , not apparently having been on the theatrical release circuit , yet once discovered serendipitously in the video store and watched , makes such an impact that its anonymity is a puzzle . Writer / director Tomasz Wiszniewski ( with Robert Brutter sharing the writing credits ) has created a unique and brave little film that takes advantage of some unknown terrain and retains the flavor of a country in all manner of representation . The place is Bosnia during the war when entire cities were being destroyed , leaving the children homeless , without parents , fending for themselves in any way possible . They live in squalor , in famine , stealing what they can to survive , yet holding together as a group with some sense of hopeless dignity . Among these boys is Vlado ( Sergiusz Zymelka ) , a street-smart kid always on the lookout for his Down's Syndrome friend while seeking any way possible to escape his fate . Enter Sharkey ( Bob Hoskins ) brandishing a UNICEF passport and badge ( he is from Norway where Eskimos live . . . ! ) trying to ' save ' one small boy from the war to freedom and protection across the border . He meets all manner of opposition , especially from the military Colonel Vuko ( Krzysztof Majchrzak ) , who decides to let Sharkey pass on the condition that Sharkey take his sole young daughter to safety . Fate strikes , the jeep with the Colonel's daughter explodes and Sharkey narrowly escapes with the Colonel in hot pursuit mistakenly thinking the landmine that destroyed the jeep was engineered by Sharkey . Sharkey encounter's Vlado's gang and eventually Vlado talks Sharkey into taking him as the ' saved ' boy , fully realizing that Sharkey's Unicef badge is a cover for his unlawful child marketing . The two bond slowly and in time each uses the other for their private goals and gradually they grow to need each other to survive . Their relationship is radiant and inspiring and leads them to surprising changes in their lives . The cast is extraordinary : Hoskins knows how to make an evil con man grow on his viewer and Sergiusz Zymelka is a gifted young actor . The film is difficult to watch at times because the camera does not shy away from the heinous crimes and gore of war , but that fact only serves to make the story more credible . The dialogue is a bit shallow and awkward at times , but the message is obviously from the heart . This is a fine low budget film from a Polish director and cast that makes us take notice of unknown talents . It is a fine little film ! Grady Harp
The Brits Show Us How OKLAHOMA ! Should be Staged	OKLAHOMA ! opened on Broadway in 1943 and became a classic - not only because the Rodgers and Hammerstein score was so strong , but also because Agnes De Mille was brought in to introduce serious choreography to the Broadway stage . For the past 64 years this musical comedy / drama has been on the boards both professionally and in high schools , colleges and community theaters and always meets with audience acclaim . In 1999 Trevor Nunn reshaped the work , added choreography by Susan Stroman , beefed up the orchestrations , and re-staged the old warhorse in London and the result is an entirely fresh look and appreciation for an ' American classic ' . Nunn opens the inner conflicts of the story and emphasizes some of the more minor characters , a move that adds to the dramatic flow of the work . Yet his biggest asset is the presence of Hugh Jackman as Curly , a handsome stage presence who also happens to possess a strong baritone singing voice and is an agile dancer . From the opening bars of ' Oh , what a beautiful morning ' he has us in his back pocket . The remainder of the cast is strong , with special kudos to Maureen Lipman as Aunt Eller , a woman of such plainsman power that she holds the story together with ease . Josefina Gabrielle as Laurey is a fine dancer and has a supple if monochromatic voice and brings a different kind of life to her role . And for once the sinister Jud Fry becomes an understandable villain in the fine work by Shuler Hensley . For those who don't like audible applause from an audience during a show the technique of making the film appear like a live production will disturb . For this viewer seeing the British audience become involved in the response of this musical made it that much more fun . This is a very fine performance and film of an old American treasure . Grady Harp
Visual Splendor for a Touching Romance	When the neighborhood movie houses seem to have an overwhelming number of martial arts films , both takeoffs on ' Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon ' quality and the ' Matrix ' clone dalliances , and when the whole concept of mind-boggling flying armed forms threatens to become passé , along comes another film by Yimou Zhang and the atmosphere changes . Zhang fully understands the choreographic possibilities if this genre of films and surpasses his fellow directors with his sensitivity to story . Yes , HOUSE OF FLYING DAGGERS has more special effects than can be listed here , but FINALLY the special effects embroider a tender love triangle in the year 859 AD at the core of the dissolution of the Tang Dynasty . Mei ( Ziyi Zhang ) is the daughter of the deceased leader of a dissident group called House of Flying Daggers , and posing as a dancer in the Peony Pavilion , seeks to kill the captain of the Tang army Jin ( Takeshi Kaneshiro ) . Under surveillance , both Mei and Jin are captured by loyalist Leo ( Andy Lau ) and while both escape , imprints of the two men and one woman have been set and the resulting chase leads to much action , fighting , and ultimate entanglement of the three in a tender and pathetic love triangle . How this resolves is the basis for the very supernatural ending . The story is sound and amazingly credible due to the fine acting by the trio . But the real glories of this symphonic excursion are the lush colors , magnificent costumes , the exquisite choreography of dance and martial arts , and the breathtaking camera work observing the forests and glens in the richest colors of autumn and winter . Simply stated , this film is dazzling and brilliantly conceived and executed . An additional factor in the film is the musical score by Shigeru Umebayashi interspersed with old Chinese songs played on authentic instruments . On the DVD there is a music video that features Kathleen Battle singing the main song , and while the song and the video are not remarkable , it is a pleasure to see that Kathleen Battle is still singing and , though somewhat older in appearance , still lovely of face and voice . The additional DVD features of the making of the film are far above average , especially Zhang's story of how the unexpected early snow during the shooting encouraged him to utilize this miracle of nature and indeed supply some of the more beautiful scenes in the film .
Making W . Somerset Maugham's Novel Visual	Though some readers who are familiar with the novel , ' The Painted Veil ' , may have quibbles about the altered sequences and places of action and character emphasis in Ron Nyswaner's screenplay , those disparities pale in comparison to the superb acting and cinematic treatment of Maugham's story about the development of love in the most unlikely situation . John Curran directs his superb cast with fluid movement , allowing the story to unfold in flashbacks in a manner suggestive of the longing and the nightmares of dreams . Bacteriologist physician Dr . Kane ( Edward Norton ) is devoted to his work , and part of his work is to quickly marry so that he may proceed with his obsession with his career . In London he is introduced to the reluctant Kitty ( Naomi Watts ) , a lass who continues to look for the perfect love of her life , but is confronted with reality when her father demands she marry . Kitty is not attracted to Dr . Kane but agrees to marry him and soon they are off to China . While in Shanghai ( no , not Hong Kong ) Kitty is bored until she meets Charlie Townsend ( Liev Schreiber ) who , though married and a man of public image , sweeps Kitty off her feet . Their affair is discovered by Dr . Kane and he insists that Kitty either follow him to a small village in interior China , a town besieged by cholera , or go public with a divorce . Kitty turns to her lover Charlie who refuses to divorce his society wife and Kitty sadly follows her husband to the sick village . Once settled in the village the couple is befriended by a fellow British gentleman Waddington ( Toby Jones ) and while Dr . Kane works devotedly with his patients and his epidemiological efforts to stem the cholera , Kitty finds refuge with a group of nuns who care for the children of the dead . The Mother Superior ( Diana Rigg ) helps Kitty to adjust and to see the inherent good in her husband , a man who is not only a fine physician but also able to accept the fact that his once disconsolate wife is pregnant , probably as a result of her dalliance with Charlie Townsend . As the couple begin to accept and appreciate each other the disease strikes home and the story ends with evidence of inner growth in everyone involved . Norton , Watts , Jones , and Rigg are radiant in their understated roles - Norton's English accent is superb . The beauty of the film is due in a large part to the beauty of the landscapes of China , but also in an equal part to the eloquent cinematography of Stuart Dryburgh and the musical score composed by Alexandre Desplat ( with a nod of Satie ) and played by pianist Lang Lang . The film is as soft in appearance as a painted veil and the mood it creates lingers - even for those who prefer the written novel ! Grady Harp
A Dazzling Kaleidoscopic Theme and Variations	Lola + Bilidikid ( Lola and Billy the Kid ) written and directed by the dynamic E . Kutlug Ataman is an immensely interesting view of the lives of Turks in Berlin . The many characters introduced at a seemingly random fashion all are woven in the loom of Ataman , becoming one connected tapestry of ethnic clashes , humor , drama , and intensely moving views of family and love . From the quiet moments at the beginning to the unexpected ending this film dazzles with color , music , highly developed character development by some fine actors , and edge of the seat tension . The Turkish subculture in Berlin is the hotbed for trouble between Turks and Germans . Add to this setting the fact that the film deals with the taboos of gay life , transgender and transvestite men , and the concomitant stresses of families who deal with these issues on a daily basis and the result is a film full of richly detailed stories . Lola ( Gandi Mukli ) , a Turkish drag queen has a lover Billy the Kid ( Erdal Yildiz ) , a macho , closeted Turk who views his role as the Man and Lola as the woman and encourages Lola to have gender altering surgery so they can live as husband and wife back in Turkey . Murat ( Baki Davrak ) is Lola's baby brother , also gay , living with his mother and older brother , Osman ( Hasan Ali Mete ) who disowned Lola for his proclivities . After 15 years Lola returns home to demand his inheritance share to proceed with his sex change and reunites with Murat eventually revealing murky family secrets : the results are tragic to all involved . This is the main story of the film . But there are many others ! There is a fascinating relationship between another Turk Iskender ( Murat Yilmaz ) who is picked up by an older elegant German Friedrich ( Michael Gerber ) whose affair meets with challenges from his aged but grand mother Ute ( a marvelous Inge Keller ! ) . And there is the gay bashing drama between young German lads and the Turks which instead of being simply an evil tragedy is a character study of why gay bashing occurs : the main perpetrator is ambivalent about his own sexuality and the way this story plays out is both gruesome and heartbreaking . Yes , there are other side stories but suffice it to say that Ataman has created a film mesmerizing in content and production . It is one of those films that pleads to be watched again after the various stories have been told : knowledge of the ending events is yet more potent the second time around . Recommended for lovers of art films . In German with subtitles . Grady Harp
Political Chaos from the Vantage of Children's Eyes	Andrés Wood is a highly regarded Chilean filmmaker , a man unafraid to take on controversial issues and present them in a manner that is revelatory to his audience , whether that audience is in Chile or other South American countries - or in Europe or North America . In MACHUCA he transports us to the year 1973 in Chile when Pinochet's military coup overthrew Allende's socialist ' democracy ' . Knowing that there remains a divided opinion of this period of time , a time when Allende supporters who could not escape the country were murdered or placed in detention camps as political prisoners , Woods sensitively recreates this period through the eyes of children from the populace divided by the middle class and the poor , a technique which works on every level . Saint Patrick's School for boys in Santiago is headed by a kind priest / principal Father McEnroe ( Ernesto Malbran ) and the rich to middle class uniformed boys include one ' strawberry faced ' , quiet , chubby Gonzalo Infante ( Matías Quer ) whose family is of means but has issues of covert infidelity with the mother ( Aline Küppenheim ) and father ( Francisco Reyes ) . The Allende government is shaky , and in an attempt to appease the poor class , Saint Patrick's School takes on students from the shantytowns to ' democratize ' education . Among these new students is Pedro Machuca ( Ariel Mateluna ) who seems to be a loner but soon becomes the brunt of the rich kids ' prejudice . Gonzalo befriends Pedro and gradually the two form a strong bond which leads to each of the boys learning about their separate families and life styles : Gonzalo's life of luxury dazzles Pedro while Pedro's humble shack houses warm family that Gonzalo envies . The friendship leads to a close examination of the schism of racism and political clashes brought into sharp focus as the military coup changes everything . Only friendship remains intact in a dramatically tested fashion . Andrés Woods marries the political and the human aspects of this chaotic time in Chile and offers us insights into the ongoing changing governments of South America . His script ( which he wrote with Eliseo Altunaga , Roberto Brodsky and Mamoun Hassan ) is spare leaving space for much of the story to be told by observing the interaction of his two main characters with their associates . The result is a deeply moving film , an opportunity to observe the tenuous times of a period most of us barely understand . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Rendition : an unfortunate new word to add to our sense of shame	RENDITION accomplishes a lot in presenting a story that is tough to watch , tougher to believe , and for all that is a tremendously involving and electrifying movie . It is definitely a message film but that message is delivered by a smart script , a compassionate director , and a dream cast . But first the word rendition : according to the dictionary , " In law , rendition is a " surrender " or " handing over " of persons or property , particularly from one jurisdiction to another . For criminal suspects , extradition is the most common type of rendition . Rendition can also be seen as the act of handing over , after the request for extradition has taken place . " For many this may not be news , but for those who are not privy to our Intelligence games , the concept is a terrifying one . For this film Kelley Sane has provided director Gavin Hood with a script that examines the horrors of rendition and in doing so the two have created a story we simply cannot ignore . Anwar El-Ibrahimi ( Omar Metwally ) is an Egyptian-born American working in South Africa as the film begins : his very pregnant wife Isabella ( Reese Witherspoon ) awaits his return home but when Anwar doesn't appear at the airport , the enigma begins . Anwar has been taken prisoner in Egypt where he is tortured and interrogated for information by the cruel Abasi Fawal ( Yigal Naor ) while a reluctant CIA investigator Douglas Freeman ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) stands by , the two attempting to extract secrets to be provided to the USA : behind the scenes in Washington DC the extraordinary rendition is piloted by Intelligence expert Corrine Whitman ( Meryl Streep ) . Isabella attempts to uncover the truth of her missing husband's whereabouts and involves an old friend ( Peter Sarsgaard ) to help her . Nothing goes well , not in the US or in Egypt , where the interrogator Abasi discovers the evil that is brewing within his own family . It is Isabella's persistence , Anwar's endurance , and the ultimate heroism of Douglas Freeman that allow the resolution to the nightmare . The cast is uniformly strong , the grim realities of the torture chambers are almost unbearable to watch , and the in-our-face discovery of how our Intelligence system works ( especially since 911 ) is terrifying . Added to the DVD is a short film about two men who talk about personal experiences with ' rendition ' . It is a kick in the gut and demands action from the viewer to become an activist in preventing the continuation of these tactics . Grady Harp
Love : Four Divertimenti	Gaël Morel co-wrote ( with Catherine Corsini ) and directed this very French exploration of the manifestations of love in a style that feels more like eavesdropping on private encounters than on a linear drama . The plot is actually tightly woven around each of the four characters , at the same time giving the effect of four characters ' viewpoints on love . Samir ( Mezziane Bardadi ) is a French Arab from Algeria who opens the film in a tender frolic with his ' blood brother ' and quickly witnesses the accidental death of the man he loves . He travels to a small town in France , lonely , needy , feeling like an outsider ( remember the history of the French Algerian conflict ) and encounters a young novelist Quentin ( Pascal Cervo ) celebrating the publication of his first novel with his best friend Jimmy ( Stéphane Rideau ) and his girlfriend Julie ( Élodie Bouchez ) in a dance bar . Samir and Quentin make eye contact and soon a brief assignation outside the club leads to a kiss that the vulnerable Samir views as a sign of love but that Quentin views as strange but as possible content for his next novel . Quentin loves Julie , Julie loves Quentin , but has an eye on Quentin's best friend Jimmy , a lad faithful to his friendship with Quentin to the point of fending off Julie's enamourment . But when Quentin and Samir begin spending extended periods of time together ( Samir longing for a physical relationship , Quentin refusing but intent on gathering information for his novel ) , affinities are tested . Quentin departs for Paris to write , Jimmy and Julie begin a lusty affair , and Samir feels again deserted by a lover . Samir is attacked by gay bashers and defended by Quentin who in the course of the fight sustains a head injury , an injury at first easily resolved but one that later leads to tragedy . Quentin returns from Paris to discover Julie has found love with Jimmy and while Samir's obsession with Quentin races at the new availability of Quentin as a partner , Quentin is disgusted and returns to his career as a writer in Paris and the story comes to a protracted ending with a series of sad incidents : Quentin , the core of each of the love stories remains aloof , dedicated to his growing fame as a writer and gleaning the events as fodder for his assent to literary fame . The stories are bound with threads if same - gender love , homophobia , human frailty and need . The actors are all beautiful for the eye and render tender performances . The countryside of France is exquisitely captured by cinematographer Jeanne Lapoirie and director Gaël Morel manages to weave these little stories in a conversational , simple manner that appeal to the heart and the eye . For some the film may seem rambling and disconnected and unfairly compared to ' The Wild Reeds ' , but Morel has a sensitive , gentle manner in setting a mood that allows it to flow like a stroll through the flowering woods of young passions . Recommended . Grady Harp
The Kind of Movie Making that Restores Faith in the Medium	Columbian director and writer Rodrigo García ( Things you can tell just by looking at her , multiple episodes of Six Feet Under , Carnivale , The Sopranos , Fathers and Sons , etc ) does what few writer / directors are capable of : García observes the human condition , finds the stories that such observations suggests , fleshes out these ideas into vignettes , and then weaves them into a tapestry of a film that is simply breathtaking . NINE LIVES is simply the reporting of nine women and their surrounding characters who are coping with an emotional crisis involving relationships with a parent , child , lover , husband , or sister and the manner in which each woman deals with keeping her life intact despite the trials of everyday living . Imagine walking down a street , as a flaneur , observing glimpses of a person and conversation that lasts only as long as the time you approach , pause and pass on by and you have an idea of the technique García uses . These little short stories are the stuff of life we all encounter : García pauses long enough to let them make an impact . Part of the beauty of this film is the sterling cast which includes some of our finest actors - Kathy Baker , Amy Brenneman , K Callan , Glenn Close , Stephen Dillane , Dakota Fanning , Holly Hunter , Jason Isaacs , Joe Mantegna , Ian McShane , Mary Kay Place , Aidan Quinn , Sissy Spacek , Robin Wright Penn - the list goes on . There is a sense of ensemble commitment to this film despite that only occasionally do the characters overlap . The writing is terse , understated , always saying just enough to arrest our attention before moving on , much the way life keeps passing . A very fine work , and one that reminds us that great movies from quiet stories come . Grady Harp
Clashes : Cultural , Lingual , Scientific , Emotional	DARK MATTER is a film that will polarize audiences : for those who seek understanding of the clashes between science and ' religion ' and the matrix from which tragedy grows the film will appeal , and for the audiences who demand tidy stories with happy resolutions the film will not please . Apparently ' based on true events ' , this story has many layers that invite discussion and reveals some facts about the American Academia that many would rather not know . Liu Xing ( Ye Liu ) comes from a poor family in Beijing , but rises to hopeful heights due to his exceptional scientific intelligence and is invited to a prestigious university to study with Cosmology professor Jacob Reiser ( Aidan Quinn ) , the author of the Reiser String Theory - the entire universe is tied into a compact single ball of cosmic wax . Liu Xing encounters initial success not only academically but also as a fresh young student , barely able to speak English , who is taken under the wing of the kind matron of Chinese culture , Johanna Silver ( Meryl Streep ) . Liu Xing develops his own theory that the universe is united by massive amounts of unseen Dark Matter . When the student's theory conflicts with Reiser's theory , the negative results begin to affect each of the characters : Liu Xing sees his dream of earning a PhD in Cosmology and winning the Nobel Prize for his theory destroyed by the powers of academia and as he watches his fellow Chinese students succeed , he is plagued with low self esteem as he attempts to support his family in Beijing with money earned selling cosmetics door to door . The downfall of a simple genius destroyed by the inner workings of academia leads to unimaginable tragedy . Billy Shebar's screenplay tinkers with the story's credibility with a heavy dose of sentimentality at times , but director Shi-Zheng Chen keeps the story moving by allowing the audience to witness frequent glimpses of Liu Xing's humble Beijing home life . The star of the film is the very talented Ye Liu , but Streep and Quinn carry their rather minor roles with great dignity and understatement . This is a moving story , too frequently repeated in our campuses to overlook . There is much more to this film than first viewings reveal . Grady Harp
Stranger than Fiction !	STUCK is one of those films that creeps up on you , teases you into thinking a comedy is in the making , then slowly reveals itself as what seems to be an exposé of our current manner of getting through life , of competing in the workplace , and of self absorption to the point of endangering those around us . The fact that the film is based on a true story as adapted by director Stuart Gordon and transformed into a bitingly satirical screenplay by John Strysik increases the impact of this well-crafted little low budget film . Watch it once for the gritty content of the story , then watch it again to appreciate all of the very dark ( and very pointed ! ) humor in what at first appears to be a grisly tale . Brandi Boski ( Mena Suvari ) works as a Nurse's Aid in a nursing home of senile elderly patients , giving some of the finest care for those entrusted to her talents . Brandi's compassionate work is noted by the supervisor Peterson ( Carolyn Purdy-Gordon ) who manages to trick Brandi into an even heavier work schedule by suggesting a raise in position . Excited about her possible promotion Brandi and her working partner Tanya ( Rukiya Bernard ) celebrate that evening with Brandi's boyfriend / drug supplier Rashid ( Russell Hornsby ) who gives Brandi a pill of Ecstasy and the mixture of the drug with the alcohol creates a mess of Brandi's mind . The parallel story involves one jobless Thomas Bardo ( Stephen Rea ) who lives in a tenement , is evicted because of past due rent , and becomes a street person , treated with cold ( but satirical ) mechanical responses at the Department of Unemployment . Left to sleep in the park he is befriended by another homeless person , given a shopping cart , and makes his way toward a midnight mission . Brandi cum altered thought processes drives home , hits Thomas who comes sailing through her windshield badly injured , and out of fear and distress Brandi merely takes the ' stuck ' Thomas home to park him in her garage , knowing that her boyfriend Rashid will help her . Thomas is conscious , unable to climb out of the glass of the crushed windshield and begs for help . How the stranded and injured Thomas is treated by the desperate but self-centered Brandi , by the frightened but macho Rashid , and by neighbors who fear intervention because of reporting an incident that would encourage police intervention and threaten their deportation as illegal immigrants results in an ending that shows how ' justice ' can prevail ! The cast is first rate - especially Rea , Suvari , Hornsby and Bernard . The direction is tight and maintains credible characters in incredible situations and holds the audience attention every moment . This is a fine example of how a low budget film , in the hands of pros , can be more successful that the big budget , less thoughtful movies that crowd our marquis . Grady Harp
' I Am A Camera '	Walk down any street in metropolitan areas and the omnipresence of the Big Brother camera is frightening : cell phones now capture all manner of images from friendly to horrific , cameras at stores ' entries scan customers like a police state , police have license plate detecting cameras on their vehicles , strolling youngsters and tourists have the ubiquitous camcorders recording sights and other people's privacy - the list is endless . This strangely mesmerizing film ' HYMYPOIKA ' ( Young Gods ) from Finland addresses these facts and builds a story around just how invasive and destructive the personal hand-held video camera has become . ' 1984 ' ? Yes , in many ways it is . Director Jukka-Pekka Siili has taken an idea from Jaajo Linnonmaa , passed it through screenwriter Jukka Vieno , and though Jarkko T . Laine is credited as the cinematographer , Siili records this story as though he were the one holding the intrusive camera . The technical aspects of the film - black and white into color into white noise screen into abrupt movement , odd angles , etc - are a strategically important aspect of the film's success . Taavi ( Jussi Nikkilä ) , the enigmatic 18-year-old lead , has just inherited his long-deceased wealthy parents home and estate . It is high school graduation and Taavi's birthday , and after his fiends greet him au natural and are arrested ( the policewoman Helena Pääkkönen - Laura Malmivaara - is attractive and forgiving ) , Taavi invites his friends to the mansion for a wild party . Taavi lives with a recording camera to his eye , a machine that allows his to keep interpersonal distance from everyone . Among his friends are Jere ( Reino Nordin ) who considers himself a woman's man , Markus ( Jarkko Niemi ) who appears the well-adjusted one , and chubby , pierced Sami ( Ville Kivelä ) whose sexuality is ambiguous . The party gets wild , guests sleep around , and Taavi records it all ! When Taavi's friends discover his deed , a pact is made : each of the four young men will videotape their own sexual encounter . This contest begins innocently enough for the boys , but when the girls photographed en flagrante discover the ploy , anger erupts and varying degrees of tragedy occur . As with many invasive games , this contest progresses to humiliation , rape , and worse , and finally leads to the truth about Taavi's secrets about his parents and his own personality disorder - all focused on the video camera as the source of evil . The film is daring , entertaining , frightening , cruel and dissecting all at once . While many may dismiss this as just another example of foreign film exploitational technique , there is much more to the story than meets the first encounter . Siili has uncovered truths about our current preoccupation with privacy invasion and they are loudly criticized here . This unrated movie is not a film for the squeamish , but it is a significant statement that needed to be made . Grady Harp
A Night on the Streets of Buenos Aires	Edgardo Cozarinsky is one of Argentina's most respected film makers and this elegiac nocturnal mood piece ' Ronda nocturna ' is a stunning little foray into exploring the people who work by night in a big city , that big city could be anywhere in the world . This is not a film for those who need a storyline or those who aren't willing to go with the flow of the mind of the director in mixing the real with the imagined . But for this viewer this is a mesmerizing theme and variations that magnetically draws us into one evening on the calles de Buenos Aires . Victor ( the fine twenty-three year old actor Gonzalo Heredia ) is a hustler and works the streets from dusk until dawn , plying his various wares ( drugs , his body , his camaraderie ) on one particular November evening . He is ' protected ' by a police Inspector ( Gregory Dayton ) in return for physical favors , shares turf with Carlitos ( Diego Trerotola ) who spends time in clubs with him and takes him to the ' better venues ' of his trade including an ambassador's party where Viktor steals money , catches up on old times with a hustler turned taxi driver Mario ( Rafael Ferro ) with whom cruises the streets in the taxi talking with transvestites and hookers in a series of warm exchanges and whom he beds and has a threatened experience , narrowly escapes death at the push of a strange woman , befriends a street florist , revives an old girlfriend acquaintance . . . . many things happen and nothing really happens . There is no story here except what happens to a pretty kid on the streets ; no preaching , no climaxes , no major dramatic turns are developed and we leave Viktor as dawn rises over the city and his working time is over . The cinematography by Javier Miquelez is brilliant as is the subtle tango-influenced musical score by Carlos Franzetti . Gonzalo Heredia carries this film with sophisticated acting skills and despite the fact that we are never sure just how much of what we are seeing is real , imagined , drug induced , or remembered , we still care deeply for this quiet little charmer of a lad . His moments with the street florist are the stuff of film magic . Edgardo Cozarinsky knows his craft and seeing ' Night Watch ' makes us want to explore all of his films . Highly recommended for lovers of art films . Grady Harp
The Oblivion of Suburbia : A Dark Comedy	Few films have polarized audiences ( fortunate enough to have experienced this little film ) as much as THE CHUMSCRUBBER , a film that is unique in its brave depiction of American suburbia , a place where ' things ' have absorbed our attention and ' people ' have all but melted into the woodwork . It is a dark comedy , and even while it is very funny in parts , the humor is always attached to black vignettes that are so truthful they can become terrifying . Taking place in some manufactured instant suburb in sunny California , the story ( by director and co-writer Arie Posin with Zak Stanford ) is framed around one Dean Stiffle ( Jamie Bell - think of the meaning of the word stifle ! ) , a lad who seemingly is alone among the hollow shells of high school kids who live through drugs / pills to alter their perception of a boring meaningless world . The source of their pills is Troy Johnson ( Josh Janowicz ) who in the first frames of the movie is discovered by Dean after Troy has hanged himself in suicide . Dean , though terrified at the horror of what he discovers , decides to not tell anyone ' because who would care anyway ' . Life just goes on among the parents of the teenagers , not allowing anything to disturb their shallow lives : Troy's mother ( Glenn Close ) appears oblivious to her loss ; Dean's mother ( Allison Janney ) is more concerned with cooking and is clueless as to interpersonal relationships with anyone including her author / psychologist husband William Fichtner whose world begins and ends in his latest book ; Terry Bratley ( Rita Wilson ) whose time is consumed by her incipient wedding to the mayor ( Ralph Fiennes ) who has delusional behavior while fending off maladaptive behavior by her recently divorced spouse Officer Lou ( John Heard ) ; Mrs . Falls ( Carrie-Anne Moss ) who seduces even teenagers and any other man who comes into her gaze . These shells of parents have no clue or communication with their aimless kids , but the kids when discovering the source of their pills is dead , decide to go after psycho Dean to get the stash . In doing so they kidnap Charley whom they think is Dean's brother to convince Dean to raid Troy's stash . The manner in which all of this plays out is a veritable horror story of the amoral mindset of teenagers coping alone in the world with parents who elect to remain oblivious to their plights . There are some lapses in continuity with the story , some editing problems , and some weak moments , but the overall message is a very dark , very real microscopic examination of our society . Jamie Bell is particularly outstanding as Dean , the only character who appears to have a remnant of conscience and soul . But the cameos by the wide range of stars are splendid . James Horner has once again managed to gel the story with his musical score , ending the credits with a rendition of the Graham Nash song " Our House ' . As said before , the audience is polarized between love and hate / tolerance for this film . This viewer happened to love it . Recommended for all people concerned with our youth today - and their inadequate parents . Grady Harp
' Angst and Alienation in America '	LAND OF PLENTY is nowhere near as powerful a title for this brilliant Wim Wenders film as the original working title , ANGST AND ALIENATION IN America . This is another Wim Wenders wonder of film-making , a quiet little powerhouse of a movie that should be required viewing for all of us . Wenders wrote this moving piece with assistance from Scott Derrickson and Michael Meredith and directs a sterling cast in an exploration of the American psyche post , and few writer / directors could have keener insight into the state of mind of a country at odds with itself and the rest of the world . Lana ( Michelle Williams ) is flying back to the US after a two-year stay on the West Bank . She is the daughter of missionaries , having lived her life in Africa and other missionary fields and she is flying home after her mother's death to deliver a letter to her uncle Paul ( John Diehl ) , a damaged Vietnam vet who has cut himself off from his family and the rest of life and in response to , his mind being obsessed with tracking Sleeper Cells to destroy terrorists in his own homemade surveillance van . Upon arriving in Los Angeles , Lana is met by Henry ( Wendell Pierce ) who is a pastor who runs a mission for the homeless of Los Angeles and provides Lana with a bleak room and a job in the kitchen of the mission . Lana is full of praise for God for all things , the optimistic evangelical girl who fails to recognize evil . One member of the mission bunkhouse is a Pakistani Hassan ( Shaun Toub ) whose garments and fixation on boxes of Borax alerts Paul to his possible involvement as a terrorist . Lana contacts Paul , desires to connect with him , but Paul is aloof , obsessed with his ' mission ' to ferret out terrorists . When Hassan is the victim of a drive-by shooting Lana is devastated at the loss of a human being while Paul is convinced Hassan was hit by a larger organization . Paul with his colleague Jimmy ( Richard Edson ) discover Hassan has a brother who lives in Trona ( outside of Death Valley ) . Together Lana and Paul transport the corpse of Hassan to his brother Youssef ( Bernard White ) who lives in a hut in Trona : Lana is committed to doing the right thing , Paul sees an entry into more evidence for evil to quash . While Lana is warmly entertained by Youssef , Paul investigates the town and finds that the Borax boxes of Hassan's business were innocent means of washing carpets imported from Pakistan . The coming together of Youssef , Lana , and Paul finally achieves meaning when Paul reads the letter from his sister , Lana's mother , who somehow manages to erase all lines of prejudice , bigotry , religious differences , misunderstanding - finally giving breathing room to the damaged souls of the brotherhood of man the three represent . Wenders manages to bathe his story in the light of reality yet maintain an unprejudiced stance in moving his characters through their paths of revelation . The camera wanders a bit , the music blends perhaps too heavily , and the pieces of the puzzle don't always fit together - much like life doesn't always fall into place the way we expect . But there is much to learn from Wenders ' wisdom and with the aid of perfect performances from Michelle Williams , John Diehl , and Wendell Pierce he has created an indelible work . A fine film for us all to ponder . Grady Harp
The Path from Glory to Self Martyrdom	BEFORE THE FALL ( ' NAPOLA ' ) is a brilliantly made film that addresses the blind hopes of youth in becoming a success as a man , a factor that allowed and allows dictators to entice young men into the realm of warriors under the guise of applauded bravery and the golden promise of achieving glory for a great cause . This story just happens to be about Hitler and his 40 Napola ( training camps for the elite German youths in 1942 ) and the young boys and men who trained in these National Political societies . It could be found in many places and in many times . . . Friedrich Weimer ( handsome and talented young Max Riemelt ) comes from the lower class in Germany ( his father is aiming him toward factory work ) and is a fine young boxer . His talents are noted by some representatives from the Nazi party and he is asked to report for enrollment in a Napola , an important means of education and training that Friedrich sees as being his way to become something special , someone important . His father is anti-Nazi and refuses to let Friedrich go , but Friedrich is determined and runs into the night to join the Napola . Once there he is admitted , groomed as a boxer for the Napola , and introduced to the Hitler's youth movement . His fellow classmates vary from the very wealthy to other fine Arian lads . They are trained , observed , and brainwashed as to the glory of the Thousand Year Reich . Problems begin to arise when Friedrich gets to know his fellow classmates : Siegfried ( Martin Goeres ) is a bed wetter and is humiliated publicly for his problem ; Albrecht ( Tom Schilling ) is a poet and writer whose father is one of the governors of the Napola and Albrecht is anti-war ; other lads seem on the surface to be obedient yet most have hidden reservations about what they are doing . Being 1942 some changes are occurring in the Nazi dream and the Senior class is sent out on a mission to fight the enemy . And one night Friedrich's class is called out of bed and sent into the woods to find Russian soldiers who are ' threatening ' their security . The boys open fire on the Russians only to find that they have killed a number of unarmed Russian boys . This profoundly disturbs them all , but Albrecht in particular . Friedrich continues to observe the manner in which he and the other boys are used and slowly his best friends find ways to martyr themselves and ultimately Friedrich does the same in his only way - by changing the way he approaches the Napola expectations of his boxing . Max Riemelt as Friedrich is outstanding : not only does he have the solid extraordinary good looks but he also can act , satisfying every nuance of this challenging role . The remainder of the cast - both young boys and the adults running the Napola - are superb . The cinematography is subtly beautiful , ranging from the tough interiors inside to the vistas of a Germany before it was destroyed by the not too distant fall . Director Dennis Gansel , who co-wrote the script with Maggie Peren , is a young man ( the featurette with the DVD has an enlightening conversation between Gansel and Riemelt ) knows exactly how to capture both the wide-eyed innocence of youth and the slowly crumbled ideals of young men . This is an outstanding film to see and experience . Its lessons are terrifying and intense . In German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
An Inside View of Political Detainees	One of the aspects of this excellent film from Argentina is the disturbing fact that it is based on actual events . Director Israel Adrián Caetano ( with Esteban Student and Julian Loyola ) created the screenplay from the main character's memoir - ' Pase libre ' by Claudio Tamburrini - and in doing so bring a sense of immediacy and unfiltered truth to this tale of the 1977 military dictatorship in Argentina during the time of the ' Desaparecidos ' or terminal evacuation / elimination of dissidents to the regime . CHRONICLE OF AN ESCAPE ( Crónica de una fuga ) relates the capture of soccer goalie Claudio Tamburrini ( Rodrigo de la Serna , remembered for his magnetic portrayal of Alberto in ' The Motorcycle Diaries ' ) during a soccer game in 1977 when he was abducted , blindfolded , and taken to a house of detention as a suspected revolutionary . Claudio is beaten , interrogated , starved , and forced to live nude , blindfolded and in handcuffs chained to his palette along with other detainees - Guillermo Fernández ( Nazareno Casero ) , El Gallego ( Lautaro Delgado ) , El Vasco ( Matías Marmorato ) and El Tano ( Martín Urruty ) . Each of the detainees is repeatedly tortured and deprived of the ' necessities ' of living until after four months the group decides to escape . The tension of their ingenious escape provides the film with a tense and riveting closure , and at the end of the film the destinies of each of the detainees is revealed . Though the world knows some of the details of the military junta in Argentina that lasted from 1976 to 1985 , observing the calamity in the form of real individuals who suffered pleads the case for understanding the atrocities better than simply reading media accounts . The manner in which Caetano directs his superb cast is enhanced by the extraordinary cinematography of Julián Apezteguía and the moody and creatively subtle musical score by Iván Wyszogrod . The cast is uniformly excellent : though the men who play the evil torturers have not been named in this review they are all very strong actors . This is a tough movie to watch and the audience should be aware that the prisoners appear in the nude throughout the film ( if that is a problem for some viewers ) . In Spanish with English subtitles . Very strongly recommended , especially in this time when the concept of ' detainees ' is so very much in the public eye once again ! Grady Harp
A Big Bravo ! for this California Transplant from Argentina !	As one of the many foreign film devotees who rank writer Fabián Bielinsky's 2000 film NUEVE REINAS from Argentina as one of the best caper films ever , I was completely satisfied with the ' American made version ' CRIMINAL . Bielinsky co-wrote this screenplay with director Gregory Jacobs and the result is a terse , witty , fascinating , intelligent film that deserves 5 stars in every category . Transposing the story ( which takes place in one day ) to Los Angeles opens up even more avenues of social comment than the original . The use of the various areas of LA that span from the wealth of Beverly Hills to the grandeur of the downtown Biltmore Hotel to the scruffy East LA neighborhoods and other underbellies of Sun City truly match the flow of the story . Smarmy Richard Gaddis ( John C . Reilly ) is a small time crook who has experienced every aspect of con games . He dresses like a businessman , drives a Mercedes , and believes that if you're going to con the wealth out of money ( which he does without conscience ) , you must look professional . He observes Rodrigo ( Diego Luna ) in a cafe doing some very minor con games and when Rodrigo is apparently ' caught ' , Richard acts the part of a vice officer and saves Rodrigo from being arrested . Here begins their partnership : Richard needs a sideman to assist in an important grifter scheme involving selling a valuable money bill ( instead of the stamps with nine queens of the original ) ; Rodrigo ( who Richard re-names Brian to Anglicize him so he won't appear a Cholo ) needs big money to pay off his father's gambling debt . Through a series of introductory can games they learn to ' trust ' each other and the big game begins . The fast and furious process of the big grift flows with many incidents that are clever , convincingly intriguing , and introduces many characters in its path , each of whom plays a more major role than anyone would expect . . . Maggie Gylenhaal as Richard's sister Valerie ( concierge at the Biltmore ) is pulled in unwillingly only after she forces a ' truth session ' involving Richard's cheating on their inheritance in front of their brother Michael ( Jonathan Tucker ) , the original forger of the bill Ochoa ( Zitto Kazaan ) , the hit who buys the bill Hannigan ( Peter Muller ) , and all of the apparent bit people in the scheme are superb . Throughout the story Rodrigo / Brian is portrayed as warm , lovable smalltime beginner , though always ready with a clever intervention , and Richard is the know-it-all conflicted ' boss ' . How this relationship mutates is just plain fine writing and acting and the ending of the film is a terrific surprise even to those who know NUEVE REINAS well ! Reilly and Luna are perfect choices for these multifaceted roles . Highly Recommended !
A Film The Will Gain Respect In Time	W . is a film not many people want to see or even discuss because of the subject matter - the career of the country's most unpopular President , the debacle of the Iraq War , and the decimated economy . There is a certain ' guilt ' that comes with criticizing the leader of the country , from both conservatives and liberals : it is not polite to condemn our elected leaders . But now with the Bush legacy daily being pushed into the past ( though the after burn of that embarrassing 8 years will never completely go away ) , it is time for biographers to examine why the Bush version of Presidential autonomy occurred . Oliver Stone has examined Nixon and JFK on film and now with a terse script Stanley Weiser he summarizes the life of George W . Bush , from his early bad boy drinking years and inability to hold a job through his family collisions ( brother Jeb being the obvious successor to George Bush , Sr . ) , to his bull headed drive toward absolute power to finish the war his father didn't finish - securing the Middle East oil fields to be held by American control by fabricating the infamous Axis of Evil and Weapons of Mass Destruction as drivers to light the preemptive blundering war against Saddam Hussein and Iraq . In lesser hands this film might have become too prejudiced a view of a president . But Oliver Stone's technique of telling a story makes this film work : we see the rise and fall of a pitifully misguided man whose judgment and lack of intelligence brought us to where we are today . Much of the success of the film is due to the casting of Josh Brolin as W . , James Cromwell as Bush Sr . , Ellen Burstyn as Barbara Bush , Richard Dreyfuss as the terrifying Dick Cheney , Jeffrey Wright as Colin Powell , Elizabeth Banks as Laura Bush , Scott Glenn as Donald Rumsfeld , Toby Jones as Karl Rove , Bruce McGill as George Tenet , and a puzzling performance by Thandie Newton as Condoleeza Rice . Their characterizations are remarkable and give an insider's view as to the tehniques used to change a democracy into an oligarchy . Many people may find this film either too biased and cruel ( conservatives ) or too watered down ( liberals ) , but at least Oliver Stone has once again placed a key figure on the screen for us all to ponder . In time this film will be better accepted , once the smoke clears from the past 8 eight years . Grady Harp
Needs and How to Take Care of Them	Sur mes lèvres or READ MY LIPS is fine little thriller that also examines the lives of ' outsiders ' , people who live in the periphery of our vision who struggle with the need to ' fit in ' . Director Jacques Audiard with and co-writer Tonino Benacquista have created a tense , tight , completely entertaining little thriller that makes some significant statements about out of the norm individuals and their plights . Carla ( Emmanuelle Devos ) is a plain Jane , mostly deaf , thirty something unnoticed secretary for a company whose life is one of social and sexual isolation and whose view of the future is rather bleak . Enter Paul ( Vincent Cassel ) a recent released ex-con parolee who responds to an ad to be Carla's assistant . There is a mutual physical repulsion at first meeting : Carla had hoped for a well-groomed , genteel man who might fulfill her fantasies and Paul is a coarse , unkempt sleazy guy who is not impressed with being a clerk . Their concepts change rather quickly when Paul salvages Carla's job by filling her request to steal a letter that would cost her her job and Paul discovers Carla's lip reading ability which he sees as a way to spy on the criminals from his past who threaten his life for money owed . So this odd couple of a team join forces and together enter a dangerous suspense filled ploy to gain Paul's safety and freedom . The relationship is full of twists and edge of the seat suspense with each of these unlikely characters fulfilling roles in their lives that fill the chinks in their walls of isolation in surprising ways . Devos and Cassel deliver bravura performances and the remainder of the cast is uniformly strong . Once again Alexandre Desplat has produced a musical score that enhances the tension and cinematographer Mathieu Vadepied finds all the right lighting and angles to suggest the worlds of isolation of the characters as well as the Hitchcockian sense of suspense . Director Audiard wisely manipulates a factor that is at once sensitive and transformative for the story : he shows us the difference between ' hearing ' the world with and without hearing aids and in doing so makes some powerful social comments . This is a fine film that remains in the ranks of the best of the French film noir genre . Recommended . Grady Harp
A Visually Breathtaking , Emotionally Staggering Film of Great Importance	3 NEEDLES as written and directed by Thom Fitzgerald ( The Hanging Garden , The Wild Dogs , Blood Moon , Beefcake ) is a powerful statement about the insidious spread of AIDS throughout the world , taking us to places we the viewers would rarely visit from the news media emphasis on the disease . The film is three stories in three countries told in tandem not unlike the technique so successfully used in BABEL , CRASH , and TRAFFIC . Employing cinematography of enormous talent and a cast of terrific actors , Fitzgerald manages to share his stories with such sensitivity that every viewer will feel involved in the tragedy that is rotting away our globe . The film opens with a ceremony in Africa ( supposedly South Africa ) where young boys undergo ritualistic circumcision , learn the fighting tricks of manhood , and move into society as Men . This single portion of the film is intensely beautiful in its non-voyeuristic observation of an ages old ritual , so beautiful to watch that it calls for Pause / Replay ! From Africa we go to rural China where Jin Ping ( Lucy Liu , speaking Mandarin only ) is the very pregnant force who runs an underground blood bank which while serving the donors with some cash also contaminates the population with HIV virus ( we discover that Jin Ling is HIV positive , carrying a baby at risk , and supporting her HIV husband ) . The trials she encounters in her shady business are nothing to the moment of personal anguish when she delivers her baby without assistance in a cornfield . Moving to Canada we meet Denys ( Shawn Ashmore ) , a porn star who is HIV positive but steals blood from his ill father for his frequent ' tests ' required by the porn director to hide his positive status in order to continue making porn movies to support his family . His mother Olive ( Stockard Channing ) discovers his status , hears about AIDS patients ' ability to cash in on life insurance early , and infects herself so that she can take advantage of the early insurance cash to provide a life of comfort in the small time they both now have for herself and her now fatherless son . And we return to South Africa where three nuns - Sister Clara ( Chloë Sevigny ) , Sister Hilde Francis ( Olympia Dukakis ) and Sister Mary John ( Sandra Oh ) - set up a clinic to treat the villagers , finding only that acts of tremendous self-sacrifice can stave off the spread of the gore of AIDS . The Men we have watched in the beginning of the film walk into the life that faces a world crippled by HIV and the contrast is powerful . 3 NEEDLES ' cinematographer Tom Harting deserves awards for the sheer magnificence of his images he captures on film , not only the majestic vistas of Africa and China but also the intimate moments such as Jin Ping's birthing . The musical score by Christophe Beck and Trevor Morris manages to find the atmosphere of each of the three stations of the cross Fitzgerald examines . The acting cast , both the gifted well-known actors as well as the smaller roles by unknowns in each location , is magnificent . If the film has a flaw it is in the unfortunate arena of avoiding preaching : watching and hearing the events is so very powerful that words of summation feel superficial and even insulting . But that is a small flaw in a film of wonder . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Told the Way Myths Can Be Remembered	BEOWULF & GRENDEL as the title of this wonderfully atmospheric retelling of the myth is well selected : the usual name of the myth is simply BEOWULF but Sturla Gunnarsson , with the aid of screenwriter Andrew Rai Berzins , appreciates the importance of the ' creature ' Grendel and gives him equal billing . Not all audiences will agree with the decision to make Grendel ' humanized ' ( he was actually a giant troll monster in the original tale ) , but the manner in which this story is related makes this concept of Grendel as a being with memory and feelings more pertinent to contemporary audiences . King Hrothgar ( Stellan Skarsgård ) once killed a troll whose son Grendel ( Ingvar Eggert Sigurðsson ) survived and has been vengefully killing the Danish court of the king to the point that the king has lost all power . A monk , Brendan the Celt ( Eddie Marsan ) , comes to Denmark ( the time is 400 AD ) to spread Christianity , baptize the population and pray for the protection of the people form Grendel . King Hrothgar calls upon a Hero in the form of Beowulf ( Gerard Butler ) who travels the seas , only to be shipwrecked and come ashore with his few men to aid the decimated kingdom and king . Once in Denmark , Beowulf strategizes his attack on Grendel , the mighty son of the original troll , survives the many attacks that leave many dead and torn limb from limb , and finally is responsible for ridding the land of Grendel . Along the way Beowulf is aided by a witch Selma ( Sarah Polley ) who defends Grendel's philosophy : we later discover that she bore a child by Grendel . After many chases and conflicts Beowulf is responsible for Grendel's death and the kingdom rejoices while Beowulf is conflicted by the fact that he has killed a troll with a heart and soul . There are many metaphors between Christianity and mythology that are beautifully explored by the story as told here . Filmed in Iceland and Canada the mythic mood of the tale is well served by cinematographer Jan Kiesser and the musical score by Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson . One is reminded of the paintings of Odd Nerdrum . The stormy darkness of the entire film fits the story well and the actors , especially the always superb and charismatic Gerard Butler , make their characters as credible as myth allows . The many accents of the actors make understanding the lines a problem and even though the dialogue is in English , subtitles would have greatly helped understanding the storyline as it unfolds . Many people will object to the character of Grendel as extracted here from the original myth , but for this observer the way in which we are allowed to understand the motivation of this rather pitiful beast makes the story far more poignant . The added features on the DVD include Gerard Butler discussing his role and his decision to accept the Beowulf persona . And equally as interesting is a behind the scenes track that demonstrates the difficulties in filming a story in rugged terrain . In all this is a visually stunning , emotionally moving film well worth the attention of the audience . Grady Harp
A Twist on the Theme of a Love Affair	L'amour Dangereux is a beautifully filmed and very well written ( François Lemaire , Steve Suissa and Samantha Mazeras ) story that finds more information about the early stages of love in the young set than a score of other films . Director Steve Suissa knows exactly how to balance the motivations and the responses of his cast , making a potentially predictable story one that holds our attention - and hearts - from the first frame to the last . Simon ( Nicholas Cazale , a formidable screen presence ) is a lower class laborer , kind , caring , industrious , and ' in love ' with a girl Noemie ( Jennifer Decker ) he has observed since childhood , a girl whose parents are property ( shop ) owners and thus in another class . Always ready to increase his work to make a better salary , Simon accepts a questionable ' job ' for 500 Euros for just 2 hours work . Needless to say the job is a robbery and Simon , in the course of the failed robbery , assaults a policeman who is attacking his friend , wounding the policeman badly . The others in the robbery are caught but Simon escapes . He visits the café where Noemie works , asks her if she has car keys and Noemie not only gives Simon her father's car and keys , but also asks Simon to accompany him on his escape . The remainder of the film is a road trip with Simon ( who is age 18 ) and Noemie ( age 16 ) running from the police . They find joys in nature , live in a small shack on the beach , and fall in love in one of the most sensitively written sequences on film . Simon is hesitant to say he loves Noemie because he feels responsible for her : Noemie begins to feel she must return home but will stay if Simon will only say he loves her . The cops led by the wily inspector Queyrolles ( Bruno Wolkowitch ) close in and Simon is captured and the manner in which the film ends is one that reinforces the importance of truth in life and relationships . What could have been a Hollywoodesque ending complete with suicide leap is instead a tender working through of personal growth . Nicolas Cazale is one of the more sensitive actors in French film today ( ' Three Dancing Slaves ' , multiple TV roles ) and this film should make him a star . The entire cast - including Marc Samuel as Simon's misunderstood father - is splendid . The cinematography is magnificent and the tender musical scoring mixing Schubert , Chopin and modern songs fit the mood perfectly . This is an amazing little film that bravely takes on issues of the Romeo and Juliet manner and remains entirely unique . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Distances and Proximities : Fathers and Sons	Based on an autobiographical memoir by Blake Morrison WHEN DID YOU LAST SEE YOUR FATHER ? is a finely wrought exploration into the delicate issues that both separate and bind fathers and sons . It is difficult for viewers whose fathers are gone not to relate to the profound tenderness and at times difficult reminiscences of their own relationships that remain as both warm and haunting dreams . David Nicholls ' adaptation of Morrison's book stresses the character development of both father and son ( and the rest of this British family ) allowing us to understand the dilemma that faces the main character as he is asked the question that forms the title of this film . Blake Morrison ( Colin Firth ) is happily married to Kathy ( Gina McKee ) and is a successful writer / poet who is preparing to receive an award for his contributions to literature . Present at his ceremony is his father Dr . Arthur Morrison ( Jim Broadbent ) who is a unique egomaniac whose personality traits affect everyone around him - both positively and negatively . After Blake's acceptance speech his father cannot even manage to say ' well done ' , instead furthers his comments about Blake's silly decision not to go into medicine and strive instead for the poor life of a writer . A medical emergency tosses Arthur into the hospital , he is diagnosed with terminal cancer : the remainder of the film is a series of vignettes of Blake at his father's bedside accompanied by his mother Kim ( Juliet Stephenson ) coupled with flashbacks to Blake's childhood ( Matthew Beard plays Blake as a teenager ) memories that contain moments of confusing father / son incidents as well as Blake's long standing loathing of his fathers affairs with other women such as ' Aunt Beaty ' ( Sarah Lancashire ) and others . As Arthur falls more deeply toward dying , Blake attempts to confront his father with his lifelong perceptions and grievances and the manner in which Blake comes to grips with his feelings for his father completes this film . Director Anand Tucker orchestrates this story beautifully , blending the gorgeous English countryside with just the right timing between momentary flashbacks and flash forwards to make this film flow and glow with nostalgia . The musical score by Barrington Pheloung wisely incorporates a lovely rendition of Bellini's ' Casta diva ' from ' Norma ' , Bach's G Minor Piano Concerto , and a Schubert trio , which add a timeless dimension to the mood of the film . Jim Broadbent brings off this challenging role with great artistry , as does Colin Firth with his role as Blake . But then the entire cast is well selected from some of England's finest actors . This is an emotional film , a film that will touch men especially , but will also bring resonance with women . Grady Harp
The Sudden Fires of Adolescence that Create Maturity	COME TE NUSSUNO MAI translates from Italian to " like you anyone ever " or one's first experiences in life are unique solely to you , never having been experienced by anyone in history . BUT FOREVER IN MY MIND is simply a quote lifted from this film about the agonies and ecstasies of adolescence and to fully appreciate the story from the adolescent aspect , the Italian title is far more appropriate . As written by brothers Gabriele and Silvio Muccino ( also Gabriele directs and Silvio stars ) this radiant little film covers a day in the lives of Italian highschool kids caught up in a youthful rebellion against their school's policies while at the same time sorting out the nascent changes in their burgeoning sexuality . The boys languish over their expected , anxiously awaited first physical encounter while the girls ( at times on split screen just to make the comparison more strongly ) relate their feelings about first time encounters with the boys . The two stories run parallel : student riots involve the police and of course eventually their parents , the two sources of authority the kids naturally challenge , and the taste of honey one of the boys achieves which becomes a gossiped , bloated misdirected moment of braggadocio that eventually leads to the serendipitous beautifully innocent discovery of teenage love . The young boys include Silvio ( Silvio Muccino ) and his talkative confident Ponzi ( Giuseppe Sanfelice ) , the one sexually active lad Martino ( Simone Pagani ) while the girls include the experienced Valentina ( Giulia Carmignani ) partner of Martino , and Claudia ( Giulia Steigerwalt ) , Silvio's longtime friend who dreams of a relationship beyond friendship . The remainder of the cast ( especially Enrico Silvestrin and Giulia Ciccone who are splendid as Silvio's ' ex-hippie ' parents ) is quite strong . The parallel between the physical rebellion in the school incident and the hormonal rebellion within this collected group's bodies is a true sense of cinematic metaphor and makes for a fast-paced , humorous , touching coming of age story that is a joy to watch ! In Italian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Damages of Suppression	' La Bestia nel cuore ' ( ' The Beast in the Heart ' released in the USA as ' Don't Tell ' ) is an intense Italian film written and directed by Cristina Comencini that tackles subject matter so visceral that the telling of it requires complete concentration from the audience in order to feel the power of the impact at the end . It is a tough film to watch because of the story , but it is a superb film to watch because of the excellent cast and production crew . Sabina ( Giovanna Mezzogiorno ) is introduced to us in a cemetery where she is arranging for the interment of her dead parents : the mood for the story is subtly set . Sabina is a dubbing actress for translating films into Italian , a ' sell-out ' acting job compared to the life of her live-in boyfriend Franco ( Alessio Boni ) who is a stage actor being tempted to accept a role in a TV series which pays more money than the stage . Sabina confesses she wants to get pregnant , she does , and with her pregnancy she begins to have nightmares of shadowy childhood memories . She is afraid to discuss these with Franco , or with her best friend Emilia ( Stefania Rocca ) who is blind and has been in love with Sabina since childhood . It seems the only person with whom she can confide her secret fears is her brother Daniele ( Luigi Lo Cascio ) who has moved from Italy to Charlottesville , VA where he is a professor at the University and has a happy family life with wife Anna ( Lucy Akhurst ) and two children . Sabina flies to the US to be with her brother and in the course of their reunion the two siblings uncover the beasts in their hearts : sexual abuse from their father now departed . How this discovery alters their lives is the dénouement of the film . There are many subplots - infidelity on the part of Franco while Sabina is away , a lesbian relationship that develops between Emilia and another of Sabina's friends Maria ( Angela Finocchiaro ) - and Comencini draws subtle parallels between these twists along side the main story of incest discovery . Yet without concentration , these subplots can become distracting . The acting is on the highest level and the changing locations are shot by cinematographer Fabio Cianchetti with sensitive respect of the nuances of suggestion encased in each place . The uncredited musical score is an admixture from Robert Schumann's piano sonata to contemporary works and serves to heighten the actions and mood . In Italian with subtitles . A film well worth watching .
Choices	THE GOOD BOY ( aka SEGUNDO ASALTO and ROUND TWO ) is a superb little film from Spain , written by Imanol Uribe based on a story by director Daniel Cebrián . For some reason the film was marketed in the US as a gay themed movie , probably because of the poster / DVD jacket of star Álex González ' finely trained torso . Viewers should be alerted that this is not a film with a gay theme but instead a film that focuses on the universal theme of coming of age , this particular time in the seedy sector of South Madrid . With a cast of fine actors well directed by Cebrián this is a superbly woven tale that makes no judgments , but instead encourages the viewer to participate in viewing the struggles of a young lad who wants to make a better life for himself and his single mother . Angel ( Álex González ) devotes his time and hopes for success as a boxer under the guidance of his father-figure trainer Paco " El Tigre " ( Pepe Oliva ) , a man who is idealistic and wants Angel to win the big fights when he is physically ready , not when the fight can be ' bought ' . Money struggles at home and emotional struggles set the stage for the entrance on Vidal ( Darío Grandinetti ) , a mysterious ex-boxer who has returned to Spain from Argentina , has occult bonds with Angel's family , and introduces Angel to the underground world of crime . Angle's needs to provide for his mother and to attempt to rise in the world encourage him to participate in a bank robbery with Vidal . Once bitten by the bug of easy money Angel bonds with Vidal , brings in his best friend to join in the easy money , and marches toward what will become a tragedy . How Angel rationalizes his diversion from his passion for the boxing ring to the seductive world of Vidal's design leads to an ending of the film that is left open to the viewer's decision as to Angel's future . The final scene is one of great beauty and emotional power - boxing in the ring becomes a subtle metaphor . Boasting a strong cast of actors , this film succeeds on many levels : it is a solid story with an open ending , it is beautifully photographed by Gonzalo F . Berridi to heighten the mood of the film , and the accompanying musical score by Iván Miguélez maintains the flavor of the sparing . This is a very fine Spanish film that deserves a wide audience . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Form and Function In Film Art	MANITO is a fine little independent film that does what few of the big movies have tried : the manner of shooting an intimate family film set in the ghetto atmosphere with a hand held camera gives it the immediacy and grit of the story far better than the expensive multicamera shoots of other similar tales with big budgets . Writer / director Eric Eason succeeds in inviting us , the outsiders as audience , to witness the machinations of a family at war with itself as though we were in the hall , at the window , or behind the wall . The result is a powerful , unpretentious little film with clout . Manito ( Leo Minaya ) is the younger brother of Junior ( Frankie G ) who has succeeded in school and in social life in a way that eluded Junior . Junior is an ex-con ( we learn later how unjust that title is ) who is basically a ne'er-do-well womanizer , but still works hard to make a living for his wife and child . When Manito ( or Manny ) wins a scholarship on graduation , Junior is bound to celebrate his love for his little brother and his pride in Manny's achievements with a big party . The father of the boys is the poison that drives the potential celebration into a disaster in a manner that summarizes all that is evil in the environment in which the brothers have survived . The story ends in a tenor that leaves as many questions unanswered as it does in finalizing the tale . Franky G is the only known actor among this talented but inexperienced cast . And despite the many small roles he has had serving as eye candy ( and justly deserved ! ) for big movies , here he proves that he can indeed inhabit a role and give us a character who , despite his antisocial behavioral aspects , is a man we grow to love . The entire cast engages our attention as a verismo experience and witnessing the trials and smiles of this family sheds a warmer light on the Hispanic than most of the big movies afford . We doubtless - and hopefully - will be hearing and seeing more from Eric Eason . Grady Harp
A Bizarre Film by an Important New Cinematic Visionary	' Aprimi il cuore ' ( Open My Heart ) is a unique film , one that tells a story of incest , prostitution , and murder in a singularly obtuse family . The genius of this piece is the writer , director and actress Giada Colagrande who has at a young age ( she is not yet thirty as of this writing ) found a voice in Italian cinema that demands attention . She is a major talent ! Colagrande's 2003 film is a triumph . Two sisters live alone in an apartment : Maria ( Natalie Cristiani ) is the older and has earned their support as a prostitute since their mother's death 15 years ago , and Caterina ( Giada Colagrande ) is 17 years old , a virgin confined to the apartment by her older sister with the sole exception of dancing lessons few times a week . Caterina is home taught , reads Dante , John Donne , and the major scientists , all under the guidance of Maria . While Maria brings her clients to the apartment during the day ( Caterina must listen to the squeaking bedsprings in the bedroom she shares with Maria at night ) and at night Maria hits the streets while Caterina practices her dancing and studies at home . The odd factor is the fact the Maria and Caterina have a strong sexual relationship and when Maria finishes a day's work , Caterina bathes her and they share bed and body in a lesbian relationship . At Maria's dancing school there is a kind , older janitor Giovanni ( Claudio Botosso ) who pays attention to the plain Caterina and awakens her sexual feelings . Giovanni ' visits ' Maria at their apartment and upon his departure Caterina dresses in a negligee and dances as though before Herod ! Giovanni responds and at a later time Maria notices Caterina's inquisitiveness and invites her into the bedroom where she supervises Caterina's loss of virginity with Giovanni . The floodgate has opened and Caterina soon is hosting Giovanni in a passionate sexual relationship . When Maria discovers the ' intruder ' into their private life , she begins a series of deeds that defy sharing in a review . But it should be said that Maria's resolutions result in a return of the sister's relationship , a state that Caterina finalizes in ways learned from her tutor sister . The acting is superb with special kudos to Colagrande's dancing as well as acting . This is a minimalist script , the camera revealing more about the silences than words ever could . The sexual scenes are graphic but provide the needed impact for the story's conclusion . This may not be a film for the casual viewer , but for those who love the edgy , tough , raw films from the Indies , this is bound to become a classic . Grady Harp
Be Everything You Are	Some films make a difference : viewing them can give us a story that is memorable and leave the viewer with powerful food for thought that continues to influence thinking long after the film is over . Such is the case for PEACEFUL WARRIOR . Based on a book by Inspirational Guru Dan Millman and beautifully adapted for the screen by Kevin Bernhardt , the story combines the best in sport stories with the infusion of spiritual discovery that despite the abundance of ' Hallmark-like ' imitations , stands nobly as a tool for introducing young people to a journey toward self discovery well worth taking . Director Victor Salva had the good sense not to push the story over the top , but instead to let his actors and situations grow logically into a practical demonstration of spiritual growth . Dan Millman ( Scott Mechlowicz ) is a gymnast bent on perfecting his skills to enter the Olympic trials . He is a fine athlete but has an ego that consumes everything around him and prevents his finding a focus to be the perfect athlete he feels he can become . After a chance encounter with a mysterious Service Station attendant whom Dan calls Socrates ( Nick Nolte ) , Dan's inner struggles begin to surface as he sees and experiences troubling ' other-worldly ' responses form Socrates . He is ultimately forced to confront that he is living for pride , for accomplishment , for competition , for recognition - yet his quiet moments remain discontent . Socrates works with Dan , helping him to find his inner self and to live in the moment . Dan suffers a life-threatening motorcycle accident that appears to doom his dreams of being the finest gymnast , but Socrates helps him discover that living in the moment , giving in to the power of focus on the present , can result in overcoming the seemingly impossible obstacles . Rather than ' preach ' these concepts , the story is illustrated by physical feats of gymnastics and by meaningful encounters between Dan and Socrates , and it is this technique that brings the film above the usual ' inspirational flicks ' to become a truly compelling movie . Nick Nolte has never been better as the subdued , understated , but immensely impressive Socrates . Scott Mechlowicz thankfully underplays the character of Dan : the use of a body double to perform the incredible gymnastic turns is seamlessly achieved . The remainder of the cast includes such fine actors as Amy Smart , Agnes Bruckner , and Ashton Holmes . This is a well-made film that deserves our attention , especially now . Grady Harp
Caring for Others , Taking Care of the Self	DREAMLAND is one of those little Indie films that sneaks up on you , draws you in and leaves you feeling fulfilled . Written by Tom Willett and directed with great sensitivity to both style and message by Jason Matzner , the film boasts a truly remarkable cast in every role and the ensemble acting is some of the finest in this year's lineup . " Dreamland " is the name of a very small trailer park in New Mexico , out in the sticks , yes , but surrounded by the magnificence of majestic clouds in crystalline blue skies and a land free of industrial detritus - except for the powerlines that play such an important role in the story . In a sad trailer house live Audrey ( Agnes Bruckner ) , a poet who has given up chances for college to remain with her father Henry ( John Corbett ) , a man decimated by the death of his wife to the point that he is unable to leave the trailer even to buy the beer and cigarettes that sustain his life . Audrey also is caring for her closest friend Calista ( Kelli Garner ) , a beautiful girl who dreams of becoming Miss America but knows her life is to be shortened by the fact that she suffers from Multiple Sclerosis . Audrey writes her poetry but her life is consumed by being the caretaker for Henry and Calista . Into the trailer park moves a new ' family ' - hunky young Mookie ( Justin Long ) and his mother ex-singer / performer Mary ( Gina Gershon ) and her live-in boyfriend Herb ( Chris Mulkey ) . Audrey and Calista watch them unpack and while both girls find Mookie attractive , Audrey talks Calista into dating him . Audrey's only male contact is her ' sex-buddy ' , tacky and gawky Abraham ( Brian Klugman ) who works at the local convenience store with Audrey . Mookie and Calista begin an affair while Audrey looks on longingly , and when Calista lets Mookie know she has MS the relationship is strained : Mookie also is leaving for the university soon . Audrey confesses her feelings for Mookie and Calista flees on a motorcycle to chase the now departed Mookie . She is in an accident and is hospitalized and since she has broken her relationship with her caretaker Audrey , Henry manages to draw enough courage to leave his trailer to sit at Calista's hospital bedside - along with visits from Mookie . Calista's accident makes her even more aware of her fractured future and she releases her feelings for Mookie , reconnects with Audrey , and Audrey's father discovers her many letters of acceptance to college she has hidden to prevent abandoning her role as caretaker and convinces Audrey to flow with her dreams instead of being imprisoned in Dreamland . And the manner in which each of the characters in the film resolves the changes now facing them is the tender ending of the story . DREAMLAND is created by a very strong cast of fine actors who dwell solidly within their characters ' psyches , making this somewhat surreal story very real indeed . The setting is extraordinary in its ordinariness and the camera-work by Jonathan Sela is impeccable . This is a strong story about coming of age , about quality of love , and about being human . It is a treasure . Grady Harp
An Urgent , Controversial , Challenging Film from Argentina	Though the essence of this story goes all the way back to Greek plays , the theme of this radiant film has rarely seemed more cogent and contemporary . It is always refreshing to learn some occult historical information from a fictional movie and that is another reason to view this important film written by Alan Pauls and Fito Paez ( an accomplished and respected musician in his directorial debut ) . The fact that Paez is the husband of the brilliant actress Cecilia Roth is another indicator that the collaboration of these two artists promises , and delivers , much ! The cruelty of the dictatorships in Argentina during the 1970s ( and into the 1980s ) may not be widely known yet , so this film is revealing in its references to that period . Carmen Uranga ( Cecilia Roth ) has been living in Madrid for 20 years , following her 10-month imprisonment in Buenos Aires as a political undesirable . While in prison she endured rape , delivered a baby which was taken from her and put up for adoption , and became so psychically bruised that she has been unable to form close relationships in the interim years . She returns to Buenos Aires at the request of her family : her father ( Hector Alterio ) is dying and her younger sister Ana ( Dolores Fonzi ) , a lawyer , is trying to put their father's estate in order , and care for their mother Sofia ( Chunchuna Villafane ) The physician Alejandro Rosenberg ( Luis Ziembrowsky ) attending their father has mysterious connections to Carmen and when she arrives in this strange household she is confronted with the nightmares of the past which she has never emotionally resolved . One of Carmen's old friends Roxana ( Carola Reyes ) is grooming a young , handsome model / hustler Gustavo ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) and when Carmen confides to Roxana that she is in need of a sexual outlet while in Buenos Aires , Gustavo is the chosen one . At first summoned to Carmen's apartment with a female trick to perform audible sex acts for Carmen's hidden voyeuristic sexual gratification , Gustavo is gradually moved to the role of reading scintillating novels behind closed doors while Carmen pursues her self satisfaction in the adjacent darkened room . Eventually Gustavo ( much younger than Carmen ) becomes curious then obsessed with meeting Carmen face to face and this gradual change in their ' relationship ' tips the scales of the story of the remainder of the film . To say more would destroy the unraveling of this drama . Suffice it to say that Carmen's past while in prison surfaces in its entirety and the results alter the lives of every character in the film . The story has many more sidebars that add to the intrigue , but they are disparate and too numerous to mention . The acting by these fine artists is consistently excellent : Cecilia Roth and Gael Garcia Bernal are extraordinary together and separately . In addition to the actors mentioned above , Lito Cruz stands out as Gustavo's ' father ' , opening a whole different study of father / son , genetic / adopted issues . The cinematography by Andres Mazzon finds the center of every scene and creates beautiful visual effects . The musical score by the director Fito Paez with Gerardo Gandini is stridently piercing , adding to the tension of the story . This is not an easy film to watch , but for those who appreciated ' The Piano Teacher ' , ' The Mother ' , The Crime of Padre Amaro ' , ' Amores Perros ' and other edgy films that dare to explore taboo subjects , this is a film that informs as well as provides a strangely fine tale . In Spanish with subtitles . Grady Harp
A Magical Bon-Bon from Michel Gondry	The French have a way with films that tinker with reality , fantasy , illusions , and delusions and the result of those traits have produced some of the most exciting and avant garde films ever made . Michel Gondry has inherited the mantle from Cocteau , Resnais , etc and runs with it in this charming little diversion of a film THE SCIENCE OF SLEEP . Gondry is primarily a visual artist and tells his stories in a visual manner , but that is not to say his stories are superficial or trivial : he has a preoccupation with the thin line between reality and non-reality , between dream and diurnal creativity , and it is this space that occupies his mind , his pen , his camera , and his mission in this little tale . Stéphane Miroux ( the enormously gifted , dedicated and hunky Gael García Bernal ) is a true ' artist ' , a young man whose father is Mexican and whose mother is French , and he has entered Paris to begin a job his mother Christine ( Miou-Miou ) assures him is creative : it actually is a boring , restricting graphic design outfit ( though populated by some zany confrères including Guy played beautifully by Alain Chabat who allows to run with his idea of publishing a calendar whose months are pictured by world disasters ! ) that at first defeats Stéphane's artistic integrity . Stéphane dreams and in his dream life he is a TV host who can make the most impossible things happen . His work frustrations push him further into his dream world and he finds it more real than the mundane life of daytime . He lives across the hall from an equally delicate artistic mind named Stéphanie ( the always fine and adroit Charlotte Gainsbourg ) who is caught up in her own dream world of making little boats of paper and water of cellophane and clouds of cotton . The two begin a touch and run relationship that gradually develops into a mutual appreciation for each other's idiosyncrasies - in the best of all possible ways . Gondry peppers his script with make-believe constructions , testy conversations , and some very funny and naughty observations that he tosses off with aplomb . Gael García Bernal infuses this strange role with a facile use of three languages ( English , French and Spanish ) and with a tender sense of comic timing and sensual magnetism that makes him irresistible . He carries the fantasy on his capable shoulders allowing us to love his bizarrely complex character at every quirky turn . He is an actor who takes more risks than most and is destined to be one of our more important actors as he continues to gain attention . For those who need sharp margins of linearity and borders between reality and fantasy , this film may confuse and frustrate . But for viewers who love ' taking rides through dream fantasies on felt horses ' this film is sure to please . Grady Harp
Maupin's Novel Depended on Mind Mysteries : The Camera Somehow Interferes	Armistead Maupin's novel THE NIGHT LISTENER is a terrifyingly disturbing examination of a disintegrating mind and the manner in which such a mind deals with needs and reality . It is a stunning work , one in which the reader is never quite sure where reality stops and delusions start . Though Maupin co-wrote the screenplay adaptation with Terry Anderson and Director Patrick Stettner , some of the inherent magic of the story is lost in translation when the camera makes the novel visual . Gabriel No one ( Robin Williams in a fine , understated serious performance ) , a writer who reads the ' fiction of his life ' on a late night talk show , is having a writer's block , due in part to his devastation of losing his AIDS ridden but stabilized lover Jess ( Bobby Cannavale ) , having nursed him for years but now feeling discarded so that Jess can feel life again . A literary agent Ashe ( Joe Morton ) asks Gabriel to read a galley of a book written by a 14 year old boy Pete Logand ( ' Rory Culkin ' ) who is describing his years of sexual abuse as a child and his current coping with AIDS in Wisconsin and is under the faster care of a social worker Donna ( Toni Collette , once again proving there is no role she can't master ! ) . Gabriel reads the book galley , and is fascinated by a story about a life that makes his own situation seem minor . He receives a call from Pete and subsequent calls from Donna and when he shares the story and events with Jess he is warned of a possible fraud . Does Pete really exist ? It seems Gabriel needs to discover the truth and heads to Wisconsin where he meets the blind Donna but is unable to get in to see Pete . Where the story goes form there is important to leave unsaid , as the mystery must be kept intact for the individual viewer . Each of the cast turns in credible performances , not an easy feat when the line between illusion / delusion / reality is so tenuous . One character has been added - Anna ( the always superb Sandra Oh ) - and it is her analysis of the facts that holds much of the storyline together . The mood of the piece is perfectly captured by cinematographer Lisa Rinzler and music writer Peter Nashel . But credit director Patrick Stettner for pulling performances form Williams , Collette , Cannavale and Oh that represent some of their finest work on film . Grady Harp
Time Heals All Things	AUTUMN HEARTS : A NEW BEGINNING is another one of those independent films that lacks an audience until the DVD is released . Granted it is not based on subject matter that titillates the big movie house throngs , but it is a warmly tender film about the emotional effects of historical traumas and how each of our histories molds our lives . It is a superb work on every level . Director Paolo Barzman brings to life the novel ' Emotional Arithmetic ' by Matt Cohen ( as adapted for the screen by Jefferson Lewis ) with a sterling cast of consummate actors . The impact is lasting . Melanie Winters ( Susan Sarandon ) lives on a picturesque farm in Canada with her retired university professor husband David ( Christopher Plummer ) and their grown son Benjamin ( Roy Dupuis ) , an unexplained single father of his own son Timmy ( Dakota Goyo ) and caregiver for his physically ailing father and mentally fragile mother . Melanie lives in the past : as a child in 1942 she was interned in Drancy , an internment camp outside of Paris where she bonded with a young man Jakob Bronski and an Irish lad Christopher - taking on the responsibility of maintaining the written history of the camp at Jakob's request so that atrocities such as they were witnessing would never occur again ( ' Always remember ' ) . At one point Jakob turned himself over to the Nazis to allow Melanie and Christopher to be released . Now , years later , Melanie is still cataloging all of the atrocities in the world as they appear in the newspaper and continues to attempt to find Jakob . Jakob writes to her and soon is arriving in Canada as an elderly man ( Max von Sydow ) , traveling with his surprise guest , the adult Christopher ( Gabriel Byrne ) . It is this visit that reunites Melanie , Jakob , and Christopher that allows closure to their turbulent history and a healing not only for the three survivors but for Melanie's family also . It is as though it took a quiet time in the beauty of nature and the life-sustaining atmosphere of a farm to cleanse these ' autumn hearts ' from the anguish of the past . Not all of the elements of the story are resolved : we never learn much about Benjamin and his state of solo fatherhood , David's private life that so incenses Melanie , etc . But these are minor exclusions in this beautifully sculpted story and film . The cinematography by Luc Montpellier and the musical score by Normand Corbeil capture not only the beauty of the Canadian landscape and lush colors of the farm in autumn , but also heighten the authenticity of the Drancy camp experience in the black and white flashbacks . This is an exceptional film that deserves a wide audience . Grady Harp
A Bucket , Brimming Over , of Life	Selecting a category for this very fine film results in the all-encompassing label ' mixed media ' , for lack of a better term . It is smart ( with an excellent script by Justin Zackham ) , addresses some important social issues , and it has moments of touching tenderness and equal moments of very sold comedy . AND it greatly benefits from the casting of Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman , two consummate actors playing out a theme that is unexpectedly a solid study of friendship and love . Carter ( Morgan Freeman ) narrates the story : Carter gave up his dreams for a college education and major career to support his surprise child from his wife Virginia ( Beverly Todd ) and has worked as a mechanic to support his own family , including his son Roger ( Alfonso Freeman , Morgan's son in real life also ! ) . After his children have all become successful , Carter is suddenly diagnosed with terminal cancer . He is hospitalized for chemotherapy , only to be placed in the same room with the wealthy and cantankerous owner of the hospital , Edward ( Jack Nicholson ) who also has been diagnosed with terminal cancer and is also in the hospital for chemotherapy . Edward's only ' friend ' ( he has basically alienated the world through his behavior ) is his assistant Thomas ( an excellent Sean Hayes ) who tends to his every need . Gradually the two disparate men grow into a friendship united by the common bond that they both must face impending death . Together they create ' the bucket list ' - things they want to do before dying , and because of Edward's wealth , they leave the hospital on a worldwide adventure of skydiving , racing cars , visiting the pyramids , etc . The manner in which these two elderly men bond casts a warm glow over the film without ever touching on the maudlin risk of communication . They simply grow in their appreciation of life as they learn from each other . Freeman and Nicholson are in peak form here and the supporting cast is very fine . But special credit must go to director Rob Reiner for giving us yet another film about humanism that would enrich the lives of anyone who takes the time to watch this very fine film . Grady Harp
A darkly brooding vision of the timelessness of vengeance	The story in this film is simple : blood for blood feuding between two families in the backlands of Brazil . If left at that , this would be a conceptually boring movie , one done hundreds of times in various locations for varying Hollywood budgets . The glory of BEHIND THE SUN is in the presentation and transformation of a familiar precis into a visually stunning prolonged motion painting . Director Salles has assembled a cast of beautiful actors ( especially Rodrigo Santoro ! ) , minimized the Portuguese dialog so that the visuals may convey the text almost solo , and has added appropriations from other art forms to make this a memorable film . The only characters outside the feuding families are a traveling troupe of ' clowns ' or a circus consisting of an older man and his sensuously beautiful stepdaughter . This nod to the " I PAGLIACCI " opera invests intrigue and introduces the concept of the redeeming force of love into this otherwise blighted life story of a young man doomed to die for family honor . The photography is elegant , the acting is superb , the musical scoring is sensitively appropriate without drawing attention to itself . This is a very beautiful , very fine film . Grady Harp
Arturo Ripstein and his Essential Loneliness of Souls	LA VIRGEN DE LA LUJURIA ( Virgin of Lust ) is a film that takes patience on the part of the viewer : not only is it two and a half hours in length , it requires a working background in Spanish history of colonization of the Americas and Franco's Spanish rule during WW II , magical realism , and surrealism to fully appreciate how truly unique this story is . Arturo Ripstein is Mexico's premiere film director and for those who have followed his output , his works reflect his apprenticeship with Luis Bunuel and his preoccupation with recurring themes of loneliness and his somber , slow style of directing . The convoluted story of LA VIRGEN DE LA LUJURIA at first watching seems to contain information overload that gets in the way of this opera / ballet art piece . That may put some viewers off : it is work to follow this storyline on that level . But if the viewer can reduce the story to its symbolism and focus on that alone , then this is a fascinating film that takes all manner of chances ( crude language , aberrant sexuality , fantasies , main characters breaking into song from Gilbert and Sullivan's ' Mikado ' to patriotic ditties and romantic swooners , bizarre camera effects such as raining inside a room , etc ) . Apparently it is important to understand the disparity between the Spanish colonialists and the native South American / Mexican peoples : power vs subjugation , cultural vs peasant mentality , the concept of dichotomy of Spanish exiles in the land of Spain's colonies with the superimposition of escaped Spaniards from Franco's rule and the opposition of Franco devotees . At least it helps to explain the odd love story that unfolds here in Vera Cruz . Nacho ( Luis Felipe Tovar ) is a Native Mexican cum supplanted Spaniard waiter in a hotel café Ofelia run by Don Lazaro ( Julian Pastor ) who is a devote Francophile . Don Lazaro keeps Nacho in his servitude place , demands he serve the freeloader Spaniard guests who plot to kill Franco , and reinforces Nacho's low esteem . Enter Lola ( Adriana Gil ) , a drunken , opium addicted prostitute whose only preoccupation is with the perfect sexual partner of her life , on Gardenia Wilson ( Alberto Estrella ) who happens to make his living as a masked wrestler . Lola accepts protection from Nacho , eventually abusing the frightened soul who has fallen in lust with her . Lola dreams of killing Franco and it is this avenue that Nacho decides is his entry into Lola's love - killing Franco for her . Working with a photographer Gimeno / Mikado ( Juan Diego ) who spends his hours creating retablos of history using actors on sets for his strange photographs , Nacho ultimately is given the ' role ' of the exterminator of Franco . It is unnecessary to say that the ending of the story does not match Nacho's dreams , but instead surrealism and magical realism enter to provide a twist that is most entertaining . Though I thought I could summarize this film in fewer words than I have , I hope this brief distillation will encourage you to give this work a chance . There is a lot of exciting lighting , scenery , music , strange metaphors and parables , and just plain exciting direction to be enjoyed by the patient viewer . Relax on the historical parts and the obvious contradictions with reality and you will get a sense of Director Ripstein's importance ! Grady Harp
Finding Self : A Beautiful Coming of Age Story	MY BROTHER IS AN ONLY CHILD ( ' Mio fratello è figlio unico ' ) is a title that may confuse the casual movie viewer , but it is an apt summation of the rigorous story that this excellent Italian film by Danielle Luchetti ( adapted from a novel by Antonio Pennacchi ) represents - the coming of age of two brothers in the confusing and turbulent 1960's and 1970's in Italy . While the film deals with the myriad political factions that disrupted life especially among the students of that era , the main focus of the story is the indomitable brotherly love that bonds the two main characters . Accio Benano ( Vittorrio Emanuele Popizo ) as a child is a mischief maker who has entered seminary to become a priest , but his innate search for truth and meaning soon finds him returning home to his little family in a Mussolini-fabricated town called Latina , a village built on promises of communal well-being ( a housing project was built but the poor villagers are refused access to it ) , but languishes in the poverty of lost hopes and deflated spirits . Accio's father , mother , younger sister and older brother Manrico ( Riccardo Scamarcio ) are making ends meet , but are frustrated with the political oppression of the working class . Time passes and the older Accio ( Elio Germano ) comes under the influence of Mussolini's ' idealism ' with the tutelage of his older friend Mario ( Luca Zingaretti ) and embraces Fascism while Manrico has aligned with the communists , and it is this dichotomy of belief that sets Accio apart from his brother as well as his family who are communist sympathizers . Accio's personality places him in harms way with the law , with women ( he has longings for the women in both Mario's and Manrico's lives ) , and ultimately with turns of events that threaten to pit brother against brother . The resolution of these conflicts makes for a fascinating study of familial ties , brotherly love , and a keenly observed sociopolitical history of Italy that is as enlightening as it is entertaining . While Germano and Scamarcio are the obvious stars of this well acted film , the supporting cast ( including such fine actors as Angela Finocchiaro , Massimo Popolizio , Alba Rohrwacher , Anna Bonaiuto , and Diane Fleri ) is uniformly strong . This epic film demands full attention to the script ( Italian with English subtitles ) to follow the various political differences , but the tenor of the film is one of the excitement and concomitant love of two brothers coming of age in the best Italian style ! It is a joy to watch and a lesson in history about which we should all be aware . Grady Harp
Time Stops with Trauma : Flashbacks and Flash Forwards	Laura Kasischke's intelligent novel ' The Life Before Her Eyes ' has been brilliantly adapted for the screen by Emil Stern , and with the skills of director Vadim Perelman , this underrated movie in the theaters may find a wider appreciative audience in this DVD format . It is a film that challenges the viewer to think , to piece together the evidence , and to come to personal conclusions about the meaning of the story . Diana ( Evan Rachel Wood in an outstanding performance ) is a ' loose girl ' in her highschool who happens to be best friends with her total opposite , the moralistic virgin Maureen ( Eva Amurri ) . While sharing thoughts and gossip in the school's bathroom they hear gunshots and rapidly become victims of a wild student's killing spree , terrorizing the school . The killer enters the bathroom , asks the girls to decide which one of the two will volunteer to die , gunshots blaze and we see Diana lying on the floor of the bathroom while Maureen shrinks beneath the sinks : the last gunshots are apparently the killer committing suicide . Flash forward 15 years and Diana ( Uma Thurman ) is the beautiful wife of a professor ( Sherman Alpert ) , an art history teacher , and mother of young Emma ( Gabrielle Brennan ) . There is something not quite real about the atmosphere : Diana lives in fear and grief ( ? Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome ? ) and despite her ' perfect ' surroundings , she is ridden with anxiety . When asked by a friend if she is going to attend the 15 year Memorial for the school shooting event Diana says she hasn't decided . What follows is a series of flashbacks allowing us to fully understand the young Diana's motivations and impulsive behavior and her close relationship with Maureen before the tragedy changed their lives . But gaping holes in the history of the event and the subsequent years ultimately force the viewer to decide what actually happened in the past : are we witnessing reality or imagined dreams - and it is left to every viewer to decide the facts of the story for themselves . Uma Thurman is brilliant in this challenging role and Evan Rachel Wood is equally stunning as the younger version of Thurman's role . The entire cast contributes an ensemble performance that keeps us involved in this thriller from opening frame to closing credits . Vadim Perelman's approach to the story offers subtle , visually magnificent images that provide clues throughout the film about the division between real and imagined . This is a fine film on every level . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Stylish Film Noir Blending Suspense , Humor , and Insights into Gay Life	Ron Oliver is to be commended for bringing this first story from the Donald Strachey Mysteries by Richard Stevenson ( screenplay by Mark Saltzman ) to the screen . This first story is so well written , directed , acted and filmed that it can only give us hope that the other novels in the Donald Strachey series will be forthcoming . The story is a modern detective story that takes place in Albany , New York and is complete with realistic characters , a fine plot well paced , and a number of twists and turns that keep the audience not only entertained but glued to the screen . The difference , here , is that the detective Strachey ( Chad Allen in an impressive performance ) happens to be a gay man , well adjusted , living with his wholesome and tender partner Timmy ( Sebastian Spence ) . The action involves a gay activist John Rutka ( Jack Wetherall ) with a penchant for outing political figures whose agenda is not friendly to the community . He likewise lives with a healthy life partner Eddie ( Woody Jeffreys ) and the two seem targeted for death by apparent candidates for Rutka's next outing computer magazine . Strachey is engaged to protect Rutka despite initial , partner-supported feelings that Rutka disrupts closeted men's lives too ruthlessly . But take the case on he does and he proves to be not only smart but wise while remaining a lovable detective . The plots thickens and surprises are everywhere just as good detective mysteries should have . But along the way the film takes the time to make some cogent statements about the clergy and politicians and other significant matters that raises this movie to a fine level of social consciousness . The cast is excellent and the love scenes are beautifully presented . There is even some beefcake ( Matthew Rush as the ' Dik Steele ' porn star in the buff ) and club scenes to lighten the action . The film includes a superb featurette with Ron Oliver discussing how the film made it to the screen and includes for once some healthy conversation from openly gay actors who are enlightened about their roles . Though obviously a ' gay film ' , the story and production are so strong that any audience will find this a fine mystery ! Highly recommended .
A Fitting Valedictory for Jet Li	Jet Li has been an impressive presence in film as a martial arts practitioner and choreographer both in his native China and in his US films . He has selected FEARLESS as his final film as a martial artist and a better choice of story for a final bow could not be imagined . Based on the life of Chinese Martial Arts Master Huo Yuanjia ( 1869-1910 ) , the founder and spiritual leader of the Jin Wu Sports Federation still in existence internationally , Jet Li acts the role of Huo Yuanjia , a man whose father's heroics were surpassed only by his compassion , a trait the film shows us to be the lesson learned by Huo Yuanjia . Beginning with his childhood where all of his influences and those people who altered his life are introduced by child actors ( the weakest portion of this film ) , he grows into the role as champion Washu fighter of his province , but his championship is not without problems : he inadvertently kills his final opponent opening a series of tragedies that drives him , a broken man , into the rural area of China where he learns the simple life and ideals of his people . He returns to his province to visit the sites of his family's memorials and the memorial of the man he killed . He further accepts a challenge to fight again only this time despite onerous odds he allows his spiritual awakening to govern the outcome . The film is lushly beautiful with some of the finest cinematography of China we have yet to see . The choreography of the fight sequences is superb and Jet Li commits his all to the role both as actor and martial arts fighter . The audience is left feeling a new sense of respect for the travails of China at the early part of the 20th century , for the field of Marital Arts , for the dignity of one of China's heroes , and for the performer / actor Jet Li . It is a most fitting valedictory . Grady Harp
Tim Burton's Visually Stunning Masterpiece	As far as adaptations of old American novels go , Tim Burton's visually rich , tightly composed , resplendent version of Washington Irving's ' The Legend of Sleepy Hollow ' ranks in the top echelon . The script for the screen is the work of Kevin Yagher and Andrew Kevin Walker and while it takes some liberties from Irving's story , the resulting dialogue and action pacing are so wholly in keeping with Burton's vision that it feels like an original story . Much of the magnificence of this film is due to the atmospheric set design by Rick Heinrichs ( with art direction by Ken Court , John Dexter , and Andy Nicholson with set decoration by Peter Young ) and Colleen Atwood's extraordinary costumes . It is not usual to credit these artists when reviewing a film , but their contributions are an integral part of the success of the movie . As far as acting , Johnny Depp as Ichabod Crane shines in a fully nuanced character portrayal complete with paraphernalia and ticks and mild madness . He is ably supported by Christina Ricci ( in one of her finest moments ) , and a troupe of brilliant actors that includes Michael Gambon , Miranda Richardson , Casper Van Dien , Jeffrey Jones , Richard Griffiths , Christopher Lee , and Ian McDiarmid . They appear as though they are daguerreotypes , so perfectly in keeping with the time and period and mannerisms of Irving's novel . The musical score by Danny Elfman and cinematography by Emmanuel Lubezki are synchronous with Tim Burton's brilliant direction . This is a treasure of a film . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Brilliant Little Film Opens the Window to an Unknown Profession	PIERREPOINT : THE LAST HANGMAN is one of those films that emerges from the cracks in the theater ' failures ' only to find its poignant message when released on DVD . Granted , the idea of a story based on England's most famous executioner doesn't immediately catch the interest of the general audience , but for those fortunate enough to either rent or buy this DVD , the rewards are plentiful . It is a little masterpiece of writing , acting , directing and production values . Albert Pierrepoint was the third man in his family to ' ascend ' to the list of executioners ( capital punishment in England at the time was by hanging ) , and when he is accepted to the list in 1932 he begins what became the longest and most prolific career of British executioners . He took enormous pride in his work , assuring his peers as well as his ' victims ' that every aspect of his job was done with obsessive professionalism : his timing of his duties was the shortest on record , meaning that from the moment he opened the door to the condemned prisoner's room through the hooding and noose placement and tripping of the platform and subsequent death of the ' criminal ' , he spared suffering as much as was feasible . He was supported by a wife who kept the secret of her husband's anonymous role and it was only when the Pierrepoint's pride in his job became known that downfall of their lives is threatened . At times adored by the public for his assignment to hand the Nazi criminals and the famous murderers and eventually the target of the anti capital punishment activists , Pierrepoint's professionalism sustained him until a final tragic assignment changed his view of his job . Timothy Spall is splendid as Pierrepoint , capturing all of the nuances of the simple , honest man's pride as well as his Achilles ' heel . Juliet Stevenson turns in yet another understated and completely realized role as Pierrepoint's wife . Director Adrian Shergold , using a script written by Bob Mills and Jeff Pope , paces the film sensitively , drawing on the atrocious duties involved in the job of executioner ( they actually had to prepare the bodies of the dead victims for the morticians ! ) along with the moments of pub frivolity to allow the audience to understand the true person Timothy Spall absorbs in his portrayal of Pierrepoint . The sets and lighting and cinematography could not be better . This is a film to view and absorb and appreciate the superior quality of acting of Spall and Stevenson . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Superlative Insight and History of the Ballet Russes	Once in a while a documentary sheds such inner light on the subject matter and the characters that it becomes an art film , a story , a novel , a memento . Such is the case with BALLET RUSSES . This tender , touching , humorous , and exactingly real look at the history of ballet in the hands of the expatriated Russians in Europe in the early part of the 20th century to the reformation of the troop after the death in 1929 by master Impresario Diaghilev unfolds through the words and movements of those who experienced it . To say too much about the content would be like telling each member of a conversation group the essence before the topic unfolds . Suffice it to say that here are the dancers , choreographers , composers , artists creating the sets and costumes who produced the contemporary standard for ballet that still exist today . To have the joy of watching Massine , Balanchine , Lichine , Markova , Krassovska , Danilova , Riabouchinska , Platt , Zoritch , Franklin and the designs of Picasso , Dali , Laurencin , etc is more than a visual treat : it is a step into a history of creativity the likes of which we may never see again . The real joy of this rich film is the conversations and , yes , dance movements of the surviving members of this troop and those who admired it . It is full of touching moments and memorable sequences that easily place this documentary in the top of the list of works in this genre ,
A Study of Filial Devotion and Survival	Micha Wald has created a strong masculine drama as writer and director of ' VOLEURS DE CHEVAUX ' ( IN THE ARMS OF MY ENEMY ) , a film with a grand sweeping view of nineteenth century life in the region of Russia and has accomplished this with a very small budget , a cast a both unknown and new actors , and a production crew sensitive to place and atmosphere . For some reason the marketing of this film has been directed to a particular audience instead of emphasizing the broad spectrum of those who love epic dramas . It deserves very wide attention , as it is an excellent meditation on the rigors of filial love among the destitute of the period . Part I : Him : Jakub ( Adrien Jolivet ) is the diminutive but strong older brother of Vladimir ( Grégoire Leprince-Ringuet ) , a gentle and handsome young lad who depends on Jakub's ' parenting ' . The two destitute brothers fend for themselves , dressed in rags , begging for food and work , until they encounter a group of soldiers who are enlisting young men to be Cossacks . Jakub sees the opportunity for food and shelter and ' belonging ' and encourages Vladimir to join him in enlisting . The rigors of ' boot camp ' drive Jakub to dangerous extremes and result in his being punished and imprisoned for varying periods of time while he still masters fighting techniques and equestrian skills : the more defenseless Vladimir falls victim to abuses at the hands of his fellow recruits . When Jakub discovers that Vladimir has been raped , he resorts to serious fighting and the two brothers are placed in a solitary confinement box . When their training period is over , the boys witness the brutality of the Cossacks as they slaughter innocent families , and this is the breaking point that drives them to desertion . They escape the Cossacks on stolen horses , but while bathing in a river , their horses are stolen . Part II : Them : The horse thieves are two other impoverished brothers with a strong parallel - Roman ( Grégoire Colin ) is the stronger , pugilistic older brother who takes care of his younger brother Elias ( François-René Dupont ) , a gentle lad crippled in youth by a goring from a ram but who maintains an ability to communicate with animals . They live humbly in a forest shack and an underground hideaway , and when they make their rare excursions into the village tavern , Roman jealously guards the more fragile Elias , threatening even the girl Virina ( Mylène St-Sauveur ) with whom Elias is infatuated . Using a combination of their skills , Roman and Elias steal the horses of Jakub and Vladimir , and the trail of vengeance begins . Part III : Us : Both sets of brothers are needy and their destinies collide due to the theft of horses . Tragedies mount , both sets of brothers intensify their filial bond of compassion , but the older brothers fight to the death of one and in the end one of the brothers provides succor to the survivor of the other set of brothers and the ending leaves the audience to guess the future altered by violence and need . Micha Wald draws powerful performances from his young cast of beautiful actors and with a minimum of dialogue ( in French with English subtitles ) he creates wholly credible characters about whom we care very much . The cinematography by Jean-Paul de Zaetijd is superb and the haunting musical score by Jóhann Jóhannsson , Jeff Mercelis and Stephan Micus is rich in capturing the harmonies of the music of the period and the location . In all , this is a visually stunning film and a story that is subtle and touching and impressively sophisticated in the manner in which it is told . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Docudrama that Entertains and Informs	It is good to see this 1994 television miniseries finally come out on DVD . Be prepared for a long evening ( the running time for the two discs is three hours 23 minutes ) but it is time well invested . WORLD WAR II : WHEN LIONS ROARED is a creative montage of actual film clips from the newsreels shown in theaters at that time together with contemporary filmed drama in script written by David W . Rintels and crafted and directed by Joseph Sargent . This film allows us to revisit history the way it was - with more behind the scenes activity among the great powers than most other films offer . The roaring lions are very well portrayed by John Lithgow as Franklin Delano Roosevelt , Bob Hoskins as Winston Churchill and Michael Caine as Stalin . Each actor steps wholly into his role without resorting to mimicry or simply stage makeup . It is fascinating to see how the USA was a non-intervener at first ( a refreshingly different stance form the current aggressor role we have adopted ) and how the needs of the planet required global cooperation in the face of Hitler et al . Ed Begley Jr . offers a lot of information about the important figure Harry Hopkins about whom we hear little as does Jan Triska as Vyacheslav Molotav , Stalin's key man . The compilation of real footage with created footage including the split screen technique to allow the three leaders to interact from their different locations works well . This is one of those historic films that deserves repeated viewing . An excellent production . Grady Harp
' Music that soothes the savage beast . . . '	LES CHORISTES ( THE CHORUS ) is director Christophe Berratier's first foray into the realm of full-length films and his adaptation of the 1945 film LA CAGE AUX ROSSINGNOLS written by Georges Chaperot and René Wheeler serves to introduce his talents as a master storyteller well . This tale of how music can alter the lives of even most renegade of boys is warm , sensitive , and satisfying on every level . The story opens with the reunion of two men who were classmates at Fond de l'Etang , a boarding school for troubled boys in France in 1949 . Pepinot ( Didier Flammand ) arrives at the door of consummate symphony conductor Pierre Morhange ( Jacques Perrin ) with a journal written by their beloved teacher Clement Mathieu , now dead , and the two read the journal , recalling their shared childhood experiences at Fond de l'Etang . 1949 and the Fond de l'Etang is a dreary jail-like , rundown place run by the cruel disciplinarian headmaster Rachin ( François Berléand ) . Clément Mathieu ( Gérard Jugnot ) is an older , bald , failed musician who seeks employment as a prefect in the school and immediately is forced to confront the rigors of the school's harsh discipline with the still flagrantly wild boys . Mathieu slowly wins the confidence of his boys by standing up to the cruel Rachin and when he is near his wits ' end as to how to transform his class , he hears a boy sing and decides to use his musical talent to change these boys ' lives . Two of the chief problem children are the angry but vocally gifted Pierre Morhange ( Jean-Baptiste Maunier ) and Leclerc ( Théodul Carré-Cassaigne ) and Mathieu coaxes them into the inner circle of his newly developing chorus . The other child who is without talent but for whom Mathieu empathizes when the child waits every Saturday for someone to claim him at the gates is Pepinot ( Maxence Perrin ) who Mathieu assigns as his assistant chorus master ! Through a series of incidents including the cruelty of Rachin , the appearance of Violette Morhange ( Pierre's poor working mother who cannot afford to feed him ) , the success of the chorus in the eyes of the Countess ( Carol Weiss ) who acts as benefactor to the school , and some evil doings of the more difficult children , Mathieu's Chorus becomes a symbol for how problem children can bond in mutual need to the enrichment music provides . Rachin cannot tolerate Mathieu's success and fires him without allowing him to say a farewell to his beloved choristers . The manner in which this is portrayed is most touching and spiritually enriching and serves to resolve the mystery of Mathieu's departure to the adult Morhange and Pepinot as they finish the journal . Simple story , told before , but superbly acted and performed . The music is by Jean-Philippe Rameau with original songs by director Barratier and Bruno Coulais , all beautifully sung by Les Petits Chanteurs de Saint-Marc with young actor Jean-Baptiste Maunier singing his own solos . The cinematography is in the capable hands of Jean-Jacques Bouhon , Dominique Gentil , and Carlo Varini . In French with English subtitles . Highly recommended little jewel of a film ! Grady Harp
A Beautiful , Intelligent , and Sensitive Contemporary Love Story	Arnaud Viard has written and directed a quintessentially French love story that simply has everything going for it . The dialogue is richly imbued with both light hearted comedic elements as well as radiant moments of verismo that make this little story one that , once seen , will be indelible in the memory of the viewer . This is a love story awash with all of the nuances of contemporary life in Paris - and in the entire world . Antoine ( Julien Boisselier ) is a thirty-three year old actor , having given up his business career to pursue his dream , yet a young man without a partner . Serendipity strikes on the Metro as Antoine sees a shy woman his age Clara ( Julie Gayet ) and from the silence surrounding their exchanged looks it is obvious something will happen . Antoine demurely writes a note on his pad and without speaking shows it to Clara . Clara responds with a written message , and the game ends with Clara giving Antoine her telephone number ! At a surprise birthday party that evening Antoine , though happy with his close friends ' display of love for him , thinks only of the beautiful Clara and that he calls her . They begin a sweet and musical romance , literally singing and dancing along the Seine : they fall in love . Feeling commitment coming , the two decide to be tested for HIV ( contemporary sanity is still part of the picture ) and Clara discovers she is HIV positive . Antoine cannot deal with this fact and decides they cannot go on . A trip home for Antoine gives him the input from his surgeon father ( Michel Aumont ) and this meaningful communication between father and son reinforces the fact that despite all circumstances , he truly and deeply loves Clara . He returns to Paris to ask Clara's forgiveness , to reconcile - but life is as it is and the film's ending will touch the hearts of even the coldest of viewers . This is an honest recounting of the magic of being in love and living in the world in which we find ourselves . The supporting cast is outstanding with every minor role played with honesty and simplicity . But it is the sheer magic on the parts of the leads that makes this film miraculous . Julie Gayet is not only incredibly beautiful , she is also am extraordinary actress , taking us with her through every subtle change in her journey . And the same can be said for Julien Boisselier - handsome in the French manner , with a face so plastic that every particle of emotion he tries so desperately to conceal is given to us , intensifying his performance and making us feel his joys and his wounds . Arnaud Viard is a chemist with words and with silences , a conjuror who knows just how much to say and ask of his actors to give us a film that is perfect in every detail . The magnificent music score is by Benjamin Biolay with assistance from Bertrand Burgalat and Franz Schubert ( ' Fantasia for piano four hands ' ) . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Pity of War : Another View	While we are engaged in yet another intrusive ill-advised war , the time is right for the release of a story that reminds us of the lingering malignant consequences of the equally intrusive war in Vietnam . For those who falsely believe that a war is over with the signing of a declaration and the evacuation of troops this magnificently poignant film will be an eye opener . And for those who are aware of the broken families and bitter scars of war marking those who fought on both sides , the story will find a different response - one of memory of pain , regret , and wonder at the tale of just one survivor . Binh ( Damien Nguyen ) is a half-breed , his mother a Vietnamese and his father an American soldier , and as such is has no country : he doesn't belong and lives as an outcast . His struggle for life leads to his departing his village in Vietnam for Saigon where he reconnects with his estranged mother Mai ( Thi Kim Xuan Chau ) , and his very young half brother Tam ( Dang Quoc Thinh Tran ) , who works as a servant in an abusive wealthy Vietnamese household . The reunion is touching and Binh joins his mother on the staff as a servant . An unfortunate accident occurs forcing Binh to flee to America , his young brother Tam accompanying him at Mai's insistence : Mai sees America as the beautiful country where her sons will find their father in Houston , Texas and have a new life . The bulk of the film is the treacherous journey of Binh and Tam along with Ling ( Ling Bai ) , a Chinese girl who befriends them . They survive a detention camp in Malaysia , a doomed boat trip , and a long journey aboard a filthy human trafficking ship whose Captain Oh ( Tim Roth ) monitors their survival ( except for Tam who succumbs to fever ) and ultimately releases them into the waters along New York . Binh and Ling survive in Chinatown in New York in the most menial of jobs , again surviving abuse in the land of promise . Eventually Binh travels to Texas for a reunion with his biological father ( Nick Nolte ) and even that reunion is marked by the permanent scars the war has left on the survivors . Through all of the incomprehensible hardships Binh is marked with a spirit of survival that pays homage to the human soul's ability to sustain life through hope . The message is powerful and for once is not cosmetically altered by the writers or the director or the fine cast . Damien Nguyen and Ling Bai are outstanding and the cameo roles are all superb . This is an epic film , not a pretty one , but a film about the pity of war , one that pleads the case against war in simply recalling the disastrous after effects that many choose to forget . And it is a story of the triumph of the human spirit . If we are to ever understand the pity of war and the inhumanity of war , we must be aware of the sequelae . Highly recommended on every level . Grady Harp
Spousal Abuse : A Horrifyingly Real Story of the Consequences	TE DOY MIS OJOS ( Take My Eyes ) is a blisteringly real examination of spousal abuse - the etiology , the mechanisms , the concept of co-dependency , and the high rate of recidivism - all bound together in a brilliant screenplay by Alicia Luna and director Icíar Bollaín . It won many Goyas ( read Oscars ) in Spain and for good reason : this is a powerful film about an indelicate subject from a country ( Spain ) not usually comfortable discussing much less film such issues . Pilar ( Laia Marull ) and her son Juan ( Nicolás Fernández Luna ) live in a small apartment with husband / father Antonio ( Luis Tosar ) , a small section of hell where daily Antonio abuses Pilar with an uncontrollable anger . Pilar and Juan leave one night to live with Pilar's soon to be married sister Ana ( Candela Peña ) and fiancé , a Scotsman John ( David Mooney ) . Ana encourages Pilar to divorce the abusive Antonio but Pilar is frightened , fearing she has no means of support and admitting that there are parts of Antonio she still loves . Complicating Pilar's thinking is her mother Aurora ( the fine Rosa Maria Sardà ) who tries to underplay the problem by insisting that all marriages have their little problems ! Antonio stalks Pilar , pleading for her to return , but every encounter results in a flair-up of Antonio's abusive behavior . Pilar finds a menial job at the museum in Toledo , a position she loves and soon is training to become a guide , loving speaking tot he public about art . Antonio agrees to seek help for his behavioral problems and enters group therapy and private therapy ( Sergi Calleja ) and begins bringing flowers and gifts and constant attention to Ana , hoping to have her return home . And return Ana does , with Juan , and with some newfound sense of self worth form her position at the museum . But as soon as Ana is ' home ' a horrifying incident occurs and she gathers the strength to see the relationship clearly and respond correctly . The cast of actors is brilliant , the pacing of the film keeps the viewer on seat's edge , the cinematography by Carles Gusi captures the magic of Toledo , Spain , the musical score by Alberto Iglesias is first rate classical writing , and the amount of information about a little understood problem is an additional reward that accompanies this superb film . The film is in Spanish with English subtitles and the DVD adds a featurette that further examines a treatment center for abusive men feels like a much needed public service ploy . This is one of those films that would be easy to ignore because of the subject matter , but that is a real reason to view it - in addition to the fact that it is such a fine work of art . Grady Harp
What's Not to Love about Mad Hot Ballroom !	MAD HOT BALLROOM is an example of how fine documentary film-making can create more drama , comedy , insight , and sensitivity than regular films . The reason seems to be one of honesty : honesty in approaching the subject matter , honesty in allowing the lives of the individuals involved in the story to speak clearly without superficially imposed emotion , and honesty in presenting the subject for what it is instead of moralizing or judging . The ' cast ' includes some of the most interesting and wise children from the various schools in New York ( Manhattan , Brooklyn , Bensonhurst , etc ) whose comments while not on the dance floor are penetrating in insight as to the various living conditions they represent . Quite simply , they are unforgettable kids , from the wise Emma , to the hyperactive Michael , to the eloquently non-English speaking Wilson - the list is endless . Equally compelling are the reactions from the various teachers and principals of the schools involved in this ballroom dancing competition . These are the kinds of dedicated teachers and administrators that are role models for teachers across the country . The interactions between teacher and children are clearly a one on one situation , not some formula that wouldn't fit from one area to the next . The dancing itself is fun to observe : these kids not only take on the tango , merengue , rumba , swing , two-step etc , they also finesse the partnership behavior that extend from the gentility of the dance floor into the growing , out of class relationships , serving as rays of hope and proof that given opportunity and support and encouragement from staff and peers , many of these disenfranchised kids can turn their lives into positive ventures . The photography and editing and ' direction ' are superb and the tension for each level of the competition builds in us as viewers as strongly as it is lived by the kids . A really fine film . Grady Harp
The Title , Sadly , Says It All	' La Femme de Gilles ' ( ' Gilles ' Wife ' ) began as a novel by Madeleine Bourdouxhe and was transformed for the screen by Philippe Blasband , Marion Hänsel and Frédéric Fonteyne who also directs this stunning and controversial art piece . Certainly one of the most visually magnificent films of recent years ( cinematographer Virginie Saint-Martin ) ' Gilles ' Wife ' succeeds on every level : the story is unique , the direction is liquid and languorous , and the cast is superlative . Elisa ( the remarkably sensitive Emmanuelle Devos ) lives with her husband Gilles in what appears to be a perfect marriage : Elisa is the doting but sincerely in love housewife who spends her days caring for their twin daughters , cleaning house , cooking special meals , canning berry jams , keeping her husband satisfied sexually ; Gilles ( Clovis Cornillac ) appears to be a loving husband , tender with Elisa , enamored with her , and content . Elisa has a younger attractive sister Victorine ( Laura Smet ) who visits this haven-like household frequently to see her nieces and almost from the start we sense there is an attraction between Gilles and Victorine . Elisa becomes pregnant with their third child and Gilles grows a bit distant . Elisa gradually acknowledges the fact that he is having an affair with Victorine and though hurt by the deception she decides the only way to keep Gilles is to allow him to discuss the matter with her . Patiently she listens to his fears that Victorine may have another lover and in fact allows Elisa to stalk Victorine to substantiate the affair . Elisa accomplishes her mission and Gilles is devastated with the truth , all the while paying little attention to the emotional sacrifices Elisa is making on his behalf . There are confrontations , Elisa even seeks out a priest to help her in resolving her pain but the priest doesn't pay attention and Elisa is left with silence . When eventually the affair between Gilles and Victorine ends Elisa has given birth to a son , accepts Gilles ' remorse , and ultimately in her own quiet way finds a mode of redemption for her trials with an unfaithful husband . The fact the Elisa is content to be just ' Gilles ' wife ' instead of maintaining her dignity is hard to swallow at first but in Emmanuelle Devos ' gifts as an actress we are made to understand her choices . The triad of actors here are amazingly fine and they are directed with graceful sensitivity by Frédéric Fonteyne . As an extra on the DVD there is an extended conversation with Fonteyne who shares some of the deleted scenes - this viewer only wishes there were not deleted ! - and gives one of the more intelligent surveys of a film's story and progress on record . The visual painting of the scenes is so very beautiful that each frame could be a canvas . This is an impressively fine and deeply moving film . Highest recommendation . Grady Harp
Honest , Genuinely Funny , and Very Touching Little Film	THE AMATEURS is about as close to the quality of British film comedies ( a high compliment indeed ! ) as we have seen , thanks to writer / director Michael Traeger . It is everything a small town community aura represents without the stumbling blocks of cruelty that so often provide the turning point in ' rural stories ' that defame the simple homespun humanity that is too often foreign to the big city life . Perhaps to refer to it as ' sweet ' will rile some review readers , but for this viewer the overriding emotion at the close of the story is just that - sweet , in the finest sense of the term . The film is narrated by the down and out , unemployed , newly divorced middle-aged crisis victim Andy Sargentee ( Jeff Bridges ) who spends his time in the local watering hole trying to come up with an idea that will change his fortune - and life . Giving up his marriage to Thelma ( Jeanne Tripplehorn ) and his son Billy ( Alex D . Linz ) has been painful but Andy believes he will somehow regain their respect by discovering his ' big idea ' . Surrounding him are other underachievers such as Some Idiot ( Joe Pantoliano ) , Barney Macklehatton ( Tim Blake Nelson ) hopelessly in love with loony dreamer Helen ( Glenne Headly ) , church janitor Otis ( William Fichtner ) , local video store worker and video buff Emmett ( Patrick Fugit ) , Moe / Ron ( John Hawkes and Brad William Henke ) who are never seen alone , the closeted gay Moose ( Ted Danson ) , and bartender Floyd ( Tom Bower ) among other ' observers ' . A wild idea occurs to Andy : he and his friends could make an amateur porn film and make money and gain fame . Out of both love of Andy and individual needs to make something of their boring existence in the little town , the group commits to helping Andy with his project . How the steps succeed and fail underline the integrity and unconditional friendship these simple people represent . Along the way we meet the porn film's stars including Valerie Perrine , Judy Greer , Fiona Hunter , Isaiah Washington , Melinda Dahl - all of whom eagerly participate in the ' very private ' filming concept of an amateur porn film . How the final product is threatened and ultimately survives produces the warm ending to the film . And along the way we get to know Thelma's new husband Howard ( Steven Weber ) who breaks the stereotype of the rich new stepfather , and these small town folk including Dawn Didawick , Jayne Taini , Lauren Graham , and Eileen Brennan ( who contributes a very special cameo role ) . The film has been named THE MOGULS and DIRTY MOVIE in other countries and perhaps that confusion of titles has been part of the problem of the lack of promotion the film received in the theaters . But in a way , seeing this very special movie in home surroundings adds to the intimacy and the very warmly honest view of the genuinely kind and caring interrelationships among the people of this small town . There is much to be learned from this film and the added features include the writer / director sharing the experience with each of the actors in this truly ensemble work . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Search for Self Made Visual	' Presque Rien ' ( ' Come Undone ' ) is an earlier work by the inordinately gifted writer / director Sébastien Lifshitz ( with the collaboration of writer Stéphane Bouquet - the team that gave us the later ' Wild Side ' ) . As we come to understand Lifshitz's manner of storytelling each of his works becomes more treasureable . By allowing his tender and sensitive love stories to unfold in the same random fashion found in the minds of confused and insecure youths - time now , time passed , time reflective , time imagined , time alone - Lifshitz makes his tales more personal , involving the viewer with every aspect of the characters ' responses . It takes a bit of work to key into his method , but going with his technique draws us deeply into the film . Mathieu ( handsome and gifted Jérémie Elkaïm ) is visiting the seaside for a holiday , a time to allow his mother ( Dominique Reymond ) to struggle with her undefined illness , cared for by the worldly and wise Annick ( Marie Matheron ) and accompanied by his sister Sarah ( Laetitia Legrix ) : their distant father has remained at home for business reasons . Weaving in and out of the first moments of the film are images of Mathieu alone , looking depressed , riding trains , speaking to someone in a little recorder . We are left to wonder whether the unfolding action is all memory or contemporary action . While sunning at the beach Mathieu notices a handsome youth his age starring at him , and we can feel Mathieu's emotions quivering with confusion . The youth Cédric ( Stéphane Rideau ) follows Mathieu and his sister home , continuing the mystery of attraction . Soon Cédric approaches Mathieu and a gentle introduction leads to a kiss that begins a passionate love obsession . Mathieu is terrified of the direction he is taking , rebuffs Cédric's public approaches , but continues to seek him out for consignations . The two young men are fully in the throes of being in love and the enactment of the physical aspect of this relationship , so very necessary to understanding this story , is shared with the audience in some very erotic and sensual scenes . Yet as the summer wears on Mathieu , a committed student , realizes that Cédric is a drifter working in a condiment stand at a carnival . It becomes apparent that Cédric is the Dionysian partner while Mathieu is the Apollonian one : in a telling time in architectural ruin Mathieu is excited by the beauty of the history and space while Cédric is only interested in the place as a new hideaway for lovemaking . Mathieu is a complex person , coping with his familial ties strained by critical illness and a non-present father , a fear of his burgeoning sexuality , and his nascent passion for Cédric . Their moments of joy are disrupted by Cédric's admission of infidelity and Mathieu's inability to cope with that issue and eventually they part ways . Time passes , family changes are made , and Mathieu drifts into depression including a suicide attempt . The manner in which Mathieu copes with all of these challenges and finds solace , strangely enough , in one of Cédric's past lovers Pierre ( Nils Ohlund ) brings the film to an ambiguous yet wholly successful climax . After viewing the film the feeling of identification with these characters is so strong that the desire to start the film from the beginning now with the knowledge of the complete story is powerful . Lifshitz has given us a film of meditation with passion , conflicts with passion's powers found in love , and a quiet film of silences and reveries that are incomparably beautiful . The entire cast is superb and the direction is gentle and provocative . Lifshitz is most assuredly one of the bright lights of film-making . In French with English subtitles . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Powerful Film That Pleads for a Return to Meaningful Journalism	GOOD NIGHT , AND GOOD LUCK is a brilliant piece of film making , a film that recreates a period in our history when gossip mongers and fear exploiters took the lead for a terrifying few years that threatened to extinguish civil rights forever . Not unlike now ! And that is one reason this film carries so much resonance : the story of the bravery of popular news reporter Edward R . Morrow ( David Strathairn ) and his associates Fred Friendly ( George Clooney ) , Joe and Shirley Wershba ( Robert Downey , Jr . and Patricia Clarkson ) , William Paley ( Frank Langella ) and the crew at CBS is one that begs for re-creation in the way the news is reported , analyzed , and serves the rights of the public to be truly informed . The story is the 1950s McCarthyism Communist Hunting that terrified the country unchecked until Morrow et al challenged the Senator's accusations and methodology by simply quoting the statements McCarthy made in the television series See It Now . Morrow and his associates did not elect to smear McCarthy : they instead elected to bring to the public's quivering attention just what the sick mind of McCarthy was doing to innocent people . It was an act of bravery on Morrow's part and on the part of everyone connected with See It Now . George Clooney continues to impress as a quiet , subtle voice who doesn't seek the limelight for his brilliant mind , but rather uses it to enter the arena of emerging patriots - the good kind . He wrote the script with Grant Heslov after much research and investigation and then gathered a gifted crew of actors ( including himself ) and directed the film using the atmosphere of black and white photography ( credit cinematographer Robert Elswit ) in the almost exclusively interior claustrophobic set of the television station to give the ring of honesty that pulsates this story to its powerful end . Strathairn is brilliant as Morrow , but then so are all the cast members in this ensemble effort . GOOD NIGHT , AND GOOD LUCK is an immensely entertaining film on every level , but the fact that it is released in such a realistic fashion at this particular time in the nation's precarious history makes it a film that should be seen by everyone . The DVD added commentary by not only the writers and actors but also the people still living and the children of those who aren't is informative and sensitively poignant . Lightning can strike in the same place twice . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Ensemble Effect	Nigel Balchin's maze-like novel ' A Way Through the Wood ' has been adapted by Julian Fellowes who also directs this ' terribly British ' drawing room suspense piece . It is a film whose effect relies on the cast portraying the varyingly benign / malignant characters and it is here that Fellowes ' directorial choices are superb . The story has a linear line that is easy to follow , but the beauty of the film is the metamorphosis of each player as a single incident ignites a minefield of disasters . James Manning ( Tom Wilkinson ) is a successful business obsessed solicitor in London , married to Anne ( Emily Watson ) who needs more in her life : the couple being childless live in the country in a beautiful estate , assisted by their long term ' cleaner ' Maggie ( Linda Bassett ) . They attend social outings and meet , among others , William Bule ( Rupert Everett ) , the passively lazy wealthy neighbor . Anne decides they should entertain their neighbors and against gruff James ' protestation Anne proceeds with planning : James arranges to ' not attend due to business ' . On the night of the party there is a hit and run accident in which Maggie's husband is accidentally killed by someone in a Range Rover ( she observed ) . When James returns home he sees a scratch on William's Range Rover and suspects William to be the perpetrator . Anne discourages James from going to the police with the information - ' what possible good can it do but ruin Bill's life as a socialite and father and son of an important scion ? ' . From this first ' lie ' the virus spreads : James confronts Bill who talks James out of going to the police , Anne confesses it was she who was driving Bill's Rover and is the one responsible , James convinces Anne to keep it quiet because it would ruin his reputation , Anne confesses she is having an affair with Bill , and the three of them concur that they will stick together on their big lie for the sake of the greater good . Anne eventually succumbs to the guilt of not telling her beloved Maggie that she is the one responsible and Maggie , herself guilty of a previous theft whose life was saved by Anne's mercy to hire her anyway , is the agent who draws the story to its surprising conclusion . Lies begat lies that begat lies , et cetera . The major impact of this intrigue is the manner in which the isolated tragedy impacts each of the characters involved . Each changes in a dramatic way . Tome Wilkinson gives the finest performance of a career filled with brilliant performances : he is able to say more with his posture and facial expressions than about any actor before the audience today . Likewise the gifted Emily Watson adds yet another fine role to her repertoire as does the surprisingly smarmy Rupert Everett who , despite being yet another wealthy British ' gentleman ' , gives us a man both arid of spirit and yet ultimately needy . And the always-fine Linda Bassett takes a small role and finesses it making her character quietly central to the chaotic web of lies . The cinematography by Tony Pierce-Roberts and the musical score by Stanislas Syrewicz add immeasurably to the multiple atmospheres the story encounters . This is ensemble playing at its finest , which always means that the director ( Julian Fellowes ) has a fine grasp on the piece . The interplay of these fine people makes the dodgy story work very well indeed . Grady Harp
Lust , Caution : Acting , Becoming	Ang Lee has the ability to transform simple stories about human relationships into epic films that somehow maintain the quality of intimacy and tenderness despite the grand sweep of his productions . In LUST , CAUTION ( ' SE , JIE ' ) he has once again created a symphony of a film with a script by James Schamus based on the short story by Eileen Chang , assembled a cast superb actors who convey the story's multileveled messages on the historic backgrounds of World War II Shanghai and Hong Kong using the sensitive camera eye of Rodrigo Prieto and accompanied by Alexandre Desplat's evocative East / West musical score . It is a visual triumph , a fascinating recounting of China's history about which we know little , and one of the most intriguing love stories committed to film . The film opens in Hong Kong focusing on a group of college students who form a theater group to present plays of ' significance ' . Young Wong Chia Chi ( the luminous Wei Tang in her first cinematic role ) is asked to join the theatrical group and she consents primarily because of her attraction to the leader of the group , Kuang Yu Min ( Lee-Hom Wang , a commanding and handsome actor ) . Events of history alter the purpose of the art groups and they become a Resistance force against the Japanese occupation of China . The leader of the Japanese sympathizers is a Mr . Lee ( Tony Leung , one of the most solid actors on the screen today ) and the student group plans an infiltration into his home and life by placing Wong Chia Chi into his household . In residence in Mr . Lee's home , she learns to tolerate the constant mah jong games with Mr . Lee's wife ( Joan Chen ) and her gossipy girlfriends , only to await the moment when Mr . Lee will notice her and hopefully begin an affair that will result in inside information espionage . As the effects of the war tighten problems the Yees move to Shanghai and the troupe follows them : the troupe has become a committed political resistance force with plans to kill Mr . Yee and the cadre of men who support his siding with the Japanese . Wong Chia Chi agrees to follow Mr . Yee's sexual advances and in short time they are caught up in powerfully erotic explosions of lust : it is during these very frank and very erotic lovemaking scenes that Ang Lee manages to reveal the inner aspects of each of these important characters , allowing the audience to see the complete picture of how lust can dissipate caution . The changes that occur between the two characters set in motion a surprising ending , at once disturbing and understandable . Accompanying the DVD ( already in excess of 157 minutes ) is a ' making of ' feature and a discussion period with not only Ang Lee but also with the stars and production people that is very solid commentary and for once seems pertinent to enhance the enjoyment of the film . Some may find the extended lovemaking scenes too frankly sexual , but so much of the real grit of the story lies in the non-verbal , purely physical language that could only be understood in the way Lee decided to film these gorgeous scenes . This is an important film on many levels and will probably become better appreciated with multiple views . In Mandarin , Japanese , Shanghainese , English and Hindi with subtitles . Grady Harp
Life , Death , Grieving , Loss and Coping	François Ozon is a rare director , one who takes a simple story , places it in the eyes and bodies of his cast , and simply lets the tale tell itself . SOUS LE SABLE ( UNDER THE SAND ) is an unforgettable film experience that probes deeply into our psyches , hearts , and reason : how do we cope with sudden death ? Opening quietly in the French countryside , a loving middle-aged couple begins a brief vacation in a family house , quietly and lovingly going about removing dustcovers , opening shuttered windows - settling in for a time of being alone together . Marie ( Charlotte Rampling ) is a professor of English in Paris ( her specialty is Virginia Woolf ) and Jean ( Bruno Cremer ) is her retired husband . Their long-term love is palpable : Ozon provides almost no dialogue , as none is needed to establish this special relationship , so powerful is the non-verbal communication between Rampling and Cremer . They visit the beach the next day and while Marie is sunbathing , Jean goes for a swim - and never returns . Marie searches for him , engages lifeguards , and ultimately returns to Paris , trembling but intact . Months later , while Jean is never found , we see Marie reacting as though he still exists . She visualizes him in various situations and the two actors ( yes , Jean is present in these scenes ) interact as though nothing has changed . But Marie's friends note with great concern that she is ' delusional ' and make various attempts for her to seek professional and emotional help . When news eventually arrives that Jean's body has been found , she internally denies this possibility but eventually returns to the vacation house town to identify the bloated corpse . Even at this point , though obviously in shock , she denies that the corpse is that of her beloved Jean . She walks back to the site where she last saw Jean and in the distance a figure rekindles her hope . . . Charlotte Rampling delivers a performance wholly committed . She communicates the spectrum of feelings of this challenged strong woman with her eyes , her gazes in the mirror , her interaction with her class of students , her friends , her admirer with such power that makes her Marie a wholly credible creature stricken by loss yet surviving in her chosen manner . It is one of the great performances of cinema . The entire small cast of this film is perfection . Ozon is a magical director and continues to prove he is one of the most honest and quietly powerful figures in today's cinema . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Genuinely Fine and Fresh Look at an Ongoing Problem	Once again HBO has produced a film for television that will doubtless be a success not only in its televised version but on theater release and / or DVD . LIFE SUPPORT as written by Nelson George , Hannah Weyer and Jim McKay and directed with power and restraint by Nelson George has the courage to delve deeply into the problem of AIDS in the black community and the result is a film that is not only informative but also a story of tremendous power about the sequelae of HIV infection on the lives of those infected and their families . Based on the true story of a mother who as a rack cocaine addict became infected by her boyfriend's indiscriminate use of a shared needle and with the discovery of her sero-positive status turned her life around to become a powerful positive role model and AIDS activist in the black community . Ana Willis ( Queen Latifah in a sterling performance ) is married to Slick ( Wendell Pierce ) , both of whom are HIV positive and both work , living with their young daughter Kim ( Ravelle Parker ) and trying to cope with their estranged daughter Kelly ( Rachel Nicks , a true find of a young artist ! ) who elects to live with her grandmother , Ana's beleaguered mother ( Anna Deavere Smith , once again proving she is one of the premiere actors of the day ) . Kelly and Ana are at odds and their strained relationship is one of the evidences of the cruelties of the aftermath of ex-addicts manner of going straight . Kelly's closest friend is Omari ( Evan Ross , gifted actor son of Diana Ross ! ) who is gay and is very ill with AIDS . Kelly asks for Ana's help when Omari disappears and it is through this act that the story plunges forward into the self help groups of AIDS patients Ana chairs , Ana's visit to Omari's boyfriends such as MJ ( Darrin Dewitt Henson ) who is very much on the down low , and Ana's ultimate finding herself as a mother , a wife , a caregiver and a fine activist in doing her part to prevent the spread of the dread disease form which she suffers . The large cast is excellent with outstanding performances by Queen Latifah , Anna Deavere Smith , and Rachel Nicks and strong work by Evan Ross et al . The beauty of the film is the avoidance of grandstanding and overacting : the message is driven home quietly and with respect . It is a fine film that should be seen by everyone . Grady Harp
A Film Well Worth Re-Visiting	Pavel Chukhraj's award winning film THE THIEF is one of those special films that should be owned and revisited - like a favorite novel or poem or symphony . Chukhraj both wrote and directed this tale / fable set in Stalinist Russia , a story which encompasses the impact on a child of loss of a father in the war , the appalling living standards in the communes during the 1950s where multiple families and comrades shared space and survived the lack of privacy , and the extents to which people will go to survive what fate has dealt them and the sad sequelae that follow . The story opens on the cold steppes of Russia where Katya ( Yekaterina Rednikova ) gives birth to a son Sanya ( Misha Philipchuk ) in the mud of a country in disrepair in 1946 . Narrated by the adult Sanya we next see Katya and Sanya on board a train where they encounter a handsome soldier Tolyan ( Vladimir Mashkov ) , a seemingly gentle man who immediately bonds with the two ' refugees ' . The remainder of the story deals with the fact that Tolyan is a thief and causes disruptive moves of his ' family ' as he plunges them deeper into the hole of his crimes . At times he is harsh with Sanja , at time he is protective and instructive as a surrogate father , teaching Sanya the cruel rules of survival . He is finally imprisoned , Katya dies from an infection following an abortion , and Sanya grows into his teen years in orphanages , dreaming of his real father , wondering about Tolyan . They two make a final surprise encounter that leads to the ending of the story . The actors are exceptional , the supporting cast is particularly fine , and the cinematography and set designs are something beyond description . The eyes of Sanya ( those of Misha Philipchuk ) will haunt you and beckon return to this most impressive and touching film . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Impact of a Childhood Incident on Two Lads : The Spectrum of Extremes	MYSTERIOUS SKIN is a brilliant film made with tremendous courage and skill by the justly venerated Gregg Araki . His screen adaptation of Scott Heim's fine book is tough , insightful , balanced , challenging , and wholly successful . Few other directors , except possibly Gus van Sant and the Stephen M . Ryder / Michael Cuesta team ( ' L . I . E ' ) , would be brave enough to make a motion picture that presents a story that includes pedophilia and there find a moving study of developing sexuality in youngsters that becomes an important and sophisticated drama . 1981 , Hutchinson , Kansas . Neil McCormick ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) is 8 years old and finds fascination watching his rather loose mother Ellen ( Elizabeth Shue ) have sex with multiple partners . Neil is attracted to and desires the males Ellen brings to the house . He is a hang loose guy and the star member of a Little League baseball team coached by ruggedly handsome Bill Sage . Also on the team is a another 8-year-old , Brian Lackey ( Brady Corbet , ) who is from a neighboring town and is the easily distracted , bespectacled , non-athletic son of Mr and Mrs Lackey ( Chris Mulkey and Lisa Long ) , whose sole reason for being on the team is at the demand of his macho father . Some time lapses and Brian becomes convinced he has been abducted by aliens , the only way he can explain a loss of 5 hours of time and the presence of subsequent nosebleeds and fainting spells . In Hutchinson , Neil's attraction to his Coach results in a close friendship that just happens to evolve into sexual play , something Neil treasures as he has fallen in love with his Coach . Neil's best friends are Wendy ( Michelle Trachtenberg ) in whom he confides everything , and gay Eric ( Jeffrey Licon ) who happens to be in love with Neil . 1991 and the two boys have matured - Neil has become a full-time hustler , receiving pay for sex from older men cruising the park . Wendy moves to New York after gently warning Neil to always play safe in his ' occupation ' . Meanwhile Brian has grown up into a lad obsessed with outer space aliens and discovers a friend Avalyn ( Mary Lynn Rajskub ) through a TV show about people who claim to have been abducted by aliens . They bond much to Brian's now-single mother's concern , and Avalyn pledges to help Brian find the people who haunt his dreams about the missing five hours of his life at age 8 . Neil moves to New York and becomes a full time hustler , falling in with all manner of johns and becomes disturbed when he is confronted by an AIDS patient john followed by a sadomasochistic john . Wendy encourages him to leave hustling and find a ' real ' job . Neil's mother lovingly sends Neil tickets to return home for Christmas and Neil departs New York for a meaningful trip home . While Neil has been away Brian has discovered with Avalyn's help that Neil is the strange person in his nightmares , becomes friends with Eric - his connection to Neil - and Brian awaits Neil's return to Hutchinson to confront Neil and find his missing 5 hours of years past . Aided by Eric , Neil and Brian bond and Neil agrees to reenact a significant moment when they were eight years old , a transformative time that includes the coach and the effect of the Coach on the two boys ' lives . It is a powerful moment has monumental consequences . Araki directs this story with such grace and finesse that he makes each of the main characters not only credible but also multidimensional and lovable . There are no good guy / bad guy polarities in Araki's vision , only a spectrum that feels as real as the air we breathe . Every member of this large cast is superb , without exception , but the work of Joseph Gordon-Levitt anchors this film with wholly natural and brilliant acting . The others ( Brady Corbet , Michelle Trachtenberg , Elizabeth Shue , Bill Sage especially ) rise to the same level . Kudos also go to the young actors Chase Ellison and George Webster who portray Neil and Brian at the age of 8 . And the musical score underscores the action well . This may not be a movie for everyone , though I wish it were as seeing this film provides deep understanding into some of the sexual spectrum too many people refuse to address . It is a wholly successful film on every level . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
An Homage to an Island of Understanding	KEY WEST : CITY OF COLORS is a fine little documentary meant by its creator Talmadge to focus on the unraveling of a 1 and mile long Rainbow Flag down Dylan Street connecting the Atlantic Ocean with the Gulf of Mexico . The beauty of the film is not just the documentation of this 2003 event marking the 25th anniversary of the creation of the Rainbow Flag by Gilbert Baker , it is also a celebration of the little island of Key West and the people who live there . Creator Talmadge Hayward presents a brief history of this isolated island at the far southern tip of the United States ( closer to Cuba than to Miami ! ) , showing old photographs of the sponge business , the piracy , the smuggling , and the ever present cohabitation of African Americans , Hispanics , famous artists , wealthy , poor , gay and straight citizens . He then spends a great deal of the film in interviews with many of the residents - some lifelong some newly transplanted - who explain in warm and simple terms why this oasis for acceptance is an oasis for human kind . The colors are rich , the parade of the flag unfolding from ocean to gulf is magnificent and inspiring , and the message of peaceful coexistence serves as a goal for us all . Grady Harp
A Superb Film That Exceeds Expectations	This viewer rented the DVD form of American GANGSTER , having passed it by in the theatrical run , thinking that it was yet another ' crime and corruption in New York ' genre film . It was surprising to discover that this very long film ( just under three hours in the Unrated version ) is completely riveting and in a way far different than the usual gangster film : this story , based on real people as outlined in an article by Mark Jacobson ( transformed for the screen by Steven Zaillian ) , and while it has its share of grisly killings , it seems more concerned with the issues of integrity in the face of police corruption as embodied in the character of Richie Roberts , the etiology of the heroin use escalation following the Vietnam War , and the presence of a ' Black Mafia ' lead by one Frank Lucas . It is delivered with compelling gusto and intelligence by director Ridley Scott and has some of the best acting of the year . In other words , this is not a film to be lightly dismissed as a Hollywood retread , but instead it is a tense drama with many very fine points . Frank Lucas ( Denzel Washington ) follows the footsteps of his idol Bumpy ( Clarence Williams III ) who ' ran ' the Harlem streets , and when Bumpy dies , Lucas inherits his mantle . Lucas is wise , cunning , a gentleman , a powerhouse of ideas , and quickly finds a way to bring the best uncut heroin from the Far East to the streets of New York at a price that undercuts the other mobsters ' product . To establish his control he enlists his family , including his brother Huey ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ) , and rapidly becomes the kingpin of the streets . Simultaneously within the NYPD we meet Detective Richie Roberts ( Russell Crowe ) whose personal life is a mess but who , with his partner Lou ( Ted Levine ) discovers corruption in the NYPD and more particularly the Drug Enforcement sector of the police : Detective Trupo ( Josh Brolin ) works with the existing drug lords , grabs their drugs and money and then recycles both to his benefit . During a particular drug bust , Richie and Lou discover a stash of nearly a million dollars and turn the money into the police - a deed that makes the duo seem foolish and lose the respect of their fellow cops but establishes Roberts as a man who is committed to being a good detective . From these two separate studies the film weaves the development of each character and the interaction between Roberts and Lucas we know will take place . The end result may be known to those who followed the story as it developed in the 1970s , but for those for whom this true story is new information , the resolution of the film is fast-paced , thrilling , illuminating , and just plain fine cinema . Both Washington and Crowe are in peak form , as are those in the many small roles ( Ruby Dee , Chiwetel Ejiofor , Josh Brolin , Lymari Nadal , Carla Gugino , Cuba Gooding etc ) . This is more of a drama than an action film and while many may feel the final moments of the movie are weak , they do reveal the true ending of the story and say a lot about the narrow line between crime and criminal investigation . This is one of Ridley Scott's most successful films and one that will be around for many years as a model for the medium . Grady Harp
A Depressing Theme in Depressing Times : A Brilliant Film	Times are tough right now , mirroring the era of The Great Depression . Financial security is a ghost , friendships and relationships are tested by walking the razor edge of insolvency , and according to the ' popular movie ' polls the escape for many is in the darkened movie houses with comic hero or animal animated mindless safety net entertainment . Not so with the very brilliant film DAYS AND CLOUDS written ( with Doriana Leondeff , Francesco Piccolo , and Federica Pontremoli ) and directed with immaculate attention to detail by Silvio Soldini ( BREAD AND TULIPS , etc ) . Soldini recreates the global financial nightmare in the form of an examination of one family's fracture and consequences . It resonates despite the depressing story , offering a glimpse into the universal ties that bind us at this moment . Elsa ( Margherita Buy ) is graduating from Art History and Restoration school and seems to be a woman on top of her league , complete with surprise gifts and a celebration staged by her husband Michele ( Antonio Albanese ) . Waking up the morning after her congratulations party , Elsa is ill with a hangover , but even more shocked when Michele breaks the news to her that he has been out of work for two months , ashamed that he has lost his company and his job , hiding in the couple's boat during the day . There is no money left and the couple must face losing their home and are forced to take on menial tasks to survive . Pride prevents the couple from sharing their financial downfall with friends and with their one child - Alice ( Alba Rohrwacher ) who has elected not to pursue education in favor of waiting tables in a restaurant she has invested in with friends . The tension of keeping the secret to themselves causes mounting friction between the couple and events that would have never happened had they shared their misfortune with friends and family bring their relationship to a near fatal end . How they survive is touched , quietly and quickly and gently , at film's end . Soldini spares no pain in the responses of his characters ' misfortune , but at the same time he allows each character to emerge from ideal married tropes to completely human victims of financial ruin . Buy and Albanese are triumphant in their performances as the married couple caught in the crumble of decline . But there are fine performances by Rohrwacher and Fabio Troiano as her lover Riki , and Carla Signoris as Elsa's closest friend Nadia , and actors playing two ex-employees of Michele who provide a window of friendship in Michele's time of desperate need . The cinematography by Ramiro Cirita and the musical score blending opera and folk music by Giovanni Venosta enhance the motion of the film that though just under two hours in length , appears more succinct . Silvio Soldini has taken a topic that affects us all and polished into a film that is bound to touch every viewer deeply . Highly recommended movie from The Film Movement . Grady Harp
A Complat Artistic Triumph	' Tous les matins du monde ' is more an experience than a movie . The brainchild of director Alain Corneau , writer Pascal Quignard , and musician Jordi Savall this film integrates the visual with the historicodramatic and the music that created the idea and bathes it in the most sensuously beautiful cinematography of a period ( the 17th century ) by Yves Angelo who is given the sets and design and costumes by Bernard Vézat and Corinne Jorry that create image after image of masterful still life . The total integration of the work of these masters is the plinth on which the actors offer the memory of two famous composers in French classical music history . Saint-Colombe ( Jean-Pierre Marielle ) is a viol player and composer whose wife ( Caroline Sihol ) dies young leaving him to raise his two daughters young Madeleine ( Violaine Lacroix ) and young Toinette ( Nadège Teron ) whom he teaches his art of viol de gamba performance while sequestering himself and his girls in the countryside . Into their garden comes the young handsome son of a shoemaker , Marin Marais ( Guillaume Depardieu , the son of Gerard Depardieu ) who commits to learning the viol and eventually becomes a court musician only to fall in love with Saint-Colombe's elder daughter Madeleine ( Anne Brochet ) whom he eventually leaves for the glories of the court . As an adult ( Gérard Depardieu pere ) he realizes his error and returns to the Saint-Colombe sanctuary where he learns the true meaning of music as being something beyond words and thus something beyond human . In the course of this quiet little film and in the dramatic lighting of the production design we hear the music of Couperin , Lully , as well as compositions by Marais and Saint-Colombe . Jordi Savall supplies the incidental music that binds these works and offers the viol playing together with a talented group of musicians . The story is small , the dialogue sparse ( primarily Depardieu pere narrating his experience as Marais ) and for the novice the film could be slow . But the incandescent beauty both visually and aurally make this film a work of art that has not been equaled since its appearance on the scene in 1991 . It is a treasure . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Political Upheavals from a Child's Vantage	BLAME IT ON FIDEL ! ( ' La Faute à Fidel ! ) is an enlightening film from France's fine director Julie Gavras , a story based on the novel ' Tutta colpa di Fidel ' by Domitilla Calamai that addresses the effect of major political , philosophical , and activist effects on children . What makes this fine film unique is the child's stance on the adult politics : what may seem like exciting challenges for change of an existing corrupt system for the adults may indeed be an unwanted rearrangement of the wants and needs of children whose political acumen is less advanced than the need for order and consistency in everyday life . The story takes place in Paris in 1970 - 1971 . 9-year-old Anna de la Mesa ( Nina Kervel-Bey ) is a bright child who loves the divinity aspects of her Catholic school and enjoys the wealthy bourgeois elegance that surrounds her . She and her little brother François ( Benjamin Feuillet ) are informed that their aunt , an anti-Franco activist from Spain , will be moving in with Anna and her parents Fernando ( Stefano Accorsi ) and Marie ( Julie Depardieu ) . This critical move incites a change in philosophy for Anna's parents and soon they become enchanted with the rise of Allende in Chile and embrace the Socialist mindset and the promised feminist movement changes , moving from their elegant house into a small apartment and demanding that Anna give up her divinity studies ' because the are against Communist thought ' . As liaison in France for Chilean activists , Fernando holds strange and frequent meetings , disturbing further the life Anna loves . While little François is able to go along with the life changes , Anna rebels and refuses to alter her goals and needs merely for the ' fad ' of her father's frequent trips to Chile while leaving behind her mother to continue writing articles for the ( ' bourgeois ' ) French magazine Marie-Claire ! As the political upheavals increase Anna is more pugnacious in demanding her rights and the finest moments of the story demonstrate how a child can respond to political change and still find her ' place ' in the world that she chooses ! The pacing of the film is fast and captures the exhilaration of the foment ' round the world in the early 1970s . The cast is excellent , especially the children who have not had prior exposure to acting . The message is a potent one that deserves our attention both as informative of a political era and as a piece of veritas cinema from a fine director and crew . In French and Spanish with English subtitles . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Fragility and Strength : A Study of Family	' Brødre ' ( ' Brothers ' ) is a remarkable film from Denmark written by Anders Thomas Jensen and Susanne Bier who also directs this microscopic examination of the intricacies of family bonding , the significance of the blood ties between brothers , and the effects of one of the brutal realities of war on every individual member of a family . It is a tense drama made palpable by some phenomenal acting and direction . Michael ( Ulrich Thomsen ) and Jannik ( Nikolaj Lie Kaas ) are polar opposites as brothers : Michael is his father's dream , a man who is committed to his family , his beautiful and devoted wife Sarah ( Connie Nielsen ) with whom he has two daughters , while Jannik is a carefree drifter who drinks too much and refuses to have the stable life his parents expect of him . Michael is off to war in Afghanistan and is in a tragic helicopter accident and reported as dead . When Sarah is informed her world crumbles , as does the mental state of her father-in-law . Jannik hears the news while drunk but slowly awakens to the awful reality that his brother is gone and his sister-in-law and nieces need the support he has never been able to muster . In Afghanistan we discover that Sarah's inclination that Michael is not really dead is true : Michael has been captured by the Taliban and the experience as a prisoner changes him indelibly , breaking his shell of perfection and he becomes vulnerable and fragile . When Michael returns home to the surprise of everyone the dynamics that have reversed between the family and Jannik and the force that bonds Michael and Jannik is challenged and we are left to examine the fallout . The script in Danish is supplemented with excellent subtitles in English , but one wonders if the words are even necessary - so fine is the acting of every actor involved . Connie Nielson is a major force in cinema today , a brilliant actor whose spectrum of dynamics appears endless . Both Thomsen and Kaas are equally fine in their difficult roles . This is a superlative work , a psychological drama that strikes chords of familiarity on many levels . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Wit , the Charm , the Convoluted Machinations of the Inimitable Wilde	Oliver Parker has done a fine job in adapting Oscar Wilde's play THE IDEAL HUSBAND for this 1999 screen version . The transition is seamless with all the jabs and foibles of high society and political shenanigans mixed together to a fare-thee-well by a superb cast of fine actors . Dress this all in the sumptuous sets by Michael Howells , Rod McLean and Katie Lee and elegant costumes by Caroline Harris and embroider with a musical score by Charlie Mole and the result is one of the more satisfying period comedies to come along in a long time . As the rising politician Sir Robert Chiltern ( Jeremy Northam ) ascends in Parliament , secrets from his past are brought to bear from out-of-towner Mrs . Laura Cheveley ( Julianne Moore ) who in turn surfaces dalliances by Lady Chiltern ( Cate Blanchett ) and the Wildean man about town Lord Arthur Goring ( Rupert Everett ) under the ever-present eye of Sir Robert's sister Miss Mabel ( Minnie Driver ) . Political promises are made as blackmail but in the end everyone's little lies and pacts are placed on the table and all's well that ends well . The visual pleasure of the film is matched by the witty lines delivered by the top-notch cast in perfect Victorian Oscar Wilde fashion . The supporting cast , especially John Wood and Lindsay Duncan , are excellent . At times the plays of Oscar Wilde can delight the intellect alone : this version dazzles the other senses in every way . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Rise and Fall of Showmen	FROST / NIXON is one of the most successful screen adaptations of a play yet made . Perhaps that is due in part to the fact that the popular stage play by Peter Morgan was revised for the screen by the playwright , but it is also to the credit of director Ron Howard who managed to suffuse the ' play as movie ' with such atmosphere and feeling of spontaneity that the rather long movie seems to whisk by more rapidly than history ! Everyone knows of the infamous David Frost interview with Richard Nixon after Nixon had resigned office and was living in semi-seclusion in San Clemente , California , a bitter man struggling with the demons not only form the recent past but also form his childhood . Frost took on the challenge to bring the perpetrator of the Watergate scandal to his knees to satisfy the American public's need for retribution , and in conducting these interviews he did indeed achieve that . The story is as much a character study of Frost as it is of Nixon and the parallels writer Morgan uncovers makes the film far more than a quasi-documentary . This is real drama played for all it's worth . Frank Langella is unforgettable in his portrayal of Nixon as is Michael Sheen as Frost , each actor having played the roles on Broadway and transferring that depth of understanding to the screen . The surprise in this film is the use of the peripheral cast of characters - Kevin Bacon , Oliver Platt , Sam Rockwell , Matthew Macfadyen , and Toby Jones - a group of actors who light the darker corners of the story with aplomb . FROST / NIXON should be required viewing for every Political Science major in our schools - and hopefully will urge the nation to find a similar manner to bring closure to the strangely coincidental machinations of the recent Bush administration crimes . Grady Harp
Brother can you spare a dime . . .	Not being a fan of boxing I usually avoid movies about the sport unless there is some other reason for watching ( as in Million Dollar Baby , the initial Rocky film ) : the idea of watching two people beat each other bloody while crazy crowds cheer just doesn't register as entertainment ( the American gladiator syndrome ) . And while Cinderella MAN is clearly about the game of boxing , the true story of a real boxer , and contains long spans of beatings , this film is not so much about boxing as it is about the indomitable human spirit . It is also one of the finest films depicting the Great Depression in the 1930s that is a timely moment for us all to remember . . . In 1928 Jim Braddock ( Russell Crowe ) was a top contender for boxing fame , supporting his wife Mae ( Renée Zellweger ) and three children , wisely investing his earnings form his winning fights in the reliable stock market , devoting his time to his family and securing their future . Then 1929 happened and the stock market crash destroyed his savings and damaged his ability to fight , plunging him into the mass of poverty accompanied by nearly all Americans . Jim and Mae struggle to feed and clothe their children , and Jim is unable to win at boxing , becomes a ' loser ' , loses his license , and survives by daily showing up at the docks for the negligible chance of work . The times are bleak , and there is a moment when Mae shifts the children around to family members because they have no food or heat . But Jim's fight manager Joe Gould ( Paul Giamatti ) , himself surviving the bad times under a hollow facade , manages to gain Jim a fight . Despite his advancing age , broken hands , fallen reputation , and challenged ego , Jim manages to sustain his spirit and fights for the survival of his family . The rest is history . Ron Howard directs this story of a man's indomitable spirit with a fine sense of pacing and manages to hold this two and a half hour movie together without a moment of wasted time . With cinematographer Salvatore Totino and musical score writer Thomas Newman he manages to recreate the gray brown mood of the Great Depression better than any film to date . There are small supporting roles that truly shine : the grossly underused Paddy Considine , Craig Bierko , and Bruce McGill among them are beautifully carved creations . Russell Crowe gives his most understated , credible role and truly inhabits ' Cinderella Man ' ( his moniker ) as a desperately needed hero of the people of the Depression Era . Renée Zellweger once again plays , well . . . Renée Zellweger . The surprising acting comes from the solid support by Paul Giamatti . If he isn't nominated for best supporting actor then people aren't watching ! Cinderella MAN is a strong film , one that sweeps you up and carries you along - even if you don't care about boxing ! Grady Harp
The Original ' Carmen ' Realized	Even for the non-opera loving public the name CARMEN is immediately recognized as an opera by Bizet about a gypsy girl whose capricious loves destroy men . But as much as the opera is now considered a staple in every opera house repertoire , the real story of the wild gypsy lass as created by Prosper Mérimée in 1845 has never been told as well as in this cinematic version by the abundantly gifted Spanish director Vicente Aranda ( ' Juana la Loca AKA Mad Love ' , ' Amantes ' , ' If they tell you I fell ' , etc . ) . Incorporating the author of the novel as a main character seeking the story of Carmen from one of her lovers - José - provides just the right vantage for the story of this famous gypsy wild lady to be told . Carmen ( the amazingly beautiful and talented Paz Vega ) works in a cigar factory in Seville , a factory adjoining the military station where the very proper José ( Leonardo Sbaraglia ) is stationed . Carmen is tempestuous and in a fight instigated by a fellow factory worker bringing attention to the fact that Carmen is a gypsy , Carmen murders the co-worker and is arrested . José is physically attracted to the voluptuous Carmen and when Carmen flirts with him he consents to allow her to escape - his payback is the promise for a night of passion with Carmen . Carmen keeps her pact , providing José with his first sexual encounter , and José is doomed . His lack of military discipline results in his losing his rank and being imprisoned for a while , but at his release José encounters Carmen again , kills a fellow officer , and in fear runs off to the hills to live with the smugglers and gypsies that are Carmen's people . Many incidents occur to try the passionate bond between the lovers , but when Carmen's real husband is released from prison , destructive behaviors take over , behavior's that include Carmen's infatuation and affair with a bullfighter and the passion of Carmen and José comes to a tragic end . One factor that makes the story ( as adapted for the screen by director Aranda and Joaquim Jordà move so well is the role that Prosper Mérimée ( Jay Benedict ) plays : his questioning of José completes the story that Bizet's opera only outlines . The acting is superb , the cinematography by Paco Femenia and the excellent musical score by José Nieto contribute enormously to the success of this very fine film . This is a must for lovers of the opera Carmen , and a splendid action drama for those viewers who admire historical pieces . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Wisdom of Children	THE BOY IN THE STRIPED PAJAMAS is a ' compleat ' motion picture : even the title states the vision of the film in a subtly powerful way . Based on the excellent novel by John Boyne and adapted for the screen by director Mark Herman , this film has the courage to re-visit the Holocaust from the child's perspective . Not that it covers up the atrocities of that horrid event and time - quite the opposite : in electing to examine that period in history the stance is that of two children , one German son of an officer in Hitler's armed forces and one son of a Jewish captive living with his father in a concentration camp . The juxtaposition of these two eight year old boys separated not only by a fence but by an ideology neither of them can fathom the other's side makes for not only a brilliant film but also an unforgettable emotional experience . Bruno ( Asa Butterfield in an extraordinary performance ) is eight , his sister Gretel ( Amber Beattie ) is twelve and the two live with their parents in 1940 Berlin - father ( David Thewlis ) is a Komandant in Hitler's army and mother ( Vera Farminga ) is a popular socialite and loving mother . Father is ' promoted ' and will be in charge of a new ' position ' that means moving from their beautiful Berlin home to a ' home in the country ' . Though Bruno doesn't want to leave his friends the family does indeed move - to a cold house next to what Bruno perceives is a farm . The father is forbidden to share his role and the meaning of it with his family , but it soon becomes obvious by the smoke stacks spewing hideously smelling odors into the atmosphere that the ' farm ' is a concentration camp . The house servant Pavel ( David Hayman ) , though abused by the father , becomes Bruno's friend when Bruno sustains an injury : Pavel quietly admits to Bruno that despite his ' pajama ' uniform from the ' farm ' that he practiced medicine in the past . Bored , Bruno explores the forbidden area outside his home confines and finds a barbed wire electrified fence behind which sits Shmuel ( Jack Scanlon ) who becomes Bruno's friend . Neither lad understands the differences between them until Shmuel is sent into Bruno's household to polish glasses for a party : the armed forces chauffeur Lieutenant Kotler ( Rupert Friend ) beats the ' little filthy Jew ' for eating pastries Bruno has shared with him - a fact that the terrified Bruno denies . The mother discovers the truth about the ' farm ' and the smoke stacks and sinks into a depression , loathing that her husband is in charge of such atrocities . Gretel becomes transformed as a Hitler youth under the influence of the children's tutor ( Jim Norton ) and there are obvious philosophical schisms in the family . Bruno , regretting his treatment of Shmuel , continues to sneak food to him and plans to help his young friend save Shmuel's father : Bruno digs into the ' farm ' and the results bring the film to a terrifying and abrupt end . Both young actors give enormously moving performances and the manner in which Herman directs the action underlines the blur of perception many German's had about the reality of the Final Solution . But for what this viewer perceives as the reason the film sustains the powerful message it does is the manner in which it ends . There are no attempts to ' sanitize ' this film : it simply ends with a lightning bolt jolt that is one of the most powerful statements in all of the many films about the Holocaust . It is simply a brilliant masterpiece of a movie from every aspect of judging it - acting , direction , music , cinematography , editing - and why this film failed to make an impression on the critics and public ( and the Oscar folks ! ) when it was released in the theaters remains a conundrum . Highly recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
The Resurrection and Gradual Appreciation of a Classic Film	Steven Soderbergh knows his way around the bizarre , nearly impossible story lines and can translate them to film as few others can . OUT OF SIGHT is a little masterpiece of film-making despite the fact that when it initially screened in 1998 it seemed to slip by theatergoers ' attention . Based on the inimitable Elmore Leonard novel the story begs indulgence in credible situations but shines in quality of script and characterization and an atmospheric cinematic capturing of a dark , film noir comedy drama that grabs you by the head and holds you glued to the screen for the duration . The story is rather simple on the surface - a jailed bank robber escapes with the help of his buddy and plans a major hit only to encounter a federal agent in pursuit of the two who becomes the love interest portion of this strangely convoluted tail . Subplots and sidebars are sprinkled throughout Soderbergh's telling of Leonard's story , serving to keep our minds alert and mesmerized by the plot development . The cast is absolutely first rate with George Clooney , Jennifer Lopez and Ving Rhames especially pungent in roles that seem written for them . The strong supporting cast includes such fine actors as Steve Zahn , Catherine Keener , Don Cheadle , Luis Guzman , Isaiah Washington , Dennis Farina , and Albert Brooks . And for those who enjoy powerful sexual chemistry Clooney and Lopez offer some of their finest collaborative acting . This is a fine movie and one that doubtless in time will be considered and under appreciated Film Classic . Grady Harp
Family Implosion and the Fascinating Afterburn	IMAGINARY HEROES is one fine little film ! Written and directed by Dan Harris this story is classic theater , weaving comedy and tragedy together so tightly that the climax of the film takes your breath away . The Travis family is an odd bunch : no member is who each appears to be . Beginning with a suicide of the reluctant ' hero ' child swimming champion Matt ( Kip Pardue ) , the father Ben ( Jeff Daniels ) falls apart and isolates himself from his family and himself while the mother Sandy ( Sigourney Weaver ) turns to pot and rage and sarcasm , the daughter Penny ( Michelle Williams ) returns from school repulsed by her family's behavior , and the remaining son Tim ( Emile Hirsch ) takes the brunt of all of the above by avoiding his classmates , girlfriend , and teams with his neighbor Kyle ( Ryan Donowho ) to leap into drugs and sexual experimentation . Throughout the film Tim tries to hide bruises on his body that have a secret all their own yet lead his girlfriend to feel rejection , his mother to rage against the trailer park trash bully she believes is the cause , and finally open the window to the deep scars this family has suffered for years . Secrets and lies , here , and the resolution of them is painfully dramatic . This may be Sigourney Weaver's finest role , although Emile Hirsh , Jeff Daniels , Ryan Donowho , and Kip Pardue ( despite the brevity of his role ) all contribute top-notch performances . The story begins slowly and seems to meander and that fact may lose some viewers ' attention , but stay with this little powerhouse film and the impact of the work will stun you . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
How Dictators Rise . . . and Fall	THE LAST KING OF Scotland delves into the history of Ugandan leadership in the 1970s with gusto . One of the characters ( Sarah , the doctor's wife ) wisely observes that the crowds that fill the streets cheering as Idi Amin takes control from Milton Obote had the same reaction for the previous dictator and will have the same for the one who follows Amin . It is that aspect of this very fine film that hits home : the people desperately want to be ruled by a hero who will care for them and they maintain hope that each successive ' hero ' will be better . Director Kevin Macdonald bases his ' biography ' on the fictionalized novel of the same name by Giles Foden , transformed into a fine screenplay by Jeremy Brock . In order for us to understand the full nature of Idi Amin the story is told through the eyes of a fresh young Scottish physician Nicholas Garrigan ( James McAvoy ) who leaves his home looking of adventure and settles in Uganda as a mission doctor with Dr . David Merrit ( Adam Kotz ) and his beautiful wife Sarah ( Gillian Anderson ) . Garrigan learns his role quickly , is attracted to Sarah , but Sarah is wise and turns Garrigan's attention to the rising problem of the overthrow of the Ugandan government by the enigmatic Idi Amin ( Forest Whitaker ) . An incident occurs that draws Garrigan into Amin's favor and much against the advice of Sarah , Garrigan falls under the spell of Amin , becoming his official physician . The two men form a warm bond of friendship and trust and it is through this bond that we see the human aspect of Idi Amin , a man born poor but who has risen to power due much to the connection with the British he loathes . Gradually Garrigan sees the inner workings of Amin's mind , his madness and his ever-increasing brutality as he faces a world as the dictator who will control everything . Garrigan has an unfortunate affair with one of Amin's wives Kay ( the very beautiful and gifted Kerry Washington ) and as the country is falling under the slaughtering of Amin , Garrigan finally sees his implication in the rule and undergoes the turnabout effects of Amin's brutal strategy . The film ends very quietly with and reenactment of the incident at Entebbe that brought the world's attention to the heinous dictator of Uganda . Forest Whitaker is brilliant as Amin : he has obviously studied the man from newsreels and has been able to go beyond press reports to find the humble man who rose to power . McAvoy embodies the fictional physician and has far more screen time and a more sophisticated role than Whitaker and deserves more praise for this performance than he has received . The entire cast is excellent . For once a film about the violence that erupts too often in Africa pays more attention to characters and the gorgeous landscape of Africa than to fighting and killing : the evidence of Amin's mass murders is shown in photographs and the monstrosity his deeds is carefully focused on one particularly heinous death . The musical score by Alex Heffes uses native songs and rarely calls attention to itself - the mark of a brilliant composer . In the end THE LAST KING OF Scotland serves up a hefty slice of history altered by fiction to enhance the storyline but presents a case for how Amin came to power and the indomitable spirit of the people of Uganda despite the government . A fine film on many levels . Grady Harp
Isabelle Huppert : An Amazingly Fine Actress in a Glowing Role	LA VIE PROMISE is one of those films that begs multiple viewings : the cinematography is truly an art form here , the story though incredibly well told ( written by director / co-author Olivier Dahan with Agnès Fustier-Dahan ) requires integration of the viewer's thinking to capture the interstices of understated depth of the tale , an the acting of Isabelle Huppert is simply one of the finest moment on film . Rave review ? Yes , and well deserved ! Sylvia ( Huppert , who has never been more beautiful before the camera ) is a prostitute with an edge in Nice : she accepts her profession but acts with the elements of a seasoned streetwalker , always fully in charge of any situation . She is a woman with a past . She was once married to Piotr ( Andre Marcon ) in northern France ( Viale ) but had a nervous breakdown eight years ago concurrent with the birth of her son , the apparent reason for her fleeing to Nice . Now her teenage epileptic daughter Laurence ( Maud Forget ) appears , having been scattered through foster homes because her mother doesn't want her around , and Sylvia once again throws her out . But Laurence is hiding in Sylvia's flat when her pimp visits demanding money , and Laurence kills him . The mother and daughter then flee Nice afraid of the murder consequences and travel toward northern France by walking hitchhiking , bus - any means possible to avoid the police . Sylvia has decided to search for her eight-year old son and for Piotr , hoping they may afford them protection . Along the way they meet Joshua ( Pascal Greggory ) , an escaped convict who befriends them and encourages the growing bond between mother and daughter and eventually provides their arrival at their destination . The concluding moments of the story are the stuff of great drama and should not be revealed to the viewer . Throughout the film the integration of art photography and music enhances the mood of the story : Bach , Mendelssohn , Debussy and mixed with contemporary American blues and the mixture deserves a CD release . But the overriding star of this entire production is the radiant Isabelle Huppert , one of our finest actresses of today , in a role that , though nearly impossible to make credible , in Huppert's hands becomes a woman whose damaged psyche becomes permanently imprinted on our memories . It is a tour de force of acting of the highest caliber . Highly Recommended to lovers of Art Films . Grady Harp
Once in a While a Great Master Appears : Aleksandr Sokurov	Aleksandr Sokurov is as artist of the highest order . Not only does he understand his medium of film as his chosen avenue of creating art , he has the gifts of ingenuity , fresh creativity , and daring that make his works unique and stunning without any of the hoopla of ' experimental ' filmmakers : Sokurov honors his humanity and celebrates the miracle of life with every stroke of his hand . For those first introduced to Sokurov by viewing his extraordinary Russian ARK , a film of such importance historically as well as culturally and artistically that it stands alone : the conception and pre-camera preparation of covering 300 years of Russian history as played out in the Hermitage Museum buildings allowed this master to turn on the camera and record non-stop for the hour and a half of the complete story . The result is breathtakingly beautiful and enormously educational and enlightening - all that one can ask from a work of art . In FATHER AND SON Sokurov has distilled all of his energy into a quiet , rhapsodic , sensually elegant examination of the relationship between a father and son . There is not much story : there is much being said . A father ( the handsome and sensual Andrei Shchetinin ) lives with his son Aleksei ( Aleksei Nejmyshev - as handsome and virile and tender as Shchetinin ) in a rooftop flat in St . Petersberg . The father has had a military career and the son is now at age 19 in military school studying medicine along with his training . The mother is dead and the father and son are closely bonded by her absence and by an amazing love for each other . Aleksei has had a girlfriend ( the incandescently beautiful Marina Zasukhina ) but seeing that she is competing unsuccessfully for Aleksei's love for his father , she informs him she has found another love . Another young military student Sasha ( Aleksandr Razbash ) observes the strong bond between Aleksei and his father and being without a father , asks to move in their flat . Knowing that their time as unified family is limited by the way life passes , the two remain living alone . Aleksei has dreams that approach nightmares but generally deal with separation anxiety . The father is always there to console Aleksei after his dreams and gently encourages him to pursue the life that will bring him happiness . And that is really the bulk of the story , simple and short as it may sound . The brilliance of Sokurov's genius is in his means of telling this simple tale . He has elected to film using varying lenses and limiting his color spectrum to the sepia tones that resemble daguerreotypes come to life . His use of moments of Tchaikovsky melodies is sensitive and additive to the mood . His ability to linger over extended physical embraces between this father and son says more about love than any filmmaker before him . Part of the magic he creates is due to the physical beauty of the two actors embracing in the nude in the soft winter light of their rooftop flat . Some viewers have found this homo-erotic and are concerned about that aspect of a father with son . A pity , that , being concerned about homo-eroticism : the passion between father and son should be able to be viewed on every level for its richness , not for the fear of censorship . FATHER AND SON is one of the most beautiful artworks on film I have ever viewed . I felt the same about Russian ARK . I eagerly await viewing his MOTHER AND SON and all the other works that hopefully will flow from Sokurov's gifted mind and talent . Highly recommended . Grady Harp , March 2005
Blazingly Bleak Tale of Desire Vs Self Loathing	Heads up to HEADS ON : this is a story of the agonies of isolation self-induced by a tragically sexually confused young man . Few directors have the courage to write and present the truly dark side of sexuality and Ana Kokkinos deserves a tremendous amount of respect for daring to go where this film takes us . Ari ( Alex Dimitriades ) is a handsome , sensual young Greek man living with his proud parents and sister in Australia . They are part of a Greek conclave that holds to old country traditions : every male must marry a Greek girl and ' then he can do anything he wants ' according to Ari's mother . Ari is gay but cannot fully accept his lifestyle , preferring to have dangerous sexual assignations in the filthy alleys of his city . He pals around with Johnny / Toula ( Paul Capsis ) , his transsexual cousin , but avoids contact with him in public . Ari avoids life's realities ( he has no job , he is financially dependent on his parents , he cannot relate to his father's demands for his life , etc ) through extensive use of drugs and macho confrontations . His life is in a downhill spiral from which he is unable to escape . He attempts a heterosexual encounter but fails miserably . Even when the possibility of a real gay relationship is offered by handsome and masculine Sean ( Julian Garner ) he is unable to cope and destroys that blink of salvage . Ari's only devotion seems to be to his sister and his mother , neither of whom can extend a long enough arm to pull him from his quicksand life . Ari simply cannot cope with who he truly is . The acting in this fine film is excellent . The camera work by Jaems Grant is both artistically creative and successful in capturing the atmosphere of the story . Scenes that are edgy are handled with realism but never falter into the sensationalism range . Both Alex Demetriades and Paul Capsis give extraordinary portrayals of very tough roles . This is not a film for the squeamish , but it is a fine portrait of gay life in Australia and especially in the Greek community there . Grady Harp
Returning to 1900	Though this epic drama by Bernardo Bertolucci was originally released thirty years ago , revisiting the film , now available in its entirety of 315 minutes , is like reading a favorite old classical history novel . Bertolucci obviously loved this story of two disparate boys , one from wealth and privilege and the other from peasant worker status , born on the same day in 1900 who proceed through the year 1945 , bonded by country , intertwined by a developing friendship , and separating on political views . It is a film that examines capitalism versus socialism , Communism versus Fascism , two World Wars , and the effects that the changing political milieu of Italy had on the lives and loves of two men and their respective families . Of course this summation is far too brief for a film of over five hours in length , but the beauty of the film is the slow manner in which this set of ideas unfolds . The actors include not only such durable stars as Robert De Niro , Gérard Depardieu , Dominique Sanda , Burt Lancaster , Donald Sutherland , and Sterling Hayden , but also some of Italy's finest actors and an entire town of ' naturals ' , adding a sense of verismo to the film . The cinematography Vittorio Storaro is simply breathtaking and the musical score is by the inimitable Ennio Morricone . A mega-budget epic , the money seems well spent in retrospect . This is Bertolucci as an artist , a craftsman , an intellectual , and a committed politician . The DVD is somewhat hampered by the fact that the film was filmed in both English and Italian with two sets of dubbing choices and if the viewer has a problem with dubbing , then it is inescapable here . Despite this rather minor flaw , 1900 remains a film unlike any other in giving us a flavor of a country torn by the realities that the world faced in the first half of the 20th century . It is a long song , but well worth the time invested to absorb it all . Grady Harp
Fugitive Souls Connecting	James Ponsoldt is an impressive new talent whose gifts are well displayed in this very excellent small film , OFF THE BLACK . Ponsoldt is that rare combination of writer / director who has something unusual and significant to say and has the skills to tell his story with genuine sensitivity and with amazingly polished skill for one so new on the scene . In a small town anywhere in the US aging alcoholic Ray Cook ( Nick Nolte ) lives alone , spends his time making videotapes of himself in conversation with his son from whom he has been separated for years . He also is the umpire for the local baseball team , the pitcher for whom is a teenage lad Dave Tibbel ( Trevor Morgan ) , a boy whose mother deserted her family leaving Dave and his younger sister Ashley ( Sonia Feigelson ) in the care of functionless distant father ( Timothy Hutton ) , a man who would rather avoid any conversation or emotional support with his confused kids . Dave and two friends visit Ray Cook's house one night , empty trash on his lawn , scratch graffiti on his driveway and throw toilet paper streaming from the tree and TV antennae . Ray is sober enough to catch one of them - Dave - and makes a pact with the boy that he will not call the cops if Dave promises to clean up Ray's cluttered yard . Dave keeps his promise and gradually Ray and Dave warm to each other , each finding in the other the desperate needs to fill their empty lives - a ' son ' and a ' father ' . Ray convinces Dave to pose as his son at his high school reunion and the results of that experience coupled with numerous other incidents bond the two in one of the more tender love relationships ever captured on film . No , this film is not about physical attraction : it is about the kind of love that is a basic need in each of us and one that sadly is lacking in so very many lives today . Nick Nolte delivers a superb performance and it is refreshing to see him once again prove that he is a fine character actor . Trevor Morgan ( at age 20 ! ) is a revelation , that kind of actor who apparently excels in his craft intuitively . The supporting cast is likewise first class and the musical score by Claire Campbell , Alex Neville , and Brian Petway fits the film like a glove . Tim Orr's cinematography is so attuned to the story that it feels like the camera is another character . OFF THE BLACK is yet another little Indie film that came in under the radar and deserves so much greater an audience than it has had . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
An Epic Tale of Obsession and Possession and the Conflicts of Passion	' Non ti muovere ' ( ' Don't Move ' ) requires a lot from its audience - concentration , understanding about the extremes of control versus passion , and a willingness to stay with the nonlinear method of storytelling that novelist Margaret Mazzantini and screenwriter / director / star Sergio Castellitto have elected to use . This may be a little film about a few people , but the exposition of the story feels epic in its proportions ( over two hours in length ) and in the flamboyance of its production . In the end the demands of the film , in this viewer's mind , reward the viewer handsomely . The time is the present , a rainy day when a fifteen year old girl experiences a motorbike accident . The victim is immediately transported to the hospital where her head is shaved and she enters neurosurgery in what seems like a futile attempt to save her life . Coincidentally one of the prominent surgeons at the hospital is Timoteo ( Sergio Castellitto ) and he is informed by a staff nurse Ada ( Angela Finocchiaro ) that the victim is Timoteo's daughter . Devastated by watching his young child undergo surgery his mind flashes back to the time of her birth , a time when , married to a beautiful but cold woman Elsa ( the beautiful and talented Claudia Gerini ) , he has an affair with a common woman Italia ( an extraordinary performance by the gifted Penélope Cruz ) . Timoteo's usual controlled model surgeon and husband had thrown reason to the wind as he became obsessed with the raw passion of a sexually dominated relationship with the tacky appearing but genuine and emotionally abused Italia . Their relationship may have started with a rape but it develops despite the misgivings of both Timoteo and Italia into a profoundly felt love . Italia becomes pregnant , knowing that Timoteo is married : she is willing to take any part of him she can have as her only other memory of a relationship was an abusive one when her own father raped her as a young girl . Timoteo is conflicted : his wife Elsa becomes pregnant yet he wishes to run away with Italia . The wise but vulnerable Italia aborts her pregnancy and opens the door for the manner in which she works out her history with Timoteo . All of this story Timoteo confesses to his daughter Angela , lying comatose after her surgery . And all of the elements of the story coalesce . The performances by both Cruz and Castellitto won many awards and well deserved they are . Cruz proves that she is one of the most gifted actresses before the cameras today and it seems a shame that her Italian and Spanish movies acknowledge her gifts while her American movies place her in rather silly roles where her natural beauty seems to be more important . While this film is not without flaws , the power of becoming involved with the characters is sweepingly forceful . This may not be an easy movie to watch but committing to it intellectually is most rewarding . Grady Harp
A Message of Profound Importance Delivered by a Brilliant Ensemble	DOUBT succeeds on every level - from the fine transference of Patrick Shanley's play to the screen ( Shanley wrote the play , the screenplay , and directs ) to the atmospheric cinematography excursion through the Bronx of the mid 1960s to the detailed delineation of the characters by Meryl Streep , Viola Davis , Amy Adams , Phillip Seymour Hoffman , and even young Joseph Foster , to the careful editing . It would be difficult to imagine a finer cast , here cast in roles counter to their usual types , bringing such power to the poetry of Shanley's lines . The story is well known by now ( the dismissal of a progressive priest by a crotchety old Catholic school principal over a false rumor and all the ' doubt ' that brings into play in every character ) , but multiple viewings of this film intensify the humanity of each of the characters and demonstrate just how fine a writer Shanley is . The subject matter is difficult at first but the manner in which each of these superb actors ( under the guidance of Shanley's direction ) explore the effects of spite and loathing and forgiveness shares some of the finest ensemble acting in years . Recommended . Grady Harp
An Obsession with Belonging	THE KING is a film that is bound to polarize audiences : it is a disturbing , brilliantly written and executed film that viewers will love or hate . This viewer found the work mesmerizingly addictive , one of the more exciting works of cinematic art to come out this year . Writer Milo Addica ( ' Monster's Ball ' , ' Birth ' ) and director James Marsh have created an almost impossible story to tell and in selecting a cast of superb actors have managed to make the unthinkable thinkable . Elvis Valderez ( the sensitive and amazingly gifted Gael García Bernal ) is being discharged from the Navy as the story begins . He leaves his ship with his duffel bag and his rifle and begins his life as a citizen . After an awkward encounter with a prostitute he sets out on a bus to Corpus Christi , Texas to meet the father he never knew ( his mother was a prostitute who got pregnant on duty and gave birth to Elvis , living in poverty with her only child and then dying before Elvis entered the Navy ) . He arrives in Corpus Christi , buys an old car , drives to the church where is father Pastor David Sandow ( William Hurt in clearly one of his finest roles ) leads his tacky congregation in evangelical tones accompanied by his son Paul ( Paul Dano ' Little Miss Sunshine ' , ' The Ballad of Jack and Rose ' , ' L . I . E . ' etc ) playing the rock guitar . The pastor's family includes a wife Twyla ( Laura Harring ) who seems unhappy yet committed to the life of a pastor's wife , and young daughter Malerie ( Pell James ) , a plain Jane whose flat affect reads as one who desires sense and change from her world as a controlled pastor's daughter . Elvis confronts his father who does not know him and the pastor informs Elvis that his birth came at a time before he found Jesus : he lets Elvis know a bastard son is unwanted . Elvis meets Malerie , courts her , and despite all consequences Malerie and Elvis couple . Elvis works as a pizza delivery boy ( his boss Bruno is played by writer Milo Addica ) , rents a tacky motel room , and devotes his attentions to Malerie ( despite the fact that pastor David has forbidden his contact with the family ) . Malerie becomes pregnant and tells Elvis she loves him - probably the first time anyone has ever confessed love for him . Paul visits Elvis's motel room advising him to stay away from his family and Elvis pulls a knife on Paul accidentally leading to his death . Elvis covers his tracks , disposing of the body in the river . He only confesses his act to Malerie who prays with Elvis for God's forgiveness and lets it settle . The rest of the Sandow family think Paul has run away ( he and his father argued over one of Paul's songs not using the Bible as lyrics to a simple tune meant to convince the school and public of Intelligent Design versus Evolution ) and place signs throughout the town to recover him . Pastor David watches Elvis mop floors in the pizza parlor , tells him he wants to talk and the two take a ride - where the pastor teaches his ' son ' how to shoot with bow and arrow and tells him of his miscreant past . Elvis is invited to dinner at the pastor's home , then to live in Paul's room much against Twyla's feelings , and eventually the pastor introduces Elvis to his congregation as his ' son in sin ' . The family doesn't cope and the ending begins to spin out of control as events quite bizarre and lurid take place , seemingly all to the end of Elvis at last feeling he belongs to the father he never knew . To reveal the ending would greatly diminish the emotional impact of the film . Gael García Bernal handles this role with such emotional dexterity and finesse that at no time does he lose our compassion despite the horrors that engulf his plight . He is simply stunning in every way , an actor of tremendous depth and talent and a screen presence that is utterly commanding . Likewise William Hurt makes this Pastor understandable and despite his exceedingly religious right evangelical manner , he allows us to see motivation for his actions . Pell James , Paul Dano , and Laura Harring complete the quintet of players with polished skill . Director James Marsh knows exactly how to make this tough story work and his pacing and camera and music choices are exactly on target . For this reviewer this film is one that will linger in the mind indelibly . Such a shame that the subject matter may prevent a large audience from seeing one of the best films of the year . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Parallel Women's Secrets	Writer / Director Hilary Brougher has created a deeply involving and moving masterwork of film with her little independent low budget STEPHANIE DALEY . Brougher has courage to address an issue most people wish to submerge - that of unwanted teenage pregnancies and their consequences - and she does it in the form of a story that is so well woven and presented with such fine actors that she not only succeeds in bringing attention to her main topic , she also introduces us to two women whose lives , though separated by years of age , are significantly parallel . The result is a film that lingers in the mind long after the closing credits . Stephanie Daley ( Amber Tamblyn ) is a 16-year-old girl , shy , introverted and on the periphery of the social scene at high school until she meets a boy with whom she has consensual sex . The focus of her life changes as she grows in girth and at one dramatic point she gives birth to a fetus inside a bathroom stall which she secretly discards : no one knows Stephanie's secret . When she is examined , she is told she was pregnant , a fact which she denies . A forensic psychologist Lydie Crane ( Tilda Swinton ) , pregnant herself , is brought into the case to examine Stephanie and help the court decide the truth about what happened . As Stephanie opens up to Lydie , Lydie begins to acknowledge her own conflicts about her current pregnancy with her husband Paul ( Timothy Hutton ) : their first pregnancy resulted in a stillbirth and the current pregnancy began three months after that unresolved tragedy . When Lydie is not at her job she faces a world of people including a friend Frank ( Denis O'Hare ) who make her consider her own concepts of right and wrong . Lydie and Stephanie work together on the concept that ' the truth is what we believe ' . How these two women reach the conclusions they do is the part of the story that is best left unshared until the viewer experiences it alone . The cast is so fine that to single out one would be a disservice to the ensemble effect director Brougher has achieved . Tilda Swinton continues to finesse her extraordinary gifts as an actress and the young Amber Tamblyn makes a significant stride for her career . There is a small role for fine character actress Novella Nelson as Doctor Lynn that is a remarkable achievement . This is a film with a tough subject matter , handled with the utmost dignity , and makes a social statement while glowing as a superb independent film . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Another Aspect of Almodóvar's Talent , Deeply Impressive on its Own	Some viewers have placed this exciting film ' La Flor de mi secreto ' into the ' not up to standard ' Pedro Almodóvar films , a classification this viewer finds difficult to understand . Filmed in the luxuriously colorful palette ( especially the repeated use of the color red in every scene ) that has become his trademark , set with a musical score that includes Spanish song and guitar and flamenco , and introducing a wildly disparate group of over-the-top women played by a bevy of fine actresses - it all seems echt Almodóvar to me . No , there is not the outrageous side of gender bending that suffuses many of his more popular films , but there is a fine story that resonates throughout this remarkable movie that makes it very much worth the attention of lovers of Spanish cinema . The film opens during the credits on a woman being informed that her 16-year old son is brain dead as a result of a motorcycle accident and two young doctors ( including the irrepressible young Jordi Molla ) are trying to convince her to allow the respirator to be disconnected and the boy's organs harvested for donor transplant . Sad , tense though this opening is we discover soon enough that the trio are actors making a demo film for medical personnel to learn to deal with such possible family encounters ! Point : what appears to be a tragedy becomes a ' farcical depiction ' guided by a seminar leader Betty ( Carmen Elías ) . Flash into a different scene and we me Leo ( the immensely talented Almodóvar favorite Marisa Paredes ) , depressed to the extreme over the failure of her marriage to her beloved Paco ( Imanol Arias ) , a NATO ' soldier ' who took assignments as far from Leo as possible . Now Leo continues to write her trashy novels she has never had published while clinging to the Paco ( she wears his clothes , currently his boots ) she cannot recover . Noting that the boots are too tight she leaves her typewriter to flee into the streets to find someone to remove the painful boots and after frustrating encounters with less than helpful people , she turns to her best friend Betty ( yes , at a seminar ! ) who successfully removes the shoes . It seems Paco had an affair with Betty , a fact that further flails at Leo's pain . Betty assuages her by introducing her to a literary editor Ángel ( Juan Echanove ) who asks Leo to come on staff as a critic - most particularly to review the ' example manuscript ' Leo has presented him in applying for the job . The reaction is predictable and Leo is at odds with how to continue her life . Along the way of the story Leo gets advice from her hilarious mother and sister ( Chus Lampreave and Rossy De Palma in typical Almodóvar creations ! ) and from her maid Blanca ( Manuela Vargas ) and Blanca's son Antonio ( Joaquín Cortés ) who perform Spanish ballet as a side line ( and incredibly well , too - with some wonderful flamencoesque moments of artistic relief ) . Coincidences happen that allow Leo to ultimately catch a new perspective on her life without Paco - in a most unexpected way . So what is not to love about this Almodóvar opus ? For this viewer , absolutely nothing . It is a delight from beginning to end and deserves reconsideration in placement in the gifted director's echelon of works . Highly Recommended .
An Overlooked Jewel of a Film : Among the Finest of 2005	With astonishing grace and insight first time director Phil Morrison brings newcomer writer Angus MacLachlan's script JUNEBUG to quiet realization and the result is one of the more subtle and fine cinematic accomplishments of the past year . The study of a fractured family unit and the manner in which each disparate member functions may have been told before ( ' In the Bedroom ' comes first to mind ) , but rarely has the polarity of atmospheres between the family of origin and the prodigal son been so sensitively scrutinized . The successful Chicago art dealer Madeleine ( Embeth Davidtz ) works in a gallery featuring Outsider Artists ( artists without formal training who make art from the heart sans history ) and discovers the fascinating racist / sexually informed / visionary art by one David Wark ( Frank Hoyt Taylor ) who happens to live in North Carolina near her new husband George's ( Alessandro Nivola ) home town . George left his little hick town to find success in the big world of Chicago , married the elegant Madeleine without inviting his family ( as they might embarrass him in their crude state ) , and continues to distance himself from them . But Madeleine coaxes George into driving to North Carolina to seal the deal of adding Wark to her stable of artists . Once in North Carolina Madeleine pursues Wark , meets George's family whom she finds warm and loving , leaving George to address his reasons for distance . George's mother Peg ( Celia Weston ) is simple but loving ; his father Eugene ( Scott Wilson ) is rather useless except that he like to wood carve ; his brother Johnny ( Benjamin McKenzie ) is a disturbed angry high school dropout who resents George's upward mobility and all that it represents ; and his very pregnant sister-in-law Ashley ( Amy Adams ) , who though unsophisticated , having dropped out of high school because of her pregnancy , contains more joie de vivre than any character ever encountered in film . Ashley emulates Madeleine , finding in her all of the dreams of life - beauty , wealth , success , personality . Each of the family members have moments with George and Madeleine that gel the differences and the common threads in a family where often little is said but much is felt . The story climaxes with Ashley's delivery and the effect that incident has on the entire group . The cast is exceptional with Amy Smart delivering one of those poignant perfect performances that covers the entire gamut of emotion : she certainly should be nominated for Best Supporting Actress if not Best Actress for this outstanding role . Embeth Davidtz is superb as the elegant but vulnerable Madeleine , Alessandro Nivola may not have many lines but says so much with his facial and body language that he is the pinnacle of understatement . Likewise Celia Weston , Scott Wilson , and Frank Hoyt Taylor offer pitch perfect performances . This is definitely an ensemble movie . Director Morrison allows the camera ( cinematographer Peter Donahue ) to linger listlessly on the countryside of the South in a manner that speaks volumes about the pace of life in the little towns away from the big city and adds to the development of George's change of heart after his experience at home . The musical score by Yo La Tengo sets just the right mood . This is an extraordinary film that despite its small flaws of a first film outing deserves wide attention and promises us that there is an important new talent on the rise in Phil Morrison . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Beautifully Written Story Brought to Sparling Life	BONJOUR , MONSIEUR SHLOMI is simply a wonderful film ! Writer / Director Shemi Zarhin has created a story unlike any other and cast it with such consistently fine actors that it remains a puzzle to me that this film has not become an audience favorite throughout the world . It is intelligent , emotional , edifying , and warm , entertaining , and in all categories it is a winner . Shlomi ( Oshri Cohen , in a brilliantly understated performance ) is a 16-year-old lad who takes care of his highly dysfunctional family : his mother ( Esti Zakheim ) is about as distasteful a shrew as ever concocted and in a constant state of ill temper because of her husband cheated on her , and because she is stuck working double shifts to support her ailing father-in-law ( Ariek Elias , who as Shlomi's grandfather is a bright , funny , wise , loving old man who deeply cares for Shlomi ) ; a married sister Ziva ( Rotem Abuhab ) who periodically moves back in to the house because of constant spats with her husband who doesn't help her care for their infant twin sons ; his brother Sasi ( Assi Cohen ) whose life is loud electric guitars , braggadocio about female conquests , and the favorite son of his mother . Stir this mixture and the result is the penultimate dysfunctional family unit . Shlomi cooks gourmet meals for them , shops , cleans house , runs errands , bathes and cares for this grandfather and in general leads a life of submission to a family that views him as a ' retard ' . Shlomi longs for a girlfriend and practically fails his school because of his lack of time devoted to caring for his family and a lack of concentration . Serendipitously his math teacher Begin ( Nisso Keavia ) notes his natural mathematic genius on a discarded test , and with the aid of the headmaster ( Yigal Nair ) the two encourage him to be tested and discover that he is a genius ( ? with dyslexia ? ) and arrange for him to try for a special school in Haifa . Shlomi's mother will hear none of it but between fights with Shlomi's absentee father ( Albert Iluz ) and confrontations with the teacher and headmaster they finally consent to his testing for the school . Meanwhile Shlomi discovers a girl his age Rona ( Aya Koren ) who has moved in next door and gradually the two become intertwined in a physical and intellectual relationship . Always in the background is the support of Shlomi's grandfather , and when the grandfather dies , Shlomi sets off on the journey to live his life for himself , to realize his gifts , to find his happiness . The manner in which the family comes to grips with this is the peak of the movie and need not be revealed for the sake of loosing the power of the message . The film is beautifully photographed , the musical score is creatively lovely , and the final result is one of exaltation of the human spirit . Highly recommended on every level . In Hebrew with English subtitles .
An Unstintingly Realistic Examination of the Final Days of Adolf Hitler	DER UNTERGANG ( DOWNFALL ) is not only a brilliant film in its close-up dissection of the mind of a lunatic , it is an important historical document that at last gives us as realistic view as possible of the last days of the Third Reich . Written by Bernd Eichinger who based his screenplay on memoirs by Traudl Junge and Melissa Müller ( ' Bis zur letzten Stunde ' ) and Joachim Fest , directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel , and acted by an all-German cast , this is about as frightening as a story can get - yet a seemingly authentic one . Bruno Ganz gives a searingly vivid performance as Hitler , and while some are enraged that the film shows too much of the human side of Hitler ( as though this could make him seem less horrid ! ) , Ganz finds that fine line of presenting Hitler as a delusional underachiever who will go to any lengths to fake a ' caring man ' to some while always being short-fused into irrational rages to others . The film takes place in the final 12 days of Hitler's life while he is living in an underground bunker surrounded by many of his fellow ghouls as Russian troops rapidly advance to stamp out his existence . There is condescension as well as blind devotion among the ranks . Hitler marries Eva Braun , informs his confidants that he will never surrender ( nor should they ) and then proceeds on his plans to commit suicide with Eva , having extracted a promise that their bodies be burned beyond recognition to prevent desecration by the Allies and encroaching Russians . How this grand final plan is carried out is terrifying , especially watching Frau Goebbels ( Corinna Harfouch ) sedate then poison all her children , and quietly placing herself in front of the firing squad . The spectrum of the horror of Hitler's atrocities is not diminished by this so-called ' humanizing ' film : quite the contrary - Bruno Ganz inhabits the role with a verismo that makes Hitler even more terrifying in being a credible mind gone mad . The entire cast of this claustrophobic underground bunker team is superb and the direction makes the 156 minutes speed by . The minimalist musical score by Stephan Zacharias lends just the right tone of eeriness and the cinematography by Rainer Klausmann ( shot in St Petersburg and Munich ) is stunning . The film opens and closes with the elderly Traudl Junge ( the ' secretary ' author of the book on which the film is based ) commenting on the terrible tragedy in which she took part . The effect is devastating . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp , August 05
Revisiting ' Dancing at Lughnasa '	Given the luxury of owning films via DVD collections offers the opportunity to revisit at will the works the viewer found worthy of purchase . Such is the case with the luminous ' Dancing at Lughnasa ' , a 1998 release by director Pat O'Connor to the tunes of a lilting screenplay by Frank McGuinness based on Brian Friel's 1990 play of the same name . Though low key and not a popular hit at the box office , this is one of those rare films that combines a very simple tale about common folks brought to life by a cast of extraordinary actors . The story is set in Donnegal , Ireland in 1936 ( just before WW II ) choked the world ) and simply relates the life of a family of five single sisters and the love child of one of them . The action is spare , centering on the visit of their brother home from the missionary work in Uganda inalterably changed from the experience , on the loss of job of the supporting eldest sister , and the return of the errant father of the love child for the summer , and other daily challenges . The stresses and strains these small events play on the sisters is eventually climaxed in the dancing festival that marks the Feast of Lughnasa ( a persistent pagan celebration that challenges the very Catholic foundation of the Irish community ) , a compelling event that parallels the returned priest brother from the mission fields where he has gained insight into the desperate need for community , happiness , dancing and celebration as the essential needs of humankind . The cast is flawless : Meryl Streep is superb as the elder sister bitterly bound to holding the family together at all costs , Catherine McCormack as the mother of the lovechild , Kathy Burke , Sophie Thompson and Brid Brennan ; Michael Gambon as the deranged returned brother ; and Rhys Ifans as the errant father of the child . They interact and play like fine chamber music . The brilliantly green and gorgeous countryside is captured eloquently by Kenneth MacMillan . In every aspect of production the film fits like a tightly intertwined puzzle . It simply glows . Revisiting ' Dancing at Lughnasa ' is an even finer trip than the first exposure . Highly Recommended .
A Quietly Brilliant Little Film About Learning How To Be Loved	By now everyone knows the story of this superb little film , a road film unlike any other that dares to approach the distances we create from each other in an attempt to find ourselves , learn to love ourselves , and thus be able to love others . It is a powerful film balanced with comedy and drama in just the right proportions to keep it sailing along above the speed limit . Bree ( Felicity Huffman ) is in the final stages of her transsexual transformation , having completed the cross-dressing requirement , the hormones , the facial surgeries , and the psychological counseling with Margaret ( Elizabeth Pena ) , and is ready for her long awaited gender transformation surgery . Abruptly she receives a call from New York authorities , who have in custody a lad arrested for hustling and drugs , who claim Bree to be the father . Unwillingly at first ( her surgery date is could be affected ) she is convinced by her therapist Margaret that she must confront this part of her past before her doctor will sign for the surgery . She flies to New York , claims her son Toby ( Kevin Zegers ) without allowing Toby to know the truth , and acting the role of a church lady is ultimately committed to driving him to California . A quick stop in Kentucky reveals Toby's sad background ( his mother committed suicide and his stepfather abuses him sexually ) , and Bree is determined to rescue Toby from all this . The trip to California is interrupted by a stop with Bree's grossly dysfunctional parents and sister ( Fionnula Flanagan , Burt Young , Carrie Preston ) who though ashamed of Bree's life choice are taken with their ' new ' grandson . Toby has been a difficult passenger , doing drugs , seeing Bree with her male genitals showing , witnessing a Mary Kaye party with transsexuals , etc , but never the less he and Bree have bonded . When Toby discovers that Bree is actually his father he naturally rebels , only to realize after Bree has had her surgery in California that Bree is the only family he has . Huffman gives a bravura performance as Bree , never stepping over the line of farce , always attentive to the role-playing that has usurped her life , always able to find the gentle comedy that occurs with Toby , make her introduction to a male suitor Calvin ( Graham Greene ) who offers the two a ride once their car is stolen a tender moment of vulnerability , and yet is able to show us the angst of the transsexual dilemma in a powerfully touching scene with the fine Elizabeth Pena . Likewise , Kevin Zegers ( a fine young Canadian actor with a long list of credentials in TV and film ) is wholly credible as a lost youth with deep and longstanding emotional needs hiding behind a mask of street hustler . And the supporting cast is exactly that - brilliantly supporting . But the bulk of the kudos go to writer / director Duncan Tucker . The screenplay is superbly written and the direction of this talented cast is so well focused that there isn't a wasted moment of film . This is a story about the need for belonging , for being true to yourself , for loving yourself so that you can truly love others . Many fine lessons here , and delivered in a package that is absolutely irresistible . Highly recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
A Successful Exploration and Cinematic Investigation of an Artist	I'M NOT THERE is clearly not a movie for everyone . The concept of the film is experimental , the execution of the ' documentary ' is actually an amalgam of the aura and influence of one man in the music world instead of a linear history of a famous singer / poet , and the goal seems more to find the effect of Bob Dylan's chameleon persona on those people with whom he came into contact than it is to relate the story of a fascinating and important American artist . Writer ( with Oren Moverman ) and Director Todd Haynes ( ' Far from Heaven ' , ' Velvet Goldmine ' ) has gathered images , memorabilia , fragments of interviews , and responses from acquaintances and from these he has pieced together a quilt-like panorama of the enigmatic , elusive , ever-changing Bob Dylan . The result is not meant to be a precise history , but instead a ' feeling ' for the man who so profoundly influenced American music in the 1960s . Haynes selected several top actors to inhabit various aspects of Dylan's life and times . The Narrator for this both black and white and color film is symbolist poet Arthur Rimbaud ( Ben Winshaw ) who through a series of comments opens the vignettes that reflect Dylan . Eleven - year-old Marcus Carl Franklin radiates the energy of Woody Guthrie when he is suggesting the early formative influences of Dylan . Christian Bale becomes ' Jack Rollins ' , among the closest of the actors to impersonate the performing Dylan . Heath Ledger embodies the love - life side of Dylan's character with the Claire of Charlotte Gainsbourg while Cate Blanchett comes closest to showing us the inverted personality as Jude Quinn - the name assigned to the character who most resemble Dylan's appearance and talk and physical reactions to the public , the press , and the audience . And as an homage to Dylan's preoccupation with history , the final version of Dylan becomes Billy the Kid ( Richard Gere ) in the surreal town of Riddle . Other important characters pass through this musical mélange - Julianne Moore comments as Alice Fabian , a Joan Baez-type figure , Michelle Williams becomes Coco for a moment , and Bruce Greenwood has double roles suggesting influences from the height of Dylan's career to his old age . Throughout the film the music of Bob Dylan pervades the soundtrack , the tunes as important as the timely poetry of his lyrical output . The film is as strange as the man who inspired it , and Todd Haynes and his amazing cast of actors give us an impressive slice of our history as well as an appreciation of the aura of the strangely haunting Bob Dylan . In extended featurettes on the CD the director and cast give wonderful insights both into the character of Dylan as well as the concept of creating this amazing film . For some , watching these introductions BEFORE watching the actual movie may enhance appreciation of this art piece . Highly recommended - but the audience must understand this is not a routine movie ! Grady Harp
Finding Self	AFTER THE WEDDING ( ' Efter brylluppet ' ) is a brilliant work , a two hour synthesis of life that demands our full attention and rewards that attention with some of the finest ensemble acting , directing , dialog and message that we have come to expect from Danish writer / director Susanne Bier ( Anders Thomas Jensen is also credited with the story concept ) . It is a film that raises difficult questions and situations and somehow pulls us into a world of damaged people about whom we genuinely care . Jacob ( a stellar performance by Mads Mikkelsen ) is a solitary soul who has found a niche in India as a teacher and caregiver in an orphanage . When he is informed that a wealthy donor is considering being a benefactor , Jacob leaves the children he loves to return to his native Denmark to the home of the potential donor Jørgen ( another fine performance by Rolf Lassgård ) and his wife Helene ( Sidse Babett Knudsen ) : in Jacob's past he had been lovers with Helene while both were in India ) . A major event is in the offing - the marriage of 20-year-old Anna - Stine Fischer Christensen - ( Jørgen and Helene's daughter ) and feisty Christian ( Christian Tafdrup ) . The only character who does not seem to have a secret is Jørgen's mother ( Mona Malm ) who suffers from mild dementia . It should be a happy occasion , but after the wedding old wounds are uncovered , long secrets are discovered , and nothing is as it seems . Jacob , now confronted with strange realities , longs to return to his Indian orphanage , but Jørgen manipulates his gift of money in a way that uncovers even more secrets . The multiple surprises that occur rapid fire keep the plot and character development spinning until the film closes with such grace that the audience is left stunned . As the current barrage of summer movies assault our senses , making us wonder about the mental hunger for films less than challenging , along comes the release of this magnificent work and reassures us that the era of superb cinema has not dissolved into cartoons . AFTER THE WEDDING is a perfect as a film gets . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Bergman and the Joys of his Film Concerts	For many years the films of Ingmar Bergman have haunted us , films that dare to enter territories untouched by others , peopled by actors of consummate skill , extended monologues both spoken and silent , and secret doors into the souls of some of the most fascinating characters created for the screen . SARABAND is no exception : this theme and variations is written and performed and directed to perfection . It leaves the viewer speechless . Marianne ( Liv Ullmann ) is a successful lawyer in her 60s who returns to her ex-husband's solitary retreat just for a visit . Her ex-husband Johan ( Erland Josephson ) , since remarried and re-divorced , has a son Henrik ( Börje Ahlstedt ) by another wife who lives nearby on the lake : Henrik is a musician and writer and lives with his daughter Karin ( Julia Dufvenius ) , teaching her cello in preparation for an audition at the music conservatory . What Marianne finds after thirty years absence is that Johan and Henrik are on bitter terms , that Karin is frustrated with her demanding teacher / father , and that the recurring ' saraband ' movement of this story is the mutual adoration and mourning of Anna , Karin's mother and Henrik's deceased wife . Marianne and Johan muse over their past lives , discovering that despite circumstances they still love each other . Marianne is able to open the hearts of Karin , Johan , and Henrik and provide a tender voice that brings a degree of resolution to a family broken . As with all of Bergman's films it is not the story content as the method in telling that makes his films so indelibly and quietly passionate . Everything is understated : solo sequences are played with Bach's solo cello suites , and when two or more characters interact the music becomes Brahms and Bruckner . This is an elegant pastoral about looking into the mirror of our souls in old age and finding both the beauties and the missed opportunities of a life now passing toward the end . Each of the four actors is splendid , though watching Liv Ullmann in her native tongue is a renaissance of memory of all the fine work this extraordinary actress has done . Bergman gives us an elegy not a eulogy and one can only hope for more . Highly recommended on every level . In Swedish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Murder and Its Implications on a Town and Families	JINDABYNE is a disturbing , somber little film from Australia - a film with profound observations about ethics , racism , the fragility of marriage , the vulnerability of children's minds , and the desperate need for respect for beliefs and peoples outside the mainstream . Beatrix Christian adapted the screenplay from one of Raymond Carver's brilliant short stories , ' So Much Water So Close to Home ' : it has been said that Carver had ' the ability to render graceful prose from dreary , commonplace , scrapping-the-bottom human misery ' and this story embodies all of those traits . As directed by Ray Lawrence with a cast of excellent actors , JINDABYNE will likely become a classic movie - if enough people will take the time and commitment to see it . In a small town called Jindabyne in Australia a group of four men depart their families for a fishing trip : Stewart Kane ( Gabriel Byrne ) , Carl ( John Howard ) , Rocco ( Stelios Yiakmis ) and Billy ( Simon Stone ) . While fly fishing in the back country , Stewart discovers the nude , murdered body of a dead Aboriginal girl Susan ( Tatea Reilly ) floating in the water , calls his buddies to witness the ugly act , and together they decide to wait until their fishing trip is over before reporting it . When the men return home , concerned and embarrassed about their actions as they report to the police , the town is outraged at their thoughtless behavior . Yet more outraged are the wives of the men - Carl's wife Jude ( Deborra-Lee Furness ) , Rocco's mate Carmel ( Leah Purcell ) , Billy's ' wife ' Elissa ( Alice Garner ) and , most of all , Stewart's wife Claire ( Laura Linney ) - a woman with a history of mental instability for whom her husband's insensitivity becomes intolerable . Claire sets out to ' right ' things with the Aboriginal tribe who are devastated at the murder and the disregard for another human being's life that the fishermen have demonstrated . The town and the families ( including children ) are fractured by the deed - and the strange aspect is that no one appears concerned to discover the murderer , the greater ' crime ' has been against human decency . In a powerfully moving final memorial for the dead girl every one is forced to face the dirty aspects of the recent events and come to a degree of understanding and acceptance . Filmed in the beauty of the Australian countryside with camera technique that feels intimate and almost spying in nature , the story unfolds so naturally that the audience is made to feel a part of the dilemma at hand . The acting is first rate : Laura Linney once again proves she is one of our finest actresses , and Gabriel Byrne makes his odd character wholly believable . The supporting cast ( especially the women ) is outstanding . This is a sleeper of a film that deserves a wide audience , an audience ready to commit to thinking and reacting to an act and subsequent public response that , while difficult to swallow , is essential information if we are to exist in the society we have created . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Connecting : Life through a child's eyes , longingly	In a year of a true mixed bag of films and now that the year has officially passed , ME AND YOU AND EVERYONE WE KNOW remains one of the most refreshing features of 2005 . Written , directed , and starring one Miranda July ( a performance artist ) , this truly unique film has many firsts in its message , its manner of storytelling , its vision , its honesty , and its perception of life as we are currently living it . It is a little gem . There are about five stories delicately laced together in this examination of a spectrum of emotionally isolated people and their attempts to connect to each other . Miranda intentionally keeps these remarkable stories separate ( reflecting her concept that we have arrived at a state where we all are sadly alone longing to belong ) , and yet each of the characters knows each other - by proximity of living space , working space , street corners , chatrooms , and bus benches . Richard Swersey ( John Hawkes in a deeply multidimensional performance ) has recently lost his African American wife because she was bored , leaving Richard and their two sons , 14-year-old Peter ( Miles Thompson ) and 7-year-old Robby ( Brandon Ratcliff ) to move to a new apartment . Richard , desperate for attention has set fire to his hand , trying to impress his boys and deflect the pain of losing his wife . He is a simple shoe salesman and ties to make a happy world for his boys . Christine ( Miranda July ) , a video artist with strange techniques makes her living driving Eldercab , taking old people shopping . On one of these excursions she encounters Richard at his shoe store , is smitten by him , longs to be attractive to men in general and Richard in particular and goes at great lengths to " connect " to the reluctant Richard . Peter and Robby get to know their neighbors : Rebecca ( Najarra Townsend ) and Heather ( Natasha Slayton ) are under 18 with foaming hormones who flirt with Richard's co-worker Andrew ( Brad William Henke ) which drives him to leave porno notes to them on his Venetian blinds , and who eventually introduce Peter to a game of ' differential diagnosis of fellatio ' ; Sylvie ( Carlie Westerman ) who occupies her lonely life by preparing her hope chest for her ideal marriage of the future . They entertain themselves by entering chatrooms , a diversion Robby quickly masters and lines up an online date through his hilarious ideas of seduction ! Christine devotes her own time to making her art and in attempting to get noticed she approaches a gallerist who can't be bothered but who re-enters the story further in the film in a way that demonstrates that she is not the cold , self-sufficient woman she appears to be . There are far too many moments of exquisitely detailed glimpses of how each of these wonderful characters become momentarily tangent then bounce away like random atoms in orbit to quickly to even begin to relate . But that is the joy of this film . Miranda July plucks little gems from the air , disperses them throughout the film , leaves most hanging because that is the way we are living , and yet leaves us feeling that the vision of an untainted tabula rasa child's stance is beautifully fresh . Each member of this very strong cast gives performances of complete pleasure : July knows her vision and describes it well . Highly Recommended for those who long for fresh and stunning independent films . Grady Harp
Accountability and the Need for Passion in an Alienating World	THE DYING GAUL , written and directed by Craig Lucas ( writing credits include ' Longtime Companion ' , ' Prelude to a Kiss ' , ' Reckless ' ) is a brilliant little film that stirred comment and appreciation during its unfortunately very brief run in the theaters ( as one of the film's characters comments " Most Americans hate gay people . If they hear it's about gay people , they won't go . " ) And this in a year when films such as ' Brokeback Mountain ' , ' Transamerica ' , and ' Capote ' drew focus . As the oft-used phrase states , ' Go figure ' . The story is a bizarre triangle of interaction among three very bright , enlightened , yet passionately isolated people whose coming together is the stuff of tragedy on the grand scale . Robert Sandrich ( Peter Sarsgaard ) is a grieving screenwriter ( his lover recently died from complications of AIDS in a manner secretly gnawing at Robert ) . His most recent screenplay ' The Dying Gaul ' about a gay couple - one with AIDS - is a tribute to his lover , and while it is a brilliant script and is taken on by a top film producer Jeffrey Tishop ( Campbell Scott ) , Jeffrey offers to buy the script for a million dollars IF Robert re-writes the script to make the couple a heterosexual one ( see above for his reason ) . Robert at first refuses to ' sell out ' but eventually gives in and does the re-write . Jeffrey is married to a very bright ex-screenwriter Elaine ( Patricia Clarkson ) who reads Robert's script , loves the original and becomes so obsessed with the script and with Robert that she plunges into an investigation of Robert's life . Compounding the intrigue is the fact that Jeffrey begins to fall in love with Robert and Robert is so needy emotionally that he responds : the two become lovers . Elaine enters Robert's private life via chat room discussion where she poses as the voice of Robert's dead lover and inadvertently discovers secrets that eventually bring the trio to a devastating climax : secrets are revealed that demand accountability and each character is permanently altered . Craig Lucas , in this his first directorial outing , proves to be an artist with style , with vision , and with guts to put tough material into visual form . The pacing is tense , the ideas are well developed from the meaning of the title to the cruelty of the machine mode means of conversation via email chat rooms . He handles sexuality variations as well as any director today . He of course is blessed with a trio of superlative actors : Sarsgaard , Clarkson and Campbell give extraordinary performances . The cinematography by Bobby Bukowski revels in the brilliance of the California sun at poolside as well as the eerie light from the computer screen in darkened rooms - further underlining the alienation that medium demands . And the crowning addition is a musical score by gifted composer Steve Reich ( one of the finest of today's classical composers ) . THE DYING GAUL is a tough film but one that is so refreshingly dedicated to its vision that it scores as a major work . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
' My Funny Valentine ' : A Little Film with a Tender Message	' It's the wrong time and the wrong place . . . ' - there are so many excerpts of songs quoted in this movie and ones that stimulate memories of old songs that are very much in keeping with the title and the story , THE BAND'S VISIT ( BIKUR HA-TIZMORET ) . A timely piece , this little film is about humanity and the possibility of communication by various means that overcome differences between cultures far better than treaties , summit meetings , and physical and verbal demonstrations . It is a thoughtful , engaging , and completely delightful success . The Alexandria Police Ceremonial Orchestra with ' General ' Tewfiq ( Sasson Gabai ) rigidly in charge provides music for occasions , and the particular occasion for this venture is a ceremony in Israel . Flying in from Egypt well dressed in light blue uniforms to perform for the new Arab Culture Center , the small band is not met as expected at the airport . Tewfiq attempts to resolve the lack of proper greeting and transportation by reserving space on a bus - a trip that mistakenly ( through problems originating in language confusion ) results in the band being dropped off in a small village Bet Hatikva . Frustrated with circumstances , the band is met with genial hospitality by café owner Dina ( Ronit Elkabetz ) who not only feeds them but puts the small band up for the evening . Dina has eyes for Tewfig and plans an evening out on the town with him - an evening that has its own surprises as each lonely person shares life circumstances . The other members of the band are placed in lodging with Dina's workers and at a dinner party discover similarities in their lives . Khaled ( Saleh Bakri ) , a somewhat antagonistic ladies ' man , spends an evening with a terrified young man Papi ( Shlomi Avraham ) on his first real date , and in the course of the evening introduces the fine art of courtship to Papi in a hilarious but touching scene . The use of English as the common language between these Arab and Hebrew speaking people adds elements of humor as well as moments of sweetness as both the band members and the Israelis grow to know and care about each other . The conversations among each separate group are delivered in Arabic and Hebrew with English subtitles and this degree of modified privacy becomes almost more humorous because of the bumpy language barriers shared with the audience . Everyone grows through this short visit and by the time the band departs for their correct destination by the next morning's bus , bonds have been made that preserve the dignity of nationality while overriding the limitations of differences peculiar to each country . This is a quiet , gentle , at times very humorous little movie that offers insights of how to attain global community for us all . Writer / director Eran Kolirin deserves special recognition for assembling and molding this excellent cast for this remarkable , genuinely compassionate statement about important issues . Grady Harp
A Reminder of How Powerful Theater Can Be	THE SISTERS is adapted by Richard Alfieri from his play ' The Sisters ' which in turn was adapted from Anton Chekov's ' The Three Sisters ' : the theatrical aspects of the play remain intact in this film version - and that is most definitely a plus ! All of the action takes place on an obvious set ( an enormously beautiful Faculty Lounge for a university where nearly everyone in the play is employed , and in a hospital waiting room ) and the lines are richly imbued with dialogue that mirrors Chekov's form despite the fact that Chekov's play has been updated to the present time with all the changes ( and similarities ! ) of modern day family life . The story is well known : a family of three sisters and a baby brother are both united and bonded by the past and show the scars of maturing on their journeys from a childhood to adulthood with a father that was both a hero to some and an incestuous attacker to another . One by one each of the sisters and the brother peel away the trappings that hide each other's realities and make public the pain endured in their dysfunctional family . Maria Bello as Marcia carries the bulk of the story as the abused , spiteful , vitriolic , unhappy head of the family unit : she is astonishingly fine . Mary Stuart Masterson is Olga , the closeted lesbian chancellor who has never had the luxury of sharing her private feelings with her sisters for fear of the consequences of her sexuality . Erika Christensen is the youngest sister Irene whose painful life as being treated as a child leads to her life of drug abuse . Allesandro Nivola is Andrew , the baby brother left in charge of the family estate in the South and has married a trashy , mouthy floozy Nancy ( Elizabeth Banks ) who is the sole challenge to the family's unity . The stalwart Greek chorus is the old professor Dr . Chebrin ( Rip Torn ) who watches as the various characters tangential to this crumbling family vie for inclusion : Gary Sokol ( Eric McCormack ) whose asides keep the theatrical flavor moving ; David Turzin ( Chris O'Donnell ) who loves and wants to possess Irene and is in bitter competition with Gary for her affections ; psychologist husband of Marcia Dr . Harry Glass ( Steven Culp ) ; and the visitor from the past Vincent Antonelli ( Tony Goldwyn ) who changes Marcia's existence transiently . Each actor is superb , playing the marvelous dialogue for all its worth and giving us fully realized characterizations . Arthur Allan Seidelman is the fine director and the elegant musical score is by Thomas Morse . There is action in this story and movement inside and outside the ways films should be shot when making a play into a movie . But for those who love the theater seeing this film little film will create a desire to have this exact company of actors set up shop in a nearby legitimate theater to allow for the grand impact of a fine play sifted through a fine adaptation to be absorbed repeatedly . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Rays of Light from Legends of the Dark Ages	Period pieces can be a tough sell , especially if they cannot rely on big budgets , extravagant sets and fight scenes , and the opulence of big name movie stars to carry them ( think Troy , Alexander the Great , etc ) . TRISTAN AND ISOLDE unfortunately had none of the above to propel it through the important theater run , yet having seen the DVD in the quiet of the home gives proof that all the accoutrements are not necessary if the piece has a vision starting with the writer ( Dean Georgaris ) and played through with a director such as Kevin Reynolds ( Count of Monte Cristo , Rapa Nui , Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves , etc ) and produced by sensitive designers and a credible group of fine actors . For this viewer , this very unique version of the Tristan and Isolde legend works very well , transporting us into the post Roman empire of the 600s AD when what is now England was a cluster of disjointed tribes and Ireland was the superior force . Realizing the proximity of Britain to Ireland aids the credibility of the action , an action dependent upon easy access via the ocean to the warring countries . Appropriately , Georgaris begins his amalgamation of the legend with Tristan ( Thomas Sangster ) as an orphaned child who is taken in by Lord Marke ( Rufus Sewell ) and raised with Melot ( Henry Cavill ) as a family that yearns for the unification of the Briton tribes in solidarity against the threat of Ireland , ruled by King Donnchadh ( David O'Hara ) whose daughter Isolde ( Isobel Scott Moynihan ) shares the same sorcery healing skills as her loyal maidservant Bragnae ( Bronagh Gallagher ) . Time passes and Tristan becomes a man ( James Franco ) and Isolde a woman ( Sophia Myles ) and in a serendipitous move Tristan is thought killed by Isolde's ugly betrothed ( while the betrothed is actually killed by Tristan ) but washes ashore in Ireland where his critical wounds are nursed by Isolde and Bragnae and the two begin a love affair doomed by royal rules . The remainder of the tale shows the many trials a young love must endure : Tristan is sent as Marke's representative to fight in a tournament in Ireland , the winner being promised the hand of Isolde . Tristan wins the tournament but because of his loyalty to King Marke he is obliged to bring Isolde to Britain to wed Marke . The two lovers remain secretly passionately in love but also deeply respectful for the kind King Marke , but as the various tribes of Britain still compete for power , rumors are arranged and the lovers are exposed , much to the pain of Marke . All of this seemingly complicated plot is in truth a simple love story of a love forbidden by rules but solid by passion . Though there are many versions of this old tale ( and there are moments when the viewer will ask questions about the love potion and Kurnewal and the character of Melot , etc that many know best from Wagner's adaptation for his opera ) , this version works very well . The settings in Ireland and the Czech Republic are dark and windswept and redolent of the Dark Ages , and the toughest of all assignments - creating a music score that doesn't attempt to compete with Wagner - is beautifully written by Anne Dudley . Yet such a story relies heavily on the actors and James Franco is a pensive yet brilliant warrior torn between love and duty and Sophia Myles creates an Isolde of incomparable beauty , balancing fragility of heart with strength of character . Rufus Sewell is a brilliant King Marke , Bronagh Gallagher a superlative Bragnae , and the smaller roles such as Henry Cavill's eye-candy Melot , David O'Hara's grisly Donnchadh and Mark Strong's seething Wictred bring total commitment to the screen . The DVD adds excellent features about the making of the film that for once truly enhances the viewing experience , making the viewer want to return immediately to the story to see how the magic was fulfilled . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Delightful French Farce	Though promoted as a ' Merchant Ivory Film ' , MERCI DOCTEUR REY is related to the team in production only . The film is written and directed by Andrew Litvack and is a well-made bit of fluff in the tried and true tradition of French Farce - mistaken identities , misconceptions that backfire then produce good things , and characters that are as off the wall as they come . Elisabeth Beaumont ( Dianne Wiest ) is an aging American Opera Diva who moves to Paris to perform with an opera director of note Claude Sabrié ( Bulle Ogier ) for an edgy performance of ' Turandot ' : she also wants to be near her Parisian son Thomas ( Stanislas Merhar ) who just happens to be struggling with his gender identity and spends his time in the sex personals and phone ads . Thomas decides to see a psychiatrist Doctor Rey , but upon arriving at her office he mistakes one Penelope ( Jane Birkin ) to be the psychiatrist , not knowing that not only is Penelope wildly nutty ( she thinks she is Vanessa Redgrave , having a job as the actress who provides the French dubbing for Redgrave's movies ) , she thinks she is responsible for Doctor Rey's dropping dead . Thomas and the newly discovered real Penelope bond and begin a ' crazy romance ' . While Elisabeth primps and prepares her Turandot she is told that Thomas is seeing a girlfriend ( Linda ) , which in ways surprises her , as she believes Thomas to be gay . Thomas becomes involved in a response to a phone ad , goes to a ' john's ' ( Simon Callow ) apartment where he observes voyeuristic murder involving a young man ( Karim Salah ) . The law becomes involved and through innumerable twists and turns the ' observed ' murder is manipulated in a winning way . Elisabeth debuts as an outrageous Turandot , Penelope meets Vanessa Redgrave ( playing herself ) , Thomas discovers secrets about the identity of his father in a strange manner . . . etc . The result is a crazy bit of lunacy that works extremely well . This farce can be a bumpy road if you allow your attention to stray , but plug into the manner in which it is played and the result is a showcase for some fine actors having a swell time . Yes , it is froth , but what a fine froth it is ! An exhilarating comedy outing . Grady Harp
A Beautiful , Touching , Entertaining Tale of Dreams and Aging	It seems many viewers avoided this film when it was in the theaters because the title was confusing and not representative of the story . The fact that Sir Anthony Hopkins was the lead actor should have been a signal of sorts , but it took the release of the DVD for this viewer to reluctantly rent the film when other possibilities were low . Big Mistake ! This is one of the more genuinely fine films about the idomitability of the human spirit that has been released in some time . Based on a true story , the ' Indian ' of the title has nothing to do with the heritage of the character Burt Munro , a 67 year old odd but generously kind New Zealander whose lifelong passion is to race his 1923 ' Indian motorbike ' in the Bonneville Salt Flats Races in America . Burt lives for his dreams and despite the fact that his idiosyncrasies befuddle his neighbors and townsfolk ( with the except of the little boy Tom next door who idolizes him ) , he manages to make everyone with whom he comes into contact admire , and yes , love him . Using his own skills he brings his old motorbike to the point that he can enter the race in the States and with the financial help of his friends he manages to board a ship with his bike and sail to America . In the US he is a fish out of water and must adjust to the city life and attitudes of the Americans , but eventually , through his innate charm and dedication to his dream , he does manage against all odds and , with the help of many American new friends , enter the race to break the world's record for speed on a motorbike . Hopkins owns the role of Burt and despite his not always on target New Zealand accent he manages to deliver surely one of his most endearing portrayals of his rich career . His encounters with Tom , with a feisty widow Ada ( Diane Ladd ) , with a fine old wise Indian man , and with a transsexual motel clerk Tina ( Chris Williams ) , to name only a few of the superb supporting cast - are the epitome of underplayed fine acting and engender so much warmth that tears of happiness just can't be avoided . Writer and director Roger Donaldson deserves a standing ovation for this small , sensitive , gentle , understated tale that demonstrates so well how being true to your visions and your dreams can overcome almost any obstacle . A deeply touching and completely entertaining movie . Highly Recommended for all audiences . This is one to Buy ! Grady Harp
Surely One of the Finest Films of the Year	' Quinceañera ' is a little miracle of a film . Written and directed by the sensitive team of Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland ( ' The Fluffer ' , ' Grief ' ) this independent film garnered many awards at the Sundance Festival and rightly so . For the first time a film about the Latino community in Los Angeles is presented without the usual onerous stereotypes but instead with all the idiosyncrasies of a culture within a culture that respects place , time , extended family , the individual choices that demand courage , and the wondrously warm festivities and traditions that make this part of Los Angeles milieu so unique and special . Made on a budget of around $250 , 000 . with the money being raised by producers who solely believed in an idea ( no script was ready at the time of solicitation of support ) presented Glatzer and Westmoreland who lived in the Echo Park area of downtown LA and had witnessed the traditional coming of age at 15 with the special presentation to society of girls becoming women called Quinceañera : they felt a story was there . Gathering a cast of both known and unknown actors who felt as committed to the concept as the production team , Glatzer and Westmoreland wrote the script as the film progressed , using extemporaneous lines from the cast on set as part of the atmosphere . The end product is a loving , unpretentious , realistic story rendered without the slightest trace of treacle or overindulgence in histrionics or false sentimentality . Magdalena ( a strong Emily Rios ) is 14 , awaiting her quinceañera , knowing that her family cannot afford the extravagance of the event in which she has just been a participant . Her father is a preacher and will not consider spending money for a new dress or a limo for her party and while her mother supports Magdalena's wants , she succumbs to the realities of the finances of the family . Magdalena has a young boyfriend Herman ( J . R . Cruz ) and though they are careful with intimacy , Magdalena becomes pregnant without penetration . When her family discovers her pregnancy , no one will believe she is still in fact a virgin and she is castigated by her father ( Jesus Castanos ) and thrown from her home . Herman loves her but obeys his mother's wishes that he complete school and he leaves Echo Park , deserting Magdalena . Magdalena finds solace with her great granduncle Tio Tomas Alvarez ( a brilliant Chalo González ) who lives in back of a property in a home filled with love , memories , kindness , and tradition . He has also taken in the young pseudo-gansta Carlos ( an impressively strong and hunky Jesse Garcia ) who discovers he is gay when he comes out with the gay couple ( David Ross and Jason L . Wood ) who own the property in front of Tio's little place . Gradually Magdalena and Carlos bond under the influence of their Tio Tomas , learning the important life lessons of family and self respect , healing from the injuries that are similar to the disappointments of Tio Tomas ' past . It is the manner in which these three become a strong extended family , mutually supportive , that is the strength of the story , and when Tio Tomas suffers yet another disappointment in his life , he at age 81 dies quietly , leaving Magdalena and Carlos the richer for their time with him . The supporting cast , drawn from professional actors , local theater and from the people of Echo Park , is uniformly strong and presents an unfettered sense of realism to the film . There are many exemplary moments : Magdalena and her father argue over her pregnancy in a bilingual fashion - the father screams in Spanish and Magdalena screams back in English , a finely integrated demonstration of the crossing of language and culture so well presented in the film ; Carlos ' eulogy at Tio Tomas ' funeral is one of the more powerful monologues on film and is superbly delivered by the very talented Jesse Garcia ; finally a look at the gay Spanish population so taboo in other films , again due to the fine acting of Garcia with Ross and Wood ; and the preparations and executions of the actual quinceañeras are true to life . This is a film of love on the part of everyone involved and it is powerful in its simple realism . Highly recommended for everyone . Grady Harp
A Terrifyingly Honest Examination of the Effects of War	As this country continues to struggle with the tragedies inflicted upon all who are being singed and scorched by the Iraq War ( and that includes every citizen of this country , whether directly or indirectly ) , films addressing this war are wither avoided by the theatrical audiences or cause flare reactions of judgment . Into this milieu writer ( with Mark Boal ) and director Paul Haggis places this painful examination of the effects and aftershocks of war in the persona of a father whose only son is reported as ' missing ' after he has returned from his tour of duty in Iraq . By keeping the story focused on the effect of the devastation on one man Haggis makes his point all the more clear , and the result is one of the finest documents of the insanity of war that has been released in some years . Hank Deerfield ( Tommy Lee Jones ) has served in the military and encouraged both his sons to serve their country ( much against the emotional reaction of his wife Joan - Susan Sarandon ) : his older son is killed in a helicopter crash and his younger son , recently returned from a year's duty in Iraq , is reported as missing . Hank drives to the base where his son was stationed , learns of his son's death ' by friendly fire ' at home , and tries t enlist the help of the military to investigate the affair without success . He encounters a sullen police detective Emily Sanders ( Charlize Theron ) who appears bruised by life in general and by her prejudiced co-workers and military men in particular . Gradually Emily sides with the grieving Hank to explore the horrid details of Hank's son's brutal murder , dismemberment and burning . Despite endless barriers of red tape and military secrecy lead by Lt . Kirklander ( Jason Patric ) both Emily and Hank slowly piece together the truth , using email videos Hank's son had sent him from Iraq , interviews with Hank's son's fellow soldiers , and examination of the body parts of Hank's son . Once the truth is out the effects on all concerned reveal the inevitable permanent scars of war on all concerned . Yet it is the strength of character as revealed in Hank's responses that drive home the pungent message of this difficult film . Tommy Lee Jones gives the most subtle performance of his fine career as the grieving yet stoic Hank . Charlize Theron once again proves that she can disappear into a demanding role like few other actresses . Susan Sarandon , Jason Patric , James Franco ( in a tiny but pivotal role ) , Josh Brolin , Frances Fisher ( in a cameo that is very impressive ) , and all the young men who play the soldiers involved in the investigation are superb . The film pulls no punches , yet it also refrains from sensationalizing events - as though Haggis realized that the truth was viciously cruel enough without embellishment . Special mention should be paid to the fine musical score by Mark Isham , a pulsating , minimalist background that heightens the effect of the film . This may be a difficult film to watch but it is a necessary experience if we are to constantly re-evaluate our philosophy of war and intervention . Grady Harp
A Tight , Taut Script and Impeccable Cast Create a Winner for Richard Shepard	THE MATADOR is one of those surprising films whose title seems to suggest something entirely different from the story it tells - until the viewer has the pleasure of viewing this fast paced , immensely entertaining comedy and ' Matador ' takes on a whole new meaning ! Richard Shepard wrote and directed this story of a hit-man ( Pierce Brosnan in one of his finest roles ) on the skids who happens to meet a sweet nice guy ( Greg Kinnear ) whose business is so on the skids that he has traveled to Mexico City for a chance for survival , temporarily leaving behind his wife ( Hope Davis ) in the midst of a rainy accident to their home . The two disparate men meet in a bar , share drinks , and after some of the cleverest tête a tête on film form a bond that neither of them expects . Brosnan's hit-man character and Kinnear's slipping business failure at first collide and then mutually benefit from embracing what seem to be polar opposites of characters . How the whole chance meeting alters their lives is hilarious , edgy , and tender . Brosnan , Kinnear , and Davis display fine ensemble acting and keep the movie constantly flowing despite the strange twists and turns the story takes . But a great deal of the credit goes to the razor sharp direction of Richard Shepard whose sense of comic and dramatic timing are superb . This is a very well done , highly entertaining film that offers the cast plum roles and the audience a terrific evening of entertainment . Grady Harp
Seeds of Scheherazade	THE FALL is one of the more stunningly beautiful cinematic works to be created in recent years . Vibrant young director Tarsem Singh , born in India and trained at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena , CA , produced , directed and wrote ( with Dan Gilroy , Nico Soultanakis , and Valery Petrov ) this magical tale that blends fantasy , illusion , dreams , and altered reality with one of the more touching stories imaginable . The film takes many risks and for this viewer they all work . With only one other film ( ' The Cell ' ) in his bag , this splendid work signals the arrival of a new Dali / Fellini / Bunuel figure in cinema . The setting is a hospital in Los Angeles sometime in the 1920s where a little immigrant girl Alexandria ( the amazing Romanian child actress Catinca Untaru ) is recovering from a broken arm . She waders the hospital looking for something to help her while away the hours and comes upon a kind patient Roy Walker ( Lee Pace ) who has been through numerous operations and is addicted to morphine . The two form a friendship through Roy's willingness to weave stories for Alexandria ( much in the same vein as Scheherazade ) and in Roy's stories the various patients and personnel of the hospital take on fantasy roles : there are five men ( including Roy as the Blue Bandit ) who are attempting to kill Governor Odious ( Daniel Caltagirone ) including Darwin ( Leo Bill ) , the Mystic ( Julian Bleach ) , Otta Benga ( Marcus Wesley ) and other fascinating characters . How the stories intertwine with Roy and Alexandria as friends and as victim of morphine abuse and supplier of the drug makes for a complex , multifaceted adventure that takes place in beautiful , strange locales throughout the world . How the relationship between Roy and Alexandria develops amidst all the surreal tales is the focus of the film . The cinematography ( Colin Wilkinson ) , costumes ( Eiko Ishioka ) and musical score ( Krishna Levy ) enhance the beauty of the film , as does the transition into the creation of silent movies that opens and closes the film . There is more in this little film than one viewing could ever completely reveal . Visit it once and become as addicted to the magic as was the king to Scheherazade's endless tales . Grady Harp
Performances to Remember and Treasure	Now and then it is refreshing to turn back time and elect to watch older films of substance , a reminder that there are certain cinematic characters that have become indelible . SCENT OF A WOMAN provided Al Pacino a stage on which to perform a true character , unlike any he had played before , and make it one of those creations that still , 15 years later , evoke a smile and applause . Blind , acerbic , loudmouthed , irascible Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade ( Pacino ) hires preppy , in need of money , Charlie Simms ( Chris O'Donnell ) to escort him to New York for a ' final fling ' . Charlie has his own issues that depress him , but the two end up having such a grand time in New York that they bond strongly - until Slade dresses for his final moment . The tearful Charlie convinces Slade not to off himself , Charlie's innate character wins Slade's gruff heart , and Slade ends up defending Charlie in an unforgettable prep school ' mock trial ' . The complete manner in which Pacino inhabits this role is a stroke of studied genius : as a blind man his every physical and verbal movements are wholly convincing . There are many fine moments in this film , not the least of which is the famous Tango scene , or the confrontation between Charlie and Slade regarding a suicide plan . Pacino won Best Actor for his role and it is richly deserved . This is a film to cherish . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Miracle The Worl Shoul Heed !	Something has been happening in Venezuela for the past thirty years , something that should sound a reveille around the world . This excellent film written and directed by Alberto Arvelo Mendoza with Carlos Díaz may at first seem like a propaganda film from Venezuela , but within moments of the opening aqueous credits the audience is poised for discovery . TOCAR Y LUCHAR ( ' To Play and To Fight ' ) is a documentary about the National Youth Orchestras of Venezuela , an organization now headed by Jose Antonio Abreu that focuses on providing instruments , musical training , and the experience of becoming part of a classical music orchestra to the children of Venezuela . The result is the truly superb Simón Bolívar Youth Orchestra of Venezuela that has been touring the world under the leadership of principal conductor Gustavo Dudamel providing inspiration not only to young people who long for something meaningful in their lives , something like the majesty that classical music offers , but also bringing audiences in Berlin , Munich , Italy , and throughout the United States to their feet . This superb DVD explains how this happens , and the success of the film is the radiant faces of the thousands of young students who are becoming leading musicians of world-class quality . Yes , there are live performances conducted by Dudamel as well as Claudio Abbado , Simon Rattle , and Giuseppe Sinopoli and there are moments of tribute from these conductors as well as from singers such as Placido Domingo and from commentators . But the real magic of the DVD lies in the expressions and the interviews with the members of the orchestra . This is a success story we should all heed : perhaps the salvation of our young people is here in this concept of providing opportunity and inspiration through classical music training . The film is not only a fulfilling visual and aural experience , it is also a beacon of hope whose light hopefully will be shared by all countries of the globe . Highly recommended not only for music educators but also for everyone who cares about the future of music and our children ! Grady Harp
' Scenes of a Sexual Nature ' : not a disclaimer but a joy	The British have done it again - successfully shown how talent , ensemble attitude , prudent production values , and esprit de corps can result in a first class thoughtful comedy of life . A first outing for writer Aschlin Ditta and director Ed Blum , this entertaining , intelligent and beautifully wrought film is a veritable showcase of some of Britain's finest actors . The concept is a simple one : one sunny afternoon on Hampstead Heath overlooking London the camera moves among seven couples acting out the sexual overtones of relationships . No , there is no graphic action here : it is absolutely unnecessary , so candid and intelligent is the script . The couples we meet are 1 ) Eileen Atkins and Benjamin Whitrow , two alone , aging characters whose proclivity for weekly visits to the same bench result in a courtship dance of sorts ; 2 ) Andrew Lincoln and Holly Aird discussing their rather dry state of marriage as Andrew's eyes understandably caress the beautiful Eglantine Rembauville-Nicolle reading Camus nearby , causing a crack in the couple's marriage ; 3 ) Sophie Okenedo distraught at a breakup is consoled then seduced by flippant Tom Hardy ; 4 ) Adrian Lester and Catherine Tate are in the final paper stages of divorce , trying to overcome their feelings for their frolicking little daughter ; 5 ) Ewan McGregor and Douglas Hodge are a gay couple contemplating adoption despite McGregor's character's wandering eye ; 6 ) Hugh Bonneville and Catherine Tate banter the fragility of a first date over lunch and wine and distrust ; and Polly Walker ' sells ' her time and attentions to willing buyer Mark Strong . The phrase on the cover of the very well made DVD states it well : ' Sex and love . Some seek it , some need it , some spurn it and some pay for it , but we're all involved in it ' . In addition to the pleasure of watching these superb actors ply their trade in these small vignettes the cinematography , editing , and musical score underline the spontaneous feeling of Ditta and Blum's concept . It is a pure joy to watch - even the informative dialog in the added features that accompany this delightful DVD . Grady Harp
The Gradual Ascension to Manhood and Decency	TSOTSI is a jewel of a film , well deserving the Academy Award for Best Foreign Film of 2005 . Though set in Johannesburg , South Africa , the story is unfortunately so universal that the film could have been made in any country in the world : the lost children of abusive parents who survive life by relying on crime fill the streets of the poor neighborhoods of all major cities . TSOTSI is a tragedy but it carries a sense of hope and redemption that makes it a powerful statement indeed . Tsotsi - translated , means ' Thug ' - ( Presley Chweneyagae ) is an amoral youth who heads a gang of four : Boston ( Mothusi Magano ) , Aap ( Kenneth Nkosi ) , and Butcher ( Zenzo Ngqobe ) . The gang steals and in general leads a life of dangerous existence , a life that abruptly alters when the gang robs and kills a gentle older man on the subway . They are on the run now and Tsotsi isolates himself further when he brutally beats Boston . He descends further into the abyss when he steals a car in the wealthy neighborhood , shooting the woman driving , and then discovering that in the back seat is an infant . His childhood flashes before his eyes and he finally shows a degree if buried decency when he takes the child with him as he abandons the stolen vehicle . Young and inexperienced in child care ( his own childhood was riddled with hate and abuse ) , he seeks help from a young woman Miriam ( Terry Pheto ) who has an infant of her own ( with no father ) and serves as a wet nurse for the child . The manner in which Tsotsi gradually reconciles his bad life with his nascent response to recognizing kindness and salvation advances the story to its conclusion . There is far more to the story than this short synopsis would indicate : there are levels of probing into the mind of the youthful criminal and the making of a gangster and the interaction among thieves and the changes that situations can alter that are beautifully written by Director Gavin Hood based on the Athol Fugard novel . The script is terse and much is left to the physical expressions of the characters , each acted to perfection by a stunning cast . The outsider living situation of these people is filmed with tremendous atmosphere and creativity by cinematographer Lance Gewer and the musical score by Paul Hepker and Mark Kilian serves to support the mood and action well . This is a tough movie to watch because of the reality of the issues : this is a superlative film to experience for the message it offers and for the wholly unforgettable acting of young Presley Chweneyagae and Terry Pheto . In Zulu , Xhosa , and Afrikaans with English subtitles . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Power of Song as a Gateway of Understanding	Writer / director Christian Carion ( ' Une hirondelle a fait le printemps ' aka ' The Girl from Paris ' ) is unafraid to write and create cinematic tales that touch the heart as well as the mind . ' Joyeux Noël ' is a story of war and its effects on soldiers that goes far beyond sentimentality ( or the opposite emphasis on brutality as found in American films ) and offers the viewer insights to the responses of young men's minds to the monster of war and how they cope . Based on a true story , the film opens with the usual callous killing among three groups of soldiers - German , French , and Scottish - who face an oncoming Christmas Eve in the trenches , the realities of fighting have precluded their getting time to retreat for air . But a miracle happens : among the Germans is a famous opera tenor Nikolaus Sprink ( Benno Fürmann ) who has aligned with his fellow troops in the trenches , hoping he can bring some minor sense of Christmas and understanding to them . His soprano partner Anna Sorensen ( Diane Kruger ) finds a way to be with him in the trenches on Christmas Eve , 1914 . Meanwhile the disgruntle troops of all three sectors are planning meager festivities and a bit of relaxation even in the trenches as the bodies of the day's plunder lie in the snow of no man's land . We get to know the French Lieutenant Audebert ( Guillaume Canet ) and his orderly Ponchel ( Dany Boon ) , the German head of the regiment Horstmayer ( Daniel Brühl ) , and the Scots - especially the priest / medic Palmer ( Gary Lewis ) . Christmas Eve comes and the voice of Sprink ( in reality the tenor Rolando Villazón ) sings ' Stille Nacht ' , rising out of the trenches to sing in the open of no man's land . Soon he is accompanied by the Scottish bagpipes and the ' chorus ' of the Germans , the Scots and the French . They all emerge , share gifts of champagne and other libations , and agree to a cease-fire in honor of the holiday . It is in this magic moment that the true personalities of these warring men surface and each is seen as a vulnerable puppet of the WW I , exchanging addresses to meet after the war . Anna Sorenson has managed to enter the scene and during a communal mass led by Palmer she sings ( the voice is Natalie Dessay ) an Ave Maria ( composed by the film's composer Philippe Rombi ) : the lovers have previously sung a duet version of Bach's ' Bist du bei mir ' . For that moment in time the horrors of war melt and the camaraderie of the men glows and is carried into Christmas Day when all three groups of soldiers agree to bury their dead together . Of course the brutality and ignorance of war re-engages and the leaders of the three groups enter camp and threaten courts martial and punishment for the troops ' lack of military discipline . The film ends in a manner that leaves the audience able to integrate the happenings of that Christmas Eve on the futures of these men . The script is superb , the cast is uniformly excellent , the sets and cinematography are creatively moody , and the musical score by Philippe Rombi is one of the finest in years : the ending song ' I'm Dreaming of Home ' deserves to become a standard . Would that everyone could see this film , a bit of global hope in the cloud of the destruction that shadows our world right now . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Disintegration of a Dysfunctional Family	FESTEN ( The Celebration ) as a title for this dark but brilliant film from Denmark ' assembled ' by Thomas Vinterberg is more than the oxymoron that applies to the story at story's conclusion . It is a powerful , immaculately acted and performed and photographed study on the level of the great Greek dramas , but placed oh so uncomfortably in modern times . Helge Klingenfeldt-Hansen ( Henning Moritzen ) is the patriarch of a large family whose 60th birthday is cause for a huge celebration , a party in the wake of the latest subterranean dark secret of this ominous group - the suicide death of the eldest sister ( Lene Laub Oksen - seen only as a spirit ) , twin of Christian ( Ulrich Thomsen ) . Christian returns to the party from his successful Parisian restaurant career bringing with him his history of multiple institutionalizations for ' mental illness ' . He is joined by his brother Michael ( Thomas Bo Larsen ) , a ne're do well owner of a sleazy grill in Copenhagen and married to Mette ( Helle Dolleris ) in a ' challenging ' domestic life ( ! ) , and his lawyer sister Helene ( Paprika Steen ) who quite against family rules is living with a black man Gbatokai ( Gbatokai Dakinah ) . The only calm one among this disparate group is the mother ( Birthe Neumann ) . Problems arise before the party begins , old sibling differences and family squabbles rising out of the cracks in the glorious old castle that houses the celebration . But the clinker comes when Helge asks Christian to offer words at the feast , a task openly welcomed as it gives Christian the opportunity to flail out the truth about the Helge that everyone seems to admire but who in fact is the nidus for the dark submerged evils that permeate the family . In the course of the celebration all of the family problems are revealed in a manner that is as stunning as the blackest of Greek tragedies . The cast is extraordinary : every actor is gifted and performs difficult roles to perfection . Outstanding among them are Ulrich Thomsen and Paprika Steen who give notice of great acting talents . Much has been said about the manner in which the film was made according to Danish codes : suffice it to say the code's rules magnify the importance of this wholly successful film . It is a must see experience . Grady Harp
Children as the Microcosm of the War on Iraq : An Astonishing Film !	' Lakposhtha hâm parvaz mikonand ' ( TURTLES CAN FLY ) takes your breath away . Not only is the story by writer / director Bahman Ghobadi timely , it is one of the most devastatingly real examinations of the people of Iraq in the days before the American preemptive attack : it is more real because the entire story is told through the eyes of children . The action takes place in Kurdistan , Iraq at the Turkish border . The temporary refugee camp in the hills is occupied by children who make money by gathering live mines and used shells from the military conditions under Saddam Hussein's rule . They struggle to make deals for a satellite dish so that they can provide coverage of the war for the elders ( they are not allowed to watch Hussein's forbidden channels ! ) , they form rival groups for the monetary aspects of weapons gathering , and they rely on a leader by the name of Satellite ( Soran Ebrahim ) who appears to be the oldest of the children . His ' associates ' are the crippled boy Pashow ( Saddam Hossein Feysal ) able to run as fast as even Satellite on a bicycle with just one leg and a crutch ; Shirkooh ( Ajil Zibari ) whose tears flow easily ; Hengov ( Hiresh Feysal Rahman ) who lost his arms to the land mines and has the ability to foresee the future ; and the mysterious Agrin ( Avaz Latif ) the sole girl who with Hengov is caring for a blind two year orphan Riga ( Abdol Rahman Karim ) . The children , all orphans , are on the watch for war they know will come , watch and listen for the Americans to arrive , and struggle for survival under Satellite's organized control . Agrin wishes to escape it all , pleads with Hengov to return to their home , but Hengov will not leave the child Riga . As the tension mounts tragedies occur , touching all of the children . But the manner in which the children finally observe as Hussein's statue topples and as the American troops distribute ' hopeful ' fliers from helicopters , events bringing an end to their temporary refuge camp status , is heart-wrenchingly portrayed . The film is full of passion . The young ' actors ' are splendid : how Ghobadi found such children to play tough parts in such a wholly naturalistic way is a true feat of genius . This is a powerful , disturbing , yet ultimately beautiful film that deserves everyone's close attention . In Kurdish with English subtitles . Highly recommended ! Grady Harp
' All the world's a stage '	Kenneth Branagh , aside from being a gifted actor with an enormous range of creative character abilities , has once again brought Shakespeare to life on the screen . His previous excursions into the bard's repertoire have included ' Much Ado About Nothing ' , ' Henry V ' , ' Love's Labours Lost ' , ' Hamlet ' , and ' Othello ' , and now he adds one of the bard's most successful comedies AS YOU LIKE IT to his list of successes . Branagh has the gift of making the visual aspects of Shakespeare's stories enhance the language and in doing so he makes Shakespeare sound like brilliant conversation ( which it of course is ) instead of stilted and brittle old English . The ' gimmick ' used here by Branagh in adapting Shakespeare's play is placing the action in 19th century Japan , and while other less sensitive directors might have opted to insert parody here , Branagh instead makes the story seem all the more plausible - the two feuding brothers ( one dark and one light ) whose struggle over their estate opens the play before credits with an ingenious silent drama of black leather feudal costumed men invading a genteel house party of lovely people enjoying a Japanese dancer's performance . The original brother is banished with his clan to the Arden forest and there the magic begins . Love between several couples is played in all its manifestations with disguise , misconceptions , lust , and poetry until the play's rollicking end in a song of Hey Nonny Nonny ! The lovers include the disguised Rosalind ( Bryce Dallas Howard ) and Orlando ( David Oyelowo ) , Celia ( Romola Garai ) and Oliver ( Adrian Lester ) , the court fool Touchstone ( a brilliant Alfred Molina ) and Audrey ( Janet McTeer ) , and Sylvius ( Alex Wyndham ) and Phoebe ( Jade Jefferies ) . Brian Blessed plays the roles of both feuding brothers with style and authority , and Kevin Kline offers a fully realized Jaques - the character who is given the most memorable soliloquies in the play . The settings and imagery ( Tim Harvey ) are artistic and beautiful and captured with style by cinematographer Roger Lanser , and as with all of Branagh's production the music score ( here by Patrick Doyle ) is letter perfect and atmospheric . But in the end the kudos go to Kenneth Branagh for his consistent courage and conviction that Shakespeare's plays are timeless , and his devotion to bringing them to the contemporary audience is to be applauded . This is a fine film - one to own ! Grady Harp
Fine Ensemble Acting in a Quiet , Powerful Little Film	AURORA BOREALIS is a superb film by James Burke ( ' In Dark Places ' and ' Tis a Gift to Be Simple ' ) from a story by Brent Boyd ( ' The Green Room ' and ' Crazy ' ) and if this film is a sample of how these two fine talents collaborate , we can only hope for more . The cast assembled for this movie gives evidence that the actors deeply admire their vision : it is well deserved . The setting is winter in Minneapolis , the hometown of the Shorter family : Grandfather Ronald ( Donald Sutherland ) , Grandmother Ruth ( Louise Fletcher ) , and the two grandsons Duncan ( Joshua Jackson ) and Jacob ( Steven Pasquale ) . The boys ' father died at age 39 ( 10 years prior to the opening of the story ) and both boys grew up on their own , feeling deserted by a father who had been a cocaine abuser at one time . Duncan had been a champion hockey player , but when his father died his goals diminished and he has been in and out of odd jobs without a solid look at his future . Jacob runs a nursing home business and when he is not working , he is bringing his girlfriends to Duncan's flat for trysts . Duncan cares for his grandfather Ronald who has multiple illnesses ( Parkinson's Disease , dementia ) yet who maintains a humble life with Ruth . As Ronald's condition deteriorates , Duncan takes a handyman's job in the complex where his grandparents live and during this time the two men bond more closely than ever : Ronald's fading mind sees northern lights from his apartment window and Duncan out of love and growing understanding lets him believe they are real . Ronald is aware of his mental instability and lets Duncan know that he would like to take his life with a shotgun , an idea Duncan prevents . Ronald and Ruth have a health care provider Kate ( Juliette Lewis ) whom they trust and love and encourage Duncan to seek out as a partner . Kate and Duncan date and fill the wide gaps in each other's personalities , yet when the opportunity comes for Kate to move to sunny San Diego , she is unable to make Duncan budge from his safe routine existence in Minneapolis . But as Duncan's resistance is broken down ( he learns from a mentor that his father did not die of cocaine abuse , Ronald dies a natural death , etc ) , he views Kate as the person who can alter his outlook and his life . Every member of this cast is extraordinary : Donald Sutherland creates a man eaten by Parkinson's Disease and dementia without ever becoming a caricature , Louise Fletcher reminds us how self-effacing her acting has always been , Juliette Lewis turns in one of her most sensitive roles , and Joshua Jackson finds every nuance of the troubled but needy Duncan and engages our empathy . Each of the smaller rolls is likewise pitch perfect , no doubt due in large part to the sensitive direction of Burke . It is so refreshing to watch a film as meaningful in message and in skillful acting as this , a movie that restores our confidence in film as art . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
On the Battlefield , Personal Survival and Bonding are Essential	So many films about war , and especially about WW II , focus on the ' good guys ' ( read Allied troops ) versus ' bad guys ' ( read Germans ) and the monumental confrontations that have gained heroic monikers like D-Day , Normandy , Battle of the Bulge , etc . The film crews spend millions to re-enact these epic battles . At times the individuals within the massive units are brought into focus ( ' Saving Private Ryan ' , etc ) but primarily they are frontal decoration for the Big Effects created to stun the audience . Then comes along a small scale independent film like SAINTS AND SOLDIERS and while the battles are there and realistically created , this time they are background settings for this intimate story of the survival of four men and how that survival and a concerted mission serve to allow each to become wholly vulnerable despite all the societal taboos for honest , fragile emotions in men at war . The only other film of this scale and intent that comes to mind is the Peter Berg 1992 film A MIDNIGHT CLEAR . The story of SIANTS AND SOLDIERS revolves around true events - the massacre of US soldiers at Malmedy , Belgium during the Battle of the Bulge . Four young soldiers escape the German horror : Deacon ( Corbin Allred ) , a lad without vices who had been a pre-war missionary ( ? Mormon ) in Berlin and speaks the language ; Medic Steven Gould ( Alexander Niver ) who was forced to give up Medical School to go to war ; Gordon Gunderson ( Peter Holden ) who has bonded with Deacon ; Private Shirl Kendrick ( Lawrence Bagby ) who is a simple Mississippi boy who has never been kissed . Joining them early on is the parachute entrapped Flight Sergeant Oberon Winley ( Kirby Heyborne ) who has urgent intelligence gained from reconnaissance during a shot-down plane mission . Together these men survive the cold of winter , lack of food and shelter and adequate arms , and set out on a mission to help Winley deliver his coded intelligence to the Allied troops , a fact that could save thousands of lives . Along the way we learn the various secrets about the individual men's lives back home and their psychological baggage that accompanies them in the snow forests of Belgium . Each has a burden and each learns from the others , agonizing as some are lost , yet compelled to complete their task : Deacon copes with the fact that he mistakenly destroyed a mother and children in a raid , disillusioned Medic Gould has lost faith in a higher being because of the sights of the war and languishes over Deacon's humanity to even the Germans , Gunderson is obsessed with defending Deacon's near fall into shell shock , etc . The now five men are propelled along the course of the war growing from each other's spirits . The photography for this low budget film is utterly magnificent and was shot by the director Ryan Little himself . The story , based on fact , was altered and adapted for the screen by Geoffrey Panos and Matt Whitaker . The actors are true to ensemble acting - all sensitive , each well performed . And while it is difficult to isolate individuals , the work of Alexander Niver and Corbin Allred is extraordinary . Crowning this deeply moving film is the powerful , sensitive , beautiful musical score by J Bateman and Bart Hendrickson . This is one of those perfectly written , directed , acted , photographed , and scored little wonders that restore faith in the integrity of movies . Highly Recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
A Claustrophobic French Household Contains Dark Deeds	There is a major player in this extremely fine film who goes all but unmentioned : the work of cinematographer Ashley Rowe is some of the finest on film , creating an atmosphere solely within the confines of a home made dark by lack of light and by brooding madness and murder . The effect achieved is nothing short of miraculous and further adds to the importance of this under-rated movie . Based on the infamous Papin sisters ' murder of their employer and daughter in 1932 in France , SISTER MY SISTER is based on a play by Wendy Kesselman ( who also wrote the mesmerizing screenplay ) and is directed by the imaginatively fine Nancy Meckler . Two sisters - Christine the eldest ( Joely Richardson ) and Lea ( Jodhi May ) are shown during the titles in black and white as poor orphans separated to different ends . As the film begins Christine has introduced her estranged beloved Lea to her employer , the rigid and strange Madame Danzard ( Julie Walters ) and her wallflower daughter Isabelle ( Sophie Thursfield ) . Lea is hired by the penny pinching Madame Danzard and the two sisters co-serve as maids to the household . Christine and Lea view each other as not only sisters but as lovers and it is this latter role that leads Madame Danzard ( spying contemptibly on the girls ) that is the final straw in Madame's mistreatment of the girls that leads to the rather shocking murder of both Madame Danzard and Isabelle . We know from the start - both from the infamous case and from the opening sequences where the blood of the deed is seen along the stairwell - what the ending will be : it is the progress to that end that concerns the film . Each of the actresses is brilliant in their roles , roles that are far cries from the usual types that each actress has played . Julie Walters manages to ooze vitriol while moments later being oddly comedic in her la-la land of dancing to her Victrola . Joely Richardson is terrifyingly strange and Jodhi May says more with her facial expressions than legions of actors do with complex scripts . But again the physical ominous presence of the house of bad things is so magnificently created by Rowe's creative photography that is becomes of equal importance as a character . The musical score by Stephen Warbeck works solidly to convey the descent into madness of the two sisters . A brilliant tour de force for all concerned and highly recommended for those who love fine acting and dark thrillers . Grady Harp
Looking Out form a Locked-In Mind	Julian Schnabel , well accepted as one of the important visual artists of our time , continues to impress with his small but elite group of films , proving that paintings and cinema are closely related as a means to reach the psyche . In ' Le Scaphandre et le papillon ' ( ' The Diving Bell and the Butterfly ' ) he has transformed the memoir of Jean-Dominique Bauby ( with the sensitive screen adaptation by Ronald Harwood ) into an experience for the mind and the heart . It is an extraordinary blend of visual effects , poetry , exquisite acting , and the perseverance of the human mind to communicate with the world when all seeming variations of communication are stripped away . Jean-Dominique ( Jean-Do ) Bauby ( Mathieu Amalric ) was the editor of the French magazine ' Elle ' , living with the beautiful Céline Desmoulins ( Emmanuelle Seigner ) and their three children , when during a ride with his son he has a massive stroke that leaves him completely paralyzed ( the ' locked-in syndrome ' ) . When he awakens from his coma he is able to hear and to see but he cannot speak or move , except for his eyes . From this point we , the audience , experience the world as through the eyes of Jean-Do , share his frustrations of being unable to speak , and in his ultimately having to communicate through the fine skills of his speech therapist Henriette Durand ( Marie-Josée Croze ) by blinking his eye once or twice for yes or no as each letter of the alphabet is spoken - an arduous task for both patient and visitor . He decides he wants to write his memoirs and Claude ( Anne Consigny ) is assigned to take his ' dictation ' . The only faculties Jean-Do retains are his memory and his fantasies , and it is through the acting out of these that we discover the victim's private and secret life as well as his relationships to colleagues and lovers and family . He imagines the hospital where he is confined in the time of Nijinsky ( Nicolas Le Riche ) and Empress Eugénie ( Emma de Caunes ) and filters the realities of his life through the interactions with his comrades Laurent ( Isaach De Bankolé ) and others as well as vivid memories of his relationship with his father Papinou Bauby ( Max von Sydow ) . With the patient assistance of the health providers , friends and family he is able to complete his memoir , the story of a man locked in a diving bell longing for the freedom of a butterfly , released form its cocoon . . Getting used to the film technique Schnabel uses takes patience , but for those who are willing to accept the pace of the film , rich with fantasy and historical sequences , the impact is not only compelling but breathtaking . This telling of a true story is a fine work from all concerned and for this viewer it is one of the best films of recent years . Grady Harp
When Less is More	HALF NELSON is one of those rare breed of films that takes a unique idea , wraps it in an intelligent script , finds the perfect actors to bring the story to life , and does it all on a minimal budget that goes for the jugular rather than the glitz of promotion . It is a little miracle of a movie . Dan Dunne ( Ryan Gosling in a breakout performance ) is an idealistic , fervent teacher recently graduated from college with a profound desire to make things different - in education and in the world . He is assigned to a junior high school in the ghetto where he is one of the rare white teachers for a black and Hispanic population : the principal is a hardnosed black lady who has rigid rules about curriculum and tutorial techniques . Dunne teaches his own way , involving his students in understanding rather than memorizing history . He is committed to his ideals but his technique is very student friendly and his class respects his demeanor . Very subtly he draws out the significance of important historical events , allowing the students to embrace the essence of civil rights rather than the rhetoric of the usual classroom approach . Dunne has a problem : he has learned to temper his frustrations and ambitions by escaping into drugs and he uses cocaine to soften his world . The ' crisis ' of the story is the juncture when his brightest student Drey ( Shareeka Epps in a stunning performance ) discovers Dunne's secret when she catches him smoking crack in the very gym where Dunne is coaching an all-girl basketball team . With minimal words and maximal eye contact and tacit understanding Dunne and Drey bond . Drey is lonely : her brother is in prison for dealing drugs , her mother is works double time as a security officer to support them , and her brother's friend Frank ( Anthony Mackie ) coerces Drey into delivering drugs to his clients . How the bond between Dunne and Drey plays is the message of the film . This is not a physical love relationship but a sensitive fulfillment of needs between two bright people on the cusp of society's flaws . Ryan Fleck directs this film with the most subtle and sensitive technique , allowing us to view the flaws as well as the virtues of his characters . The script written by both Fleck and Anna Boden is creative in the classroom communication and minimal in the interplay outside the classroom , allowing the words to be superseded by eye messages and silence that is deafening . Gosling and Epps are brilliant in their ability to keep their characters credible , never opting for histrionics , always choosing to underplay potentially volatile scenes . The supporting cast is equally fine with the majority of the actors being in their first film and the others are solid professionals from previous quiet films . HALF NELSON is a wholly successful accomplishment , a film whose value will grow through repeated viewings and with history of cinema . Grady Harp
' Being a Winner is only a state of mind '	and being a winner of a film based on so many potentially disastrous bits of black comedy works exceedingly well ! As opposed to some of the movies of the recent past ( Borat , American Pie , Waiting , the National Lampoon endless series , etc ) LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE starts with a smart script by Michael Arndt that addresses many of the highly dysfunctional family elements present in today's society and allows us to hold a few mirrors up to our own vaguely warped view of good and bad , right and wrong , ambition and self destructive delusion and makes us laugh - at times embarrassed , at times just having fun ! Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris direct this odd little story of a family in Albuquerque , NM , a family comprised of a grandfather ( Alan Arkin ) whose ' elderly status ' allows him to speak inappropriately grossly and frankly to his grandchildren while snorting coke in the bathroom ; a father ( Greg Kinnear , who just gets better and better ) with a motivational program scheme that is melting toward failure ; a mother ( the extraordinary Toni Collette ) who attempts to cope with her role as the matriarch of this weird group ; the mother's brother ( Steve Carell ) , a gay Proustian scholar who has just lost his job over an affair with a grad student and has survived an unsuccessful suicide attempt ; a space-cadet teenage son ( Paul Dano ) who is in a vow of silence as he pursues Nietzsche and extracting promises for his future from his intimidated parents ; and last , but most important , a chubby little sister Olive ( Abigail Breslin ) who dotes on Miss America pageant reruns on TV and longs to tryout for the Little Miss Sunshine beauty / talent show for little girls in Southern California . The bulk of the film is a road trip which confines this very strange family in an RUV headed for the only bit of positive hope for change in Olive's ploy to become Little Miss Sunshine . Along the trip we get to know these oddballs personally and in the end the results of the family effort competition seem almost secondary to the fun of getting there . Each of the performers is at peak form in acting and the direction and pacing would be difficult to improve . The film accomplishes what comedy sets as a goal : it entertains us while allowing us to take a second look at our own foibles , and that makes for a fun and healthy outing . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Faith , Hope , and Charity - with a little help from the Saints	Danny Boyle ( ' 28 Days Later ' , ' Trainspotting ' , ' A Life Less Ordinary ' ) has a way with stories that transports a good script ( in this case one by Frank Cottrell Boyce ) into a cinematic range that creates magic . MILLIONS may seem like a little family tale on the surface , but in Boyle's hands this story about the struggle between Janus ethics vaults off into magical realism , happily taking the audience along for a journey of wonder and joy and the importance of charity . Damian ( Alexander Nathan Etel ) and his older brother Anthony ( Lewis Owen McGibbon ) are moved by their father Ronnie ( James Nesbitt ) to a new housing project after the untimely death of the boys ' mother . The brothers are devoted to each other yet Anthony is the pragmatist while Damian is the dreamer , a lad who regularly has visions and poignant conversations with dead saints , always asking if they know anything about St . Maureen ( his recently deceased mother ) . Damian believes in miracles and when suddenly a Nike bag containing a quarter of a million British pounds falls on his playhouse he believes it is from God and that it is his responsibility to distribute the money to the poor . When he shares the secret with Anthony , the latter's psyche begins to organize ways to spend and invest the money - because the British sterling will soon convert to the Euro making the bag's stash useless . The journey of how the two brothers cope with their instant fortune and how they cope with their family minus one forms the line of the film . There are good guys , bad guys , various saints , hilarious encounters with mundane ethically bifurcated folks like a Mormon team - all of whom make the visual and emotional aspects of this film thoroughly entertaining . The actors , especially young Atel , are superb and Boyle's use of the magical ignites the story into an unforgettable fable and tale of humanity . Highly recommended for everyone to see . Grady Harp
Appreciating and Celebrating the Extended Family	Ferzan Ozpetek understands as well as any writer / director today the concept and attending importance of Extended Family . Much as he spoke about the importance of friends who are often more supportive than genetic family in his beautiful film HIS SECRET LIFE , he explores a similar topic in his latest exceptional film SATURNO CONTRO ( SATURN IN OPPOSITION ) . Ozpetek and his co-writer Gianni Romoli have created a story about camaraderie , celebration , shared loss , consolation , and healing among a rather disparate group of Romans that manages to not only underscore our human needs , but also demonstrates how nearly insurmountable hurdles can be managed by the kindness and understanding of true friends . Davide ( Pierfrancesco Favino ) is a much admired writer who lives with his artist partner Lorenzo ( Luca Argentero ) in a healthy , loving relationship . Davide has many admirers who wish to fall under his influence as a writer and Lorenzo likewise has many friends who are devoted to him . These friends gather at the home of Davide and Lorenzo for meals , parties and celebrations - a place where each of the friends finds compassion for whatever is nibbling away at their happiness . Davide's close friend Antonio ( Stefano Accorsi ) is married to the beautiful Angelica ( Margherita Buy ) who is writing a book about smoking and is not aware that her husband is having an affair with florist Laura ( Isabella Ferrari ) until a mutual friend , translator Neval ( Serra Yilmaz ) - caring for both friends ' concerns - shares the information . The possible disastrous discovery is overshadowed by the sudden subarachnoid hemorrhage suffered by Lorenzo during a communal meal . Each of the friends ' lives are halted while they gather at the hospital awaiting the inevitable death of their friend - each with open arms of support for Davide and each other as they find their way through dealing with the circle of life . The story places Lorenzo's tragedy near the beginning of the film : the resolution and coping of the large number of this extended family form the message and the sidebars that explore the sanctity of friendship and caring . There are myriad moments of rare beauty in this little film , moments that include the tenderness of Lorenzo's father's acceptance of Davide's relationship to his son as the funeral is passing , the wordless mending that the death of a friend brings to the dissolving marriage of Angelica and Antonio , and many others . This is a beautifully photographed film ( Gian Filippo Corticelli ) and one with a musical score ( Giovanni Pellino ' Neffa ' ) that is so subtle that it supports without distraction ( much like the presence of Extended Families ! ) . The acting is of the highest quality from some of Italy's finest actors . We can only hope that Ferzan Oztepek continues to create meaningful films such as this for a world that too often settles for finding solace as well as happiness from artificial sources outside the circle of human relationships . In Italian with subtitles . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
' Look to the sky , and never ever hate '	LOOK TO THE SKY ( ' Jona che visse nella balena ' ) is a little marvel of a film , one that stays with the viewer long after the credits are completed . Originally made in 1993 in Italy from a story by Hugh Fleetwood and Roberto Faenza ( who also directs ) , this honored film re-visits the Holocaust but almost entirely through a child's eyes . The complicity between the youthful innocence and the unspeakable reality results in a story , rendered by a superb cast , that shares an entirely different light on the effect of the Nazi ' Jewish Solution ' . Jonah at five years old ( New Zealander Luke Petterson who was indeed age 5 when the movie was made ) in 1942 lives in Amsterdam with his loving mother ( Juliet Aubrey ) and father ( Jean-Hugues Anglade ) in a family situation that is filled with love and optimism . Into this setting advance the Nazi occupiers , brand all of the Jews with yellow stars and gradually sequester them , making life crowded and difficult . Jonah narrates all of the action and his viewpoint is untainted by the reality of what is happening . His family is finally removed from their home and transported to a Dutch village where Jonah is told they will all be headed for Palestine soon . But instead of Palestine the intact family is transported to a concentration camp where Jonah and his mother are separated from his father . Jonah watches as his mother is in forced labor and makes friends with other children as best he can , even winning a place in the kitchen for food secretly delivered by the camp cook . Jonah ages to 8 years ( Jenner Del Vecchio ) and though frail he is able to exist under the protection and feigned optimism of his mother who repeatedly advises Jonah that whenever the world seems bad , ' look to the sky and never ever hate ' . Jonah's father is allowed to see his family for a stolen moment , a time when the father and mother attempt to hide their anguish in a moment of passion , a moment Jonah witnesses . Soon after , his father dies and eventually his mother dies at the moment when the Allied Forces are freeing the prisoners . Jonah is returned to Amsterdam where he is taken in by friends of the family and how he deals with his memories so firmly embedded in his mind and manages to go on living is the tender ending to the story . The 5-year-old Luke Petterson is a wonder as Jonah , managing to create a credible character almost entirely by facial expressions ( his lines are minimal ) . And Aubrey and Anglade are superb as is the young Jenner Del Vecchio and the rest of the supporting cast . The film is in English , Yiddish , and German but is without subtitles - a factor that actually enhances the story as Jonah does not understand the words of the Nazis , only their actions , and that places the audience in a compatible mindset with the child . The cinematography by János Kende captures the essence of beauty of Amsterdam as well as the horrors of the concentration camp and the award-winning score by Ennio Morricone is one of this master's finest . Few films dealing with the Holocaust are as moving as this . It is a must see for all viewers . Grady Harp
A Splendid Little Film the Challenges the Mind and Forges New Ground	THE NINES is a film that may seem like a tough story to follow , but the concept and the ' autobiographical ' script by the gifted John August are so fine that once seen , this film demands re-visiting . It is tremendously entertaining , blessed with a superb cast , and offers food for thought far beyond the running time of the film . For this viewer it falls into the ' brilliant ' category . More of an existential exercise than a traditional movie tale , THE NINES has the courage to challenge our concept of that is the real world , what is fantasy , what exists beyond our concept of our ' space ' here on planet Earth , and just how significant is the current obsession with television reality shows and videogames on the way we are stuck in the present . John August explores these issues by interweaving three stories , using the same actors to change vantages and personalities to raise questions and pose problems for the audience to attempt to resolve . It works . Part I ( ' The Prisoner ' ) views the life of a famous television personality Gary ( Ryan Reynolds ) who naïvely takes on a ' crack ' trip that results in a house arrest controlled by a jovial officer Margaret ( Melissa McCarthy ) and whose only outlet is a neighbor Sarah ( Hope Davis ) with whom he has a seductive affinity : while both women appear real , events occur that make their existence questionable to the crack-addled Gary . In Part II , ' Reality Television ' , Gavin ( Reynolds ) is a television writer attempting to get his pilot film accepted by executive boss Susan ( Davis ) , but falls into troubled times when he is told his best friend Melissa ( McCarthy ) must be dropped from the project . In Part III , ' Knowing ' , Gabriel ( Reynolds ) is a gentle video game creator , happily married to Mary ( McCarthy ) with a daughter Noelle ( Elle Fanning ) who has been weaving in and out of the film as different characters , gets stuck in a forest and in attempting to seek help encounters Sierra ( Davis ) , a strange woman who finally approaches the possibilities of Gabriel's ' mission on earth ' . The title of the movie becomes apparent when Sierra informs Gabriel that while God is a 10 , human beings are only 7s , koala bears are 8s because they control the environment , and Gabriel is a 9 - an extraterrestrial being in a human incarnation to test the goodness of the earth . How this information affects Gabriel and how the story is resolved is yet more of the intellectual exercise and joy of THE NINES . Ryan Reynolds is extraordinarily fine in his three roles : he is a far better actor than the usual films he makes would indicate . Hope Davis and Melissa McCarthy are as always reliably excellent . But the magic of this film comes form the mind and direction of John August who thankfully gives the audience much to ponder . It is a gem of a film . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Concerto for Trio and Arctic Tundra	FAR NORTH is a bleak , disturbing story about isolation , relationships and revenge . Director Asif Kapadia adapted this minimal dialogue screenplay with Tim Miller based on the story ' True North ' by Sara Maitland , and even with the strong trio of actors , have managed to maintain the main character as the vast , natural , incomprehensibly difficult ice seas of the northern cap of the globe . The film is as majestically beautiful as the story is terrifying . Saiva ( Michelle Yeoh ) was pronounced evil by a shaman who witnessed her birth : any person who comes near her will fall to harm . Cast out from her tribe , Saiva has survived into adulthood accompanied by the young girl Anja ( Michelle Krusiec ) she has raised , living a simple existence in tents , dependent on any available food , and always in hiding from a strange pursuing army of soldiers : flashbacks show how Saiva had been physically abused by this strange band of wandering men . When danger approaches , the two women simply move on . Saiva finds an injured and starving soldier Yoki ( Sean Bean ) who is likewise escaping from the marauding band , and brings him into her tent , nursing him to health , exchanging signs of friendship to a stranger that seems so natural yet so foreign to guarded Saiva . As Yoki recovers , Anja's curiosity about love and men is heightened and soon Anja and Yoki are planning to strike out on their own . When Saiva witnesses the passion between the two people in her life , she reacts as a threatened animal and the horrors that follow echo across the frozen ice of her isolated life . Michelle Yeoh is astonishingly fine in this difficult role and Krusiec and Bean provide solid ensemble support . Praise must go to Asif Kapadia for his tense direction of this thriller , but kudos are also in order for the extraordinary cinematography by Roman Osin and the appropriately eerie musical score by Dario Marianelli . Much of what happens in this film is shocking to the viewer's senses , but it so in keeping with the animal responses in nature that it says much about our concept of ' civilization ' . FAR NORTH is a remarkable achievement . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Paul Greengrass Creates the Impossible : Capturing the Horror of	Though it has been over five years since the devastation of the memory lives on , a day no one will ever forget - nor should we . This viewer waited until UNITED 93 was released on DVD to view it , thinking that watching the film in the security of the home might make it less threatening . But what Paul Greengrass has created in reconstructing those few hours in 2001 that changed the psyche of the world forever is an achievement in courage , in understatement , and in respect - as fine a memorial as any that has been planned . In using not easily recognizable but very fine actors in all of the roles , Greengrass allows his script to unfold gradually in the relaxed atmosphere of the usual air flight plans and minor delays , conversations heard by all of us as we await a take off of a plane . Concurrently he shows the four men , whose mission is to destroy ' the oppressors ' , prepare , pray , dress , and board . Then he moves into the planning rooms of air control , lets us feel the insidious progression of the hijacked planes , shows us the military response and paralysis , places us back in United 93 , and unfolds the recognition by the crew and passengers of the danger in which they have been placed . The acts of heroism seem like natural permutations of human response all the way to the final abrupt dark screen when the plane goes down . The degree of tension Greengrass and his superlative cast and crew convey is almost intolerable : magnify that times infinity power and we have a glimpse of what it was like to be in United Flight 93 on September 11 , 2001 . The film is a remarkable achievement and is destined to become a hallmark for artistic representation of historic events . Highly Recommended on every level . Grady Harp
Making the Ordinary and the ' Unordinary ' Extraordinary	NEVERWAS , a little miracle of a movie written and directed by Joshua Michael Stern , is an allegory , a fairytale , a dissection of the impact of mental illness on parents and children , and story of compassion , believing , and blossoming of character that was created with a sterling ensemble of actors in 2005 , failed to find a niche in theatrical distribution , and went straight to DVD - becoming one of those limited release films that is very elusive even in the megavideo stores . The reasons for this relative anonymity are not clear , but film lovers will do well searching out this little gem : the rewards are immediate gratification and long lasting satisfaction . Narrated by Ian McKellan who plays a major role in the film , the story concerns the return of psychiatrist Zachary Riley / Small ( Aaron Eckhart ) to an obsolete mental institution named Millhouse , the hospital where his author father T . L . Pierson ( Nick Nolte ) ended his days in suicide , having suffered from bipolar syndrome . Zach wants to discover secrets about his father , why his father's book ' Neverwas ' has been so disturbing to Zach , and to offer good medical treatment to those patients living in the obscure hospital run by the kindly but enigmatic Dr . Reed ( William Hurt ) . Zach is buoyant , greets his new job with joy , and works with various patients in group and individual therapy ( the group includes well developed characters portrayed by Alan Cumming , Vera Farmiga , and Michael Moriarty , among others ) and encounters the apparently mute Gabriel Finch ( Ian McKellan ) , a delusional man who believes Zach has returned to break the curse preventing his return to his imaginary kingdom of Neverwas . Zach meets a ' grad student botantist ' / reporter Ally ( Brittany Murphy ) who loves Zach's father's book and urges Zach to read the fairytale as a means to assuage Zach's new nightly nightmares and insomnia dealing with images of himself as a child , his father's suicide , and other strange forces . Ally's commitment to Zach's father's book , Zach's breakthrough to Gabriel Finch , together with Zach's re-evaluation of his agoraphobic mother ( Jessica Lange ) all intertwine to reestablish Zach's discovery of his relationship to a father whose mental illness prevented the close relationship Zach so desperately missed . In a tumbling set of events that incorporate the fairytale of the book Neverwas with the reality of Zach's father's relationship to Gabriel Finch brings the story to a heartwarming , well considered , touching conclusion . Being ' unordinary ' is a goal , not a curse . In addition to the above-mentioned stellar cast , small parts are also created by Bill Bellamy , Ken Roberts , Cynthia Stevenson among others . The cinematography by Michael Grady manages to keep the audience balanced between real and fantasy and the musical score by renowned composer Philip Glass fits the story like a glove . Ian McKellan gives a multifaceted performance of a man whose delusional life is far more real than his life as a mental patient , Aaron Eckhart finesses the transformation of the lost child seeking his roots with great skill , Nick Nolte gives one of his finer interpretations as the disturbed father / author , and Brittany Murphy manages to maintain a much needed lightness to the atmosphere of the mental institution story setting . The impact of the film , while absorbing from the first images , is the ending , a reinforcement of the importance of love and nurturing that too often is relegated to little books for children instead of the manner in which we live our lives . This is a fine film well worth ferreting out from the obscurity to which it so unjustly has been assigned . Grady Harp
Where does Championship Lie - in the Body or in the Head ?	SWIMMING UPSTREAM is a brilliantly acted , deeply involving and ultimately uplifting film from Australia that deserves major audience exposure . Based on a true story of one of Australia's many championship athletes , this story is not merely another biopic ( although it was autobiographically written by Anthony Fingleton , the subject of the film ) : this is a story about large families of poverty , about the tragedies that befall families husbanded by an alcoholic abusive father , and about the ultimate triumph of the individual soul rising out of such conditions . Harold Fingleton ( Geoffrey Rush ) is a drunk , a blue collar worker who has sired five children by a strong but enabling wife Dora ( Judy Davis ) , a man whose focus on sports finds a possible escape from his joblessness when he discovers that his two middle sons Tony ( Jesse Spencer ) and the younger John ( Tim Draxl ) are able swimmers . For reasons unclear Harold focuses on John and while he relentlessly coaches both of the boys at the town pool every day , he decides John is going to be the champion swimmer in Australia . Tony excels in the backstroke and eventually surpasses his beloved brother John's times and proceeds to win the honors Harold expected of John . Throughout this tale of competition in swimming we are privy to the competition within the home . Harold , Jr ( David Hoflin ) is initially the bully yet gradually succumbs to his father's alcoholic lifestyle . Dora is beaten and abused yet is always there for her children , eking out a living and soothing the flare-up tantrums during Harold's drunken states . Tony and John cycle through periods of mutual adulation and the alternative fierce competition into which they are thrown by their father : their evolving bond is unforgettably touching . When Tony at last reaches the peak of his swimming potential , winning medals and applause form his countrymen , he still tries to grasp the love of a father whose is so consumed by his own demons that he is unable to acknowledge Tony's success . Tony's eventual choice of leaving Australia for either the Olympics or for a scholarship to Harvard in the USA provides some of the most touching moments between the various members of this long-suffering family . The direction by Russell Mulcahy is keenly paced , making excellent use of flashbacks to the significant moments in the family's history , and electing to use the split screen technique to underline the tension of the swimming meets while focusing on the faces of the family . As Tony , Jesse Spencer is both wonderful to watch ( he does his own swimming and he is a perfect physical specimen ! ) and reveals acting gifts that are usually those of more seasoned performers . Indeed , Rush , Davis and Draxl also give spellbinding performances that are born of nuance and understatement . In a family where there could be polarization of response from the audience , each of the actors is so fine that we are able to find the complete personas of these disparate people and find warmth and understanding for all of them . One wonders why this film was not heralded in the theatrical release , as it is one of the finer movies to come out in years . Both Geoffrey Rush and Judy Davis give outstanding , award deserving performances . The DVD includes all of the ' deleted scenes ' and it is highly recommended to view these important inexplicably cut moments as they truly enhance the film . Very Highly Recommended ! Grady Harp
' New Mexico can overwhelm you . . . '	OFF THE MAP is so unique a film that comparisons pale . Adapted from her own play Joan Ackermann has written a screenplay whose main character is the high desert of New Mexico and the magical influence that natural beauty and tranquility of the place has on people . Campbell Scott directs this intimate little story with such tenderness and intelligence that he has created what doubtless will become a cult classic . The time is the early 1970s , and the location is an isolated single home north of Taos owned by a strange family who live on less than $5000 . a year by being at one with the land for its provisions . Charley ( Sam Elliott ) is in a chronically depressive state , unable to speak much and preferring to simply sit in the dark and periodically weep . His resilient wife Arlene ( Joan Allen ) fends for the family , gardening for food and hunting for meat , selling crafts at the periodic fairs in Taos , and caring for her husband . Their daughter Bo ( Valentina de Angelis ) is 11 and not only fully capable of living the life style of her family , but also at the same time longing for the ability to leave home and see the world , a desire she feeds by wisely devising rebates on food purchases , applications for credit cards etc . The family's solid friend is George ( JK Simmons ) who has known Charley since their Korean War days and is fraught with his friend's severe depression . Into this physically gorgeous terrain that is home to this odd family comes an IRS agent William Gibbs ( Jim True-Frost ) sent by his new government boss to collect back taxes from the family who has not seen the necessity to pay taxes on their below modest income . William approaches the house , sees Arlene gardening in the nude , is stung by a bee , and lapses into an allergic reaction , a situation that makes him a patient in the household for some days . Bo is fascinated with this ' man form the outside world ' , Arlene cares for the patient , and Charley quietly opens up to him once William recovers . William's car has been stripped in the desert and he is invited to live with the family until the car is restored . Each of the family members is changed by William's presence , but none more than William himself who undergoes an epiphany viewing the Sangre de Cristo mountains approach sunset : William forsakes his previous life , begins to paint with watercolors George had intended for Charley as a therapeutic venture , and informs Arlene that he has fallen in love with her . The entire group influence each other's lives and the manner in which this happens is such rare magic that saying more in a review would be unfair to those who have yet to experience this film . The entire cast is absolutely superb , so much so that it is impossible to name the Star : Sam Elliott , Joan Allen , Valentina de Angelis , Jim True-Frost , and JK Simmons give stunning performances , the quality of acting that takes full advantage of silences , body language , probing into the characters , and most important - understanding the importance of ensemble acting . Yet if one must name the standout performance , it would be the radiant mystical land of New Mexico as captured by cinematographer Juan Ruiz Anchía . Campbell Scott has directed a great screenplay and cast in one of the best movies of the year . It is a quiet , majestic work of art . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
' To this we've come '	Cormac McCarthy's novel NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN has been successfully transformed into a film in the skilled hands of Ethan and Joel Coen . The story is intact , the characters are given the dialog so uniquely McCarthy's invention , and the horror of the message of the book - that we have come to a point in time when crime , especially random murder , surrounds our lives - is , if anything , even more pungent than on the pages of the book . It is an amazing , and a highly disturbing movie , and while this viewer is one of the few who does not believe it deserved the Oscar for Best Picture , there is little doubt that it is a brilliant piece of cinema . The story is fairly simple : on the raw plains of Texas a slaughter of men and dogs engaged in a drug deal is discovered by a simple guy Llewelyn Moss ( Josh Brolin ) . Moss observes the mayhem , sees the drugs , finds the 2 million dollar payoff money , takes the money , and embarks on an escape , leaving his wife Carla ( Kelly Macdonald ) to escape the pursuit of a mad killer Chigurh ( Javier Bardem ) who in turn is being pursued by the local sheriff ( Tommy Lee Jones ) and a hired hit-man ( Woody Harrelson ) . The satchel of money contains a tracking device and Chigurh has the instrument necessary to follow the trail the device leads . The remainder of the film is the pursuit both in Texas and in Mexico , accompanied by countless brutal murders of all sorts by the crazed Chigurh , until a surprise ending . But the toughest part of this violent film is more in the discussion of shared philosophies between the sheriff and his old cronies : they reflect on the sad state of universal crime that is so different and more malevolent than in the ' old days ' . The conversations , in the superb dialog of these old men , bring our attention to some realities we would rather not confront , and those realities are even more disturbing than the repeated images of bloated bodies and senseless murders that fill the screen . Jones , Brolin , and Bardem are indeed superb in their roles , but the small cameos of the townsfolk of Texas are little gems of acting and direction . This is a difficult film to watch because of all of the violence , but the message is one we must heed . We may be allowing the creation of ' no country for any men ' . Grady Harp
Serendipity as Chamber Music	Often a film succeeds because of the story , or the writing , or the cast , or the direction . HEIGHTS succeeds brilliantly because of the combination of all of these elements in one of the finest films of the past few years . Beginning with the play and screenplay by Amy Fox , and as carefully and lovingly directed by Chris Terrio with a sterling cast , this film works its subtle magic of a story about serendipity and coincidences and how these alter our lives by accidental occurrences . Or are they accidental ? Each of the well-drawn characters in this story is functioning at a level that involves the masks behind which we each hide our personal secrets or idiosyncrasies : each character is either at a ' height ' or approaching one , and it is the interplay of these disparate people that creates phrases of music which ultimately combine in a series of themes and variations like a well-composed work of chamber music . And this all occurs within a twenty-four hour period in Manhattan . Diana ( Glenn Close ) is the reigning New York actress currently preparing a production of ' Macbeth ' with friend director Henry ( Eric Bagosian ) while simultaneously giving Master Classes at Julliard to a group of acting students who she declares lack passion ! Diana's ' height ' is challenged by her current anxiety over her open-marriage husband's rather serious affair with one of her students . She holds auditions and a young , struggling , and handsome actor Alec ( Jesse Bradford ) catches her interest and she sees in him the passion she craves and invites him to her party that evening . Alec , fearful of his chance at his ' height ' , hesitantly accepts . Meanwhile Diana's photographer daughter Isabel ( Elizabeth Banks ) is fired from her portrait job only to be offered an important gig in Eastern Europe by an ex-lover , offering Isabel a chance at her own ' height ' . Isabel is engaged to young ambitious lawyer Jonathan ( James Marsden remembered for this superb acting in ' The 24th Day ' ) who in preparing to marry a non-Jew is in counseling with his Rabbi ( George Segal ) : there are obviously stresses on the incipient marriage that Jonathan has not revealed . In another area of Manhattan , at Vanity Fair , Liz ( Isabella Rosselini ) taps reporter Peter ( John Light ) to do a story on a famous and gifted photographer known for bedding his nude male models . Peter is to interview each of the models for the story , and one of those models happens to be Jonathan ! The entire group comes together at Diana's party and there the secrets of each of the characters gradually surface in coincidental ways and the story of how each of these interesting but tainted people respond to discoveries makes for the resolution of the story . Director Terrio uses finely honed techniques to slowly introduce each character , adding layers of information gradually , until the magnitude of these coincidences becomes dramatically tense and fascinating . This film is like standing in a darkroom watching a photograph slowly develop , revealing more of the details with each washing , until the final picture is filled with extraordinary details - some expected , others not . The cast is wholly superb and the degree of ensemble acting surpasses that of films of the recent past . If there is a criticism of the film it is a minor one : the ambient sound and musical scoring at times cover the dialog which make us strain to hear the whispered interchanges . But this is a brilliant film that immediately assumes a role in the pantheon of fine cinematic art . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Very Dark but Enormously Successful Unique Film	' Jamón , jamón ' is a tremendously creative movie by director José Juan Bigas Luna and his writing partner Cuca Canals ( Son de mar , Volavérunt , Bámbola , Lumière et compagnie , La Teta y la luna , and Huevos de oro ) , a film that is a dark comedy but not in the ho-ho manner : the comedy is the human comedy and watching it evolve may at times make the viewer avert the eyes because of its truthfulness . Silvia ( a very young Penélope Cruz ) lives with her prostitute mother ( Stefania Sandrelli ) in a truck stop bordello , obviously in the lower caste of society . Silvia works in the Under Wear factory owned by the parents ( Anna Galiena and Juan Diego ) of Penelope's boyfriend José Luis ( Jordi Molla ) . Penelope is pregnant by José Luis but of course this low class association will never do to his mother so she sets about to distract Silvia from José Luis's attentions . Enter a ham seller and wannabe bullfighter Raúl ( the very buff and hunky young Javier Bardem ) who is a macho as they come ( a night scene where Raúl and his handsome friend played by Tomás Martín fight a bull in the nude is the pinnacle of machismo ! ) whom the mother hires to distract Silvia . But the plot thickens when the intended coupling becomes crazily rearranged ( Raúl has sex with José Luis's mother , José Luis seeks out the corporal companionship of Silvia's prostitute mother , José Luis's father grasps for Silvia , etc ) until the sextet comes to a strange ending on the twilight plains of Spain . This color-saturated movie by cinematographer José Luis Alcaine is a visual delight and the accompanying musical score by Nicola Piovani adds just the right amount of spice . But it is the extraordinary acting of the young actors who were to become international stars - Penélope Cruz , Javier Bardem , and Jordi Mollà - that bring the excitement and aura of sensuality to this very controversial film . José Juan Bigas Luna is a terrific combination of Dalí , Almodóvar , Cocteau , and Buñuel , but he carries his dark comedic sense into the critical eye of the human microscope . The film is a delight and a joy to see , if only to watch the three big names at their early stages ! Grady Harp
' Beautiful Boxer ' is a Beautiful Film Indeed !	Rising even higher than the greatest expectations engendered by the International Press when it became a favorite of the film festivals , BEAUTIFUL BOXER is one of the more poetic , sensitive , luxuriously vivid and colorful films to come out of Thailand - and that is saying a lot , given the extravagant epics that yearly grow in popularity . This work of art is simply stunning in content , in direction , in acting , and in heartfelt simplicity of message . This is a great one ! Writer / director Ekachai Uekrongtham based his first film on the true story of Parinaya Charoemphol AKA Nong Toom , a famous Thai athlete Muay Thai boxer ( better known as ' kick boxer ' - a demanding , dangerous sport ) who entered the world of Muay Thai to garner enough money to help his family and pay for his ultimate sex-change surgery . A tough story to offer general audiences , perhaps , but Ekachai Uekrongtham presents this edgy biography with such cinematic finesse and care that it becomes a film that should appeal to a very wide audience . And much of that success is due to the towering performance by Asanee Suwan in his acting debut : Suwan is in life a professional kick boxer who won the title role after extensive auditions by many practitioners of Muay Thai . BEAUTIFUL BOXER takes us through the life of Nong Toom , his childhood in a family of loving accepting parents who respect his love of beauty and things feminine , his brief period of being a monk who must leave the monastery because of his inclinations , through his introduction to makeup and play-acting women's roles in the Thai theaters , his ridicule as being more girl than boy ( a fact that results in his parents ' incarceration ! ) , and his devoted friendship with a girl who supports his desire for femininity and a young man who stands up for him in the boys ' camp for learning sports . Gradually Nong Toom realizes that the only way he can make enough money to achieve a sex change operation is to become a successful kick boxer and he aligns himself with a trainer Pi Chart ( Sorapong Chatree ) and with much commitment and practice becomes Thailand's most famous Muay Thai . His self-respect is further established when he openly wears makeup in the boxing ring , causing many to believe his act is a gimmick and not the manifestation of his true transsexualism . He fights the toughest opponents and wins consistently until he at last arrives in Toyko for the ' big purse ' of fighting female wrestler Kyoko Inoue ( who plays herself ) . With the money from the fight he is able to have his surgery and becomes the famous actress and model now living in Bangkok . Under less sensitive eyes and minds this story could have become audacious , but instead the film elects to be sensitive to the transsexual conviction that Nong Toom is a woman trapped in a man's body , and it is the journey of self acceptance and personal victory that makes the story so deeply touching . Asanee Suwan , as a fine athlete , does all of his own fighting in the film and it is more choreography than brutality . He is amazing to watch and coupled with the fact that he is so wholly convincing in his fine acting that he makes this young transsexual utterly credible in movement , emotional density , and purity of vision is an extraordinary achievement . Yes , the film has a few flaws of editing and other minor aspects , but the overwhelming power of the story more than compensates for those ' first film ' learning curves . Highly recommended for ALL audiences , especially for those who fear there will be gratuitous physical scenes that might offend . There are none ! Grady Harp
Remembering	Twenty years later , after PLATOON was released in 1986 and brought some of the horrors of the Vietnam experience to the public's media-jaundiced eye , at last the film can be seen and discussed critically . ' At last ' , in this viewer's vocabulary , includes the fact that more time for healing from actually being in Vietnam in 1968 and 1969 has passed , making the response to Oliver Stone's film more rational . Now the film is a film , not a nightmare memory inducer , and that fact in no way diminishes the power of the message . Oliver Stone wrote and directed this musing on the effect of war on the psyche and emotional crippling that Vietnam produced in those who survived . Stone was there and that makes his cinematic lead Chris ( Charlie Sheen ) , an random kid from a privileged family who volunteers to go to Vietnam for ' patriotic reasons ' , an exception in the platoon to which he is assigned , the leader of which is the mentally broken and emotionally scarred Staff Sgt . Bob Barnes ( Tom Berenger ) . Chris ' positive influence is Sgt . Elias Grodin ( Willem Dafoe ) , and the two are the polar opposites of evil and good . But the main characters of this gripping film are the other kids who daily are subjected to the horrors of life in the Vietnam jungles with the atrocious living conditions of filth , rain , heat , vermin , and the constant threat of the VC hidden in the atmosphere , ready to kill them at any moment . And these conditions along with the destructive effects of the government's insane war result in mankind stooping to its lowest level , such as decimating a village of people in the manner of My Lai . The combat scenes are viscerally rigorous and well staged , but the odd thing about seeing this film as a veteran of that war is how watered down the atrocities now seem : scenes of dead bodies , both US and VC , lying on the ground or being scooped into mass burials ignores the fact that in reality what would have been seen are strewed body parts , unrecognizably torn by booby traps , mines , and powerful gunfire . But there is only so much the public can tolerate and so the film must be tidied up a bit . The impact remains in the eyes of the actors called upon to recreate the veterans . Stone does his best to show the insanity of war , a statement as powerful as any that war must not be the answer in today's world . And we haven't learned . And that is what this viewer is remembering . Grady Harp
The Inquisition , The Salem Witch Trials , McCarthyism , etc !	Arthur Miller's powerful play from 1953 became his screenplay in 1996 for this devastatingly gritty film THE CRUCIBLE . While some may make negative comparisons between the power of the theatrical piece versus the immediacy of the film , it really matters little . The story , based on fact , is terrifying and all too familiar in flavor with the Inquisition , the Holocaust , the witch hunts of McCarthy's time , the misdeeds of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo , NSA wiretapping etc . Evil is evil and it must be addressed , and if this play / film helps us to recognize the madness of lies then it has served its purpose . The story is so well known that recounting it is superfluous : Abigail Williams ( Winona Ryder ) seethes as the discarded harlot who slept with the noble John Proctor ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) and gains her revenge by naming Proctor's wife Elizabeth ( Joan Allen ) as a witch - a person who walks and communicates with the devil ! As the disease of repression and superstition mounts , the citizenry of Salem calls in Judge Danforth ( Paul Scofield ) to try the accusations , and needless hangings of innocent victims occur until some semblance of reason is restored by John Proctor's fight for truth at the hanging post . As directed by Nicholas Hytner and photographed by Andrew Dunn , the dark atmosphere of Salem's dance with the devil is brilliantly captured . The cast is excellent , not only the stars ( Day-Lewis , Scofield , Allen , Ryder ) , but also the multiple well realized small roles . But towering over it all is Arthur Miller's immensely pungent script , written in the English as spoken in 1692 and all the more flavorful for the atmosphere of the work . This is as powerful as realization of a play as has been transferred to the screen . It is a must see for everyone concerned about the current state of our country's welfare . Grady Harp
' The Madness of Art '	STARTING OUT IN THE EVENING is a quietly moving work of art , a film adapted from Brian Morton's novel by screenwriters Fred Parnes and Andrew Wagner and directed by Andrew Wagner that dares to take us to the wall with decisions we make about how we conduct our lives and negotiate the changes that can either be stumbling blocks or stimuli for creative awareness , It has much to say about the creative process of writing , a theme upon which it first appears to be based , but it more importantly urges us to examine how we live - how we make use of this moment of time in which we inhabit a body in the universe . Leonard Schiller ( in an extraordinarily understated performance by Frank Langella ) is an aging author , a man whose first two novels seem to set the literary world on fire , but whose next two novels languished on the shelves and slipped into the same plane of obscurity Schiller finds his life since the death of hi wife . He has a daughter Ariel ( Lili Taylor in another richly hued performance ) who is nearing age forty and is unable to bond permanently with a man because of her obsession with having children before her biological clock ticks past fertility . Into their lives comes Heather Wolfe ( Lauren Ambrose ) , a bright young graduate student who has elected to write her master's thesis on the works of Leonard Schiller . Schiller is absorbed in writing what may be his last novel and can't be bothered with Heather's plea for a series of interviews . But curiosity intervenes and soon heather and Leonard are involved in the process of interviewing , a process which gradually builds into overtones of heather ' physical as well as intellectual attraction to Leonard . Meanwhile Ariel observes the process that seems to be infusing life into her father and encourages her to exit her current relationship with Victor ( Michael Cumpsty ) and re-connect with the true love of her life Casey ( Adrian Lester ) , a man she loves but who refuses to give her the children she so desperately wants . The manner in these characters interact and learn from each other the importance of sharing Life instead of obsessing with selfish goals brings the drama to a rather open-ended close , another factor that makes this story significantly better than most themes of May-December romance and unilateral coping with self centered directions . The pleasures of this film are many , but among the finest is the quality of acting by Langella , Taylor , Ambrose , and Lester . In many ways the story is a parallax of views of life as art that subtly intertwine like a fine string quartet . Why this film was ignored by the Oscars only suggests that movies for the mind take second place to movies for the merriment of entertainment . For people who enjoy the challenge of a meaty story , this film is a must . Grady Harp
Unsung Heroes sing Amazing Grace	AMAZING GRACE is a beautifully mounted , well-scripted , powerful film that reminds us that there were heroes in the late 1700s who vehemently fought the fight for abolition of slavery . Benefiting from a tight intelligent script by Steven Knight and directed with great sensitivity and fluidity by Michael Apted , the film captures the flavor of the turn of the 18th century into 19th century in England when slavery was a commodity the wealthy could ill afford to lose , and how the courage and perseverance of William Wilberforce created probably one of the first human rights movements on record . William Wilberforce ( Ioan Griffith ) witnessed the horrors of transporting slaves from Africa to be sold around the world to wealthy plantation owners and to serve as cheap and disrespected servants to the British populace . Encouraged by a previous slave dealer John Newton ( Albert Finney ) turned contrite priest , his friend Prime Minister William Pitt ( Benedict Cumberbatch ) , and the informed woman of his life Barbara Spooner ( Romola Garai ) , Wilberforce bonds with a band of abolitionists including Thomas Clarkson ( Rufus Sewell ) and Oloudaqh Equiano ( Youssou N'Dour ) and begins long years of battling for abolition in the Parliament where cads such as Lord Tarleton ( Ciarán Hinds ) and the Duke of Clarence ( Toby Jones ) fight his every word . One of the hallmarks of this fine film is the dignity it sustains : in a film that could have easily focused on depictions of slave abuse to make its point , it instead elects to keep the focus on the heart of the struggle against the inhumanity by subtle yet powerful means . The title of the film , of course , comes form the song the reformed John Newton wrote as he had a life altering experience to end his slave trading to fight for human rights . It is a haunting reminder that is used throughout the film in the score by David Arnold . The cast is uniformly excellent with not only first class performances by each of the leads , but also by superb cameos from such fine artists as Michael Gambon , Nicholas Farrell , Sylvestra Le Touzel , Jeremy Swift , and Stephen Campbell Moore . The atmosphere of both elegance and poverty of London is captured in the cinematography by Remi Adefarasin . This is an epic film with a powerful message that deserves the attention of us all . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Brilliant Film on Every Level	I'VE LOVED YOU SO LONG ( ' Il y a longtemps que je t'aime ) is novelist Phillipe Claudel's first screenplay ( he also serves as director ) . If this film is an indication of the themes and stories he has to tell then a new and gifted artist has come our way . Claudel knows how to take his audience along what appears to be a very quiet film while at the same time drawing the viewer into a story that feels like quicksand , so surely and gradually is the powerful element of the story revealed . Juliette ( a radiantly gifted Kristin Scott Thomas ) has been imprisoned for murder for fifteen years and is released to the care of her emotionally estranged sister Léa ( Elsa Zylberstein ) : when young physician Juliette was quietly sentenced to prison , the sisters ' parents disowned Juliette and raised Léa as an only child , refusing to allow her to communicate with her older sister . Léa is now married to Luc ( Serge Hazanavicius ) and the couple has adopted tow Vietnamese girls : Léa did not want to give birth to a child ( an early clue as to the horrors revealed ahead ) . Juliette is practically mute , so seldom does she converse , and Luc is worried about having Juliette in his house : the ' murder ' for which Juliette uncontestedly was imprisoned was her six year old son . Juliette meets with her parole officer Capitaine Fauré ( Frédéric Pierrot ) who is supportive and shares Juliette's view of the world . She is interviewed and denied jobs because of her crime , but meets a few people with whom she can connect - especially the kindly Michel ( Laurent Grévill ) . Gradually Juliette warms to her sister's family and to Léa to whom she tells the tragic facts of her past , facts that allow us to realize why Juliette is such a damaged creature . The profound acting performance by Kristen Scott Thomas is a wonder to watch . The entire cast to very fine but Scott Thomas is riveting in a story that in another's hands would not have gained our empathy to the extent she achieves . There is much social commentary in this film with many levels of meaning that only become apparent after the film is over . It is a stunning masterpiece and deserves the attention of everyone who appreciates quality cinema . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Celebration of Familial Love and Individual Resilience	C . R . A . Z . Y . is a miraculous little film from Quebec written with pitch perfect dialogue by Jean-Marc Vallée and François Boulay , on whose memories of his own experiences the story is based , directed with tremendous zest and sensitivity by Jean-Marc Vallée , and with a cast of fine actors that would be impossible to duplicate . Yes , it really is that fine . The title of the film may put some people off as silly , so let it be said early on that the letters C . R . A . Z . Y . represent the first names of the sons of the Beaulieu family - and the fun , hilarious and touching story starts from there ! Christmas Day is the birth of Zachary Beaulieu ( impressive Marc-André Grondin as a young man and Émile Vallée as a youth ) , the fourth son of Gervais Beaulieu ( a brilliant Michel Côté ) and his seemingly perpetually pregnant wife Laurianne Beaulieu ( Danielle Proulx , a superb actress ) , and at his birth he is immediately dropped on the floor , ' dies ' for a few seconds , and is resuscitated , a fact which later leads his mother to consult her Tupperware friend / seer about Zachary's power from God to heal other people . The children include Raymond who is a boisterous youth and later a worthless drifter / panhandler ( played by Pierre-Luc Brilliant as a young man but also played as a youth by Emmanuel Raymond and Antoine Côté-Potvin ) ; Christian ( Maxime Tremblay as a young man and Jean-Alexandre Létourneau as a youth ; Antoine ( Alex Gravel as a young man and Sébastien Blouin as a youth ; and Yvan ( Félix-Antoine Despatie and Gabriel Lalancette ) . Each brother has a particular personality , whether a bookworm , an athlete , a ne're-do-well or a dreamer and we watch the family adapt to each of the brothers ' idiosyncrasies . But it is Zachary who is the focal point as he struggles with his sexual identity from childhood on through his teenage denial years while dating a girl , to his final longing for the unreachable relationship with a man as an adult . His ' powers ' of healing he uses to great advantage for his family and he gradually becomes disenchanted with the omnipresent Catholic Church , a force that plays heavily in his fantasy life and dreams and fears . As the years pass from 1960 to 1971 we are allow to watch a family connect , fragment and ultimately survive , always bound to traditions of holiday and love . Gervais claims all of the good points of his boys as patterned after him , yet as he faces Zachary's possibly being gay he balks and it is only after a mesmerizing life changing experience Zachary undergoes that Zachary and Gervais finally find the mutual love they have both needed . Though the film is long ( running time is over two hours ) the film seems to fly past us like a comet of experience to which we all can relate . The performances are so very powerful that they sweep us away with the amount of love they exhibit : Danielle Proulx as the mother is so subtle in the little things she does for her beloved though at times wayward sons that she glows and Michel Côté steals the screen as a father searching for understanding of his crew of crazy boys . But the revelation is Marc-André Grondin's embodiment of Zachary that is nothing short of a miracle of acting . There is not a weak moment in this little masterpiece of film-making and one hopes that it will be released and widely publicized in the theaters in the USA as it deserves standing ovations ! Highly recommended . Grady Harp
' Eastern Promises ' Delivers !	EASTERN PROMISES as written by Steven Knight and directed by David Cronenberg is one of the grittiest , insightful , and well-acted films of the year . Maintaining his keen eye for the dark side of life and the people who dwell in its shadows , Cronenberg has once again brought us characters so strongly etched on film that they will be remembered for many years . The setting is London where lives the enigmatic Russian-born Nikolai Luzhin ( Viggo Mortensen in an Oscar caliber performance ) who serves as a driver for a cloaked mysterious Russian family , members of the Russian mafia called the Vory V Zakone , a bizarre brotherhood populated with men whose lives of crime are told in tattooed stories on their bodies . The head of the family is the elegant restaurateur Semyon ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) whose son Kirill ( Vincent Cassel ) carries on the crime aspects of the family but shows no role of leadership in his dissipated life style . As the film opens we observe the birth of a little girl to a drug-addled mother Tatiana ( Sarah-Jeanne Labrosse ) : she dies during childbirth having been delivered by a midwife Anna ( Naomi Watts ) who herself has a history of a stillborn child . Anna finds a diary in Tatiana's purse , saves it , and takes it to her uncle to translate it form the Russian . Opening the diary opens dark secrets for Semyon and Kirill : Tatiana was apparently one of the many illegal Russian prostitutes imported by the Vory V Zakone crime syndication and was raped by Semyon whose daughter was born as Tatiana died . Anna's investigation as to the baby's heritage includes the invaluable help of Nikolai who despite his past has a soft spot for Anna and her plight and it is the manner in which the interplay of Anna , Semyon , Kirill and Nikolai works out that brings the film to its conclusion . The acting is impeccable with Mortensen , Watts , Cassell , and Mueller-Stahl at peak form . Cameo roles by Sinéad Cusack and Jerzy Skolimowski , among others , are fully fleshed . The accents are believable and the multiple tattoos on Mortensen's body ( seen fully in the much ballyhooed bathhouse scene , more about killing than about voyeurism ) match the dark , dank atmosphere well captured by the cinematographer Peter Suschitzky and echoed with the musical score by Howard Shore . This is a tough movie for the squeamish to watch , but the story is superb and the film is Cronenberg at his best . Grady Harp
The Idealism of Youth and the Realism of Adulthood : Tempering the Blazes	' Die Fetten Jahre sind vorbei ' or THE EDUKATORS has a message , a message that deals with the ' education ' of the captains of industry by the idealistic socially conscious rebels among the youth AND the ' education ' of those rebellious youths by the world wise / weary hoarders of wealth whose life change resulted from being the rebellious youth of yesteryear . The dichotomy of opinions makes for a thoughtful and thought-provoking diatribe that lifts this film from an action movie into the realm of a psychological ' thriller ' of sorts . Peter ( Stipe Erceg ) and Jan ( Daniel Brühl ) have been close friends for fifteen years , share a flat , and spend their time attacking the corrupt society in which they resentfully find themselves by breaking in to wealthy peoples homes while the owners are away , rearranging all the furniture and leaving notes that inform them their days of lifestyle are doomed . They do not steal or damage : their acts are political and philosophical statements . Jan is the more idealistic of the two and also the more reclusive . Peter is gregarious and finds a live-in girlfriend Jule ( Julia Jentsch ) who slowly becomes attracted to Jan , more for bonding than for Peter's physical emphasis . Jule confesses to Jan that the reason she cannot accompany the good-hearted Peter on a trip to Spain is that she is deeply in debt , the result of an accident in her old car with a new Mercedes belonging to an older wealthy man Hardenburg ( Burghart Klaußner ) who is making Jule pay him the 100 , 000 Euros the car cost him . Jule is complying but is resentful that a man of wealth is so money conscious that he has overlooked the fact that his demands have made her life intolerable . When Jule is informed of Peter's and Jan's night capers , she suggests the trio make Hardenburg's home their next ploy . The result of a bluster , the trio is discovered by Hardenburg and they opt to kidnap him to prevent their going to jail . Retreating to a country cabin the now ' quartet ' slowly come to understand each other , with Hardenburg confessing that in his youth he too was a hippie and a member of a similarly socially conscious gang . He reminisces and gains the trio's respect , is instrumental in revealing the fact the what he believes is a ménage a trois is in reality a changing of partners for Jule , preferring Jan to Peter . How this new information alters the plans of the kidnapping and its resolution is the climax of the film and accompanies some surprises best left to the individual viewer's enjoyment . The actors are uniformly excellent : Daniel Brühl is rapidly growing into a very fine actor and Julia Jentsch is most assuredly a new actor to watch . The film gets a bit long in the tooth for the static situation of the final half , but the impact of the ending rescues the story from any flaws it may have had . Director Hans Weingartner understands the fine line between message films and entertaining movies and succeeds briskly with this one . THE EDUKATORS leaves us with food for thought no matter the age group - current rebels or aged rebels ! Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Learning the Meaning of Life in a Concentration Camp	' Sorstalansag ' ( FATELESS ) is an inordinately powerful , quiet journey through a year in Nazi Concentration Camps at Auschwitz , Buchenwald , and Zeitz . Adapted by Imre Kertesz from his first novel , the story is semi-autobiographical as Kertesz spent a year of his youth in Auschwitz as a Hungarian Jew . Though Kertesz alters his novel of the life of one Gyorgy Koves , in a manner he carefully explains in one of the featurettes accompanying this DVD , the observational skills and tenor of his literate mind suffuse this surprisingly quiet depiction of life in a death camp . We first meet Gyorgy Koves as a curly headed handsome 14-year old youth in 1944 bidding farewell to his beloved father as he departs for a labor camp . Wearing the yellow star of David proudly , Gyorgy has little understanding of what it is to be a Jew , a lesson he will learn in the coming year and affect his perception of the world and his place in it . Gyorgy's mother left his father and his father has remarried and requests that Gyorgy stay with his stepmother while he is away ' for a while ' in the labor camp . Gyorgy is conflicted as he loves his mother but he does as his father requests . Almost inadvertently Gyorgy and his friends are taken off a bus and separated by the Nazis into trains bound for concentration camps . Gyorgy remains relatively naive about what is happening : his head is shaved , his worldly goods are absconded , and he begins the hellish life of survival in Auschwitz . Where Kertesz writes differently than other authors who have described Holocaust conditions is in his mindset of Gyorgy : Gyorgy strives to retain a sense of equilibrium in this bizarre new life , seeing certain events as probable errors , mistakes , or simply ' the way things are ' . He endures starvation , brutal work , pain from an injured and infected knee , boredom , and observing sights of torture of his fellow prisoners . Though he is walking in a stunned world , he is still able to fine the little moments of ' happiness ' because of his youthful outlook and creative mind . He gradually grows to understand what being a Jew means , and while he is unable to fathom all he sees in captivity , he learns that if he can't understand life in a concentration camp , how can he understand life outside either . Gyorgy is literally on the carts moving toward the crematorium when the Allies free the camp . He meets an American ( Daniel Craig ) who suggests he not return to Budapest , but go to America instead where he can pursue a new existence . Yet Gyorgy's devotion to family , to country , and to being a Jew returns him to Budapest where he finds a destroyed city that had been home and wanders the town square trying to make sense of it all . As Gyorgy Koves , Marcell Nagy gives a stunning performance , a picture of a child / man who is forced to enter the world of adulthood via the horrors of Auschwitz . Nagy captures the essence of the character with minimal dialogue and maximum use of his body language and eyes . The supporting cast is superb , each creating vignettes in the few moments we see them that burn into our memory . The cinematography by Gyula Pados uses subdued color for the scenes outside the camps and a subtle sepia toned black and white or the scenes within the walls of the terrifyingly real buildings and yards of the camps . The musical score by Ennio Morricone sustains the mood throughout . But it is the director Lajos Koltai whose impeccable sensitivity to Kertesz ' writing and vision that makes this long ( 140 minutes ) film a seamless pondering of the passage of time - minute by minute , hour by hour , day by day , etc - that is the essence of Gyorgy's survival of a nightmare ' with little moments of happiness wherever they may happen ' . This is a magnificent film , by a gifted crew , and though it contains visuals that will crush your heart , it must be seen to be believed . In Hungarian and German and English with subtitles . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Triumphant Achievement ! This is a Brilliant Film !	IO NON HO PAURA ( I'M NOT SCARED ) is a radiant film by director Gabriele Salvatores based on the novel by Niccolò Ammaniti ( who also wrote the screenplay ) that quietly puts the premise ' greater love hath no man than he lay down etc ' into the desperately gentle innocence of children . The impact is overwhelmingly beautiful : this film is destined to become one of the most memorable greats in the catalogues of ardent film lovers . The setting is Southern Italy , 1978 , and with the sweeping cinematography of Italo Petriccione we are set in motion with the vista of golden wheat fields where a group of children are traveling toward a secret old house . Michele ( Giuseppe Cristiano ) is with his young sister Maria ( Giulia Matturo ) and in their speed to reach the destination her glasses are broken and Michele pockets them , promising to tape them to avoid their mother's wrath . Once the children reach the abandoned old ruin of a house , games ensue , one fat girl is informed that she has lost the game and must display herself to the boys as punishment . Michele prevents this from happening by taking responsibility and is made to climb into the scary old house and jump out . Michele succeeds and the children mount their bikes to return home to their tiny village . On the way home Michele discovers he has lost his sister's glasses so he returns by himself to the house , sees the glasses atop an odd tin piece hidden by straw . Michele lifts the tin and discovers a deep hole that contains a body covered with a filthy blanket with only a foot in view . Terrified , Michele flees and returns home with his sister . At night Michele's curiosity wins and he sneaks out of his house to return to the old house . There he slowly discovers that the roofed hole contains a living person who begs for water , then food . Over the next few days Michele finds that the hole person is a young boy his age , and though filthy and frightened the young lad Filippo ( Mattia Di Pierro ) grows to depend on Michele and reveals he is terrified , shackled and has been placed there to die . Meanwhile at Michele's odd little home there are strange conversations between his father Pino ( Dino Abbrescia ) and his mother ( Aitana Sánchez-Gijon ) , friends enter their home and the emphasis is always on the television news . A smarmy Milanese man comes to stay with them and Michele is forced to give up his bed and his privacy . Ever mistrustful of the adult darkness , he overhears that his father is involved with the others in a kidnapping of a wealthy family's son - Filippo ! The manner in which Michele tackles this ugly truth , laying down his own safety to prevent the adults from killing Filippo , is the way this movie winds to a superlative , uplifting end . So very much of this story is beyond words : the moments of silence , the looks in the eyes of the children , the power of the human spirit ensconced in the body of young lad named Michele , the manner in which the mind of Michele works through all of the adult reality and makes it credible in his fantasy world - all of these defy description . The work of the entire cast is outstanding and the production aspects of every detail of this film are of the highest order . This is a brilliant little film !
Twin Views of Altered Lives : A Triumphant Film	DE TWEELING ( TWIN SISTERS ) , based on the highly successful novel by Tessa de Loo and adapted brilliantly for the screen by Marieke van der Pol , is assuredly one of the most touching films to date about the strength of family bonds decimated by the horrors of WW II . Director Ben Sombogaart follows Dutch writer de Loo's lead in making this story about the differing fates of twin girls separated at the death of their parents more of a parallel tale than capitalizing on the grim reality of Hitler's influence . The result is a cinematically magnificent , gently hued verismo style of film that succeeds even more in its impact than if it were constantly doused in the dark side of its subject . Germany 1920 . Lotte Bamberg ( played by three actresses though a long life - child Julia Koopmans , young woman Thekla Reuten and aged woman Ellen Vogel ) and Anna Bamberg ( child Sina Richardt , young woman Nadja Uhl and aged woman Gudrun Okras ) are inseparable twins at age six , living life to its fullest until suddenly both parents are gone and they are split up : the consumptive Lotte goes to live with her upper class Dutch aunt in Holland and the healthy Anna remains in Germany with her poor uncle on a pig farm . Lotte lives a life of privilege , recovers form tuberculosis , studies German at University and sings Schumann ( ' Frauen Lieben und Leben ' appropriately ! ) accompanied by her soon to be husband David ( Jeroen Spitzenberger ) who happens to be Jewish . As the war threatens Hitler's invasion on Holland , David is sent to Auschwitz and brokenhearted Lotte marries David's kind brother and has a child . Meanwhile Anna leads an abused life on the poor and filthy farm , is beaten by her heinous uncle when she begins dating a young handsome Austrian Martin ( Roman Knizka ) and runs away to work as a maid . Martin believes in Socialism and joins Hitler's army , and is killed . Throughout the years of separation each twin writes to the other but their guardians for varying reasons never mail the letters . Anna finally finds Lotte and they have a brief time together in Lotte's elegant surroundings . But when Anna observes German dinner guests berating Jews she flees . The two sisters find it difficult to separate the losses of their husbands : Lotte blames Anna's siding with the Nazis as a cause of David's death . Anna defends Martin's role as one of idealism that had nothing to do with the genocide of the Jews . They part , seemingly to never meet again . But as old women bedraggled Anna seeks out the elegant Lotte and the two come to understand their opposite opinions of what the war did to destroy their happiness . The entire cast is so fine that it is difficult to single any one actor out for distinction : this is truly ensemble acting . Never pushing the story to the edge of saccharine or excess of war violence , director Sombogaart keeps his focus on the dialogue between the sisters central , embroidered with the opposing dichotomies of class and political commitment visceral but understated . The cinematography of Piotr Kukla and the radiant musical score by Fons Merkies are astonishingly effective . This is one of the powerful movies about the Holocaust from an entirely different stance - one that grabs you by the heart and holds on for the 135 minutes of the film . . . and beyond . In Dutch , German and English with subtitles . Very Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
One of the Most Important Films in Recent Years	CHILDREN OF MEN is a masterpiece of cinematic artistry . Director Alfonso Cuarón , using a screenplay he co-wrote with Timothy J . Sexton , has done what few artists have been able to achieve before - create an apocalyptic experience that is almost devoid of extraneous material meant to terrify the audience and focused the worst of unthinkable events into a personal story about a few people . Oh , the global destruction and masses of dead humanity are not kept from our eyes , but instead Cuarón uses these horrid images as a background for a story about the changes than can occur in each of us when our souls and lives are challenged by extinction . The story is set in 2027 and the only country that has survived some unnamed disaster is England ( importantly , the only country without a constitution , maintaining its governance on history ) . The landscape is bleak , twisted , filthy and holds scattered cages of fugitives ( immigrants from the countries no longer in existence ) : it is difficult to decide which is better , being dead or living in this heinous mess of a wasted world . Society is on the brink of extinction as the people are infertile and the youngest living person has just died . We meet Theo Faron ( Clive Owen ) , a drunken bored disillusioned detritus of a man whose early years were alive with political activism . He loathes his meaningless job and he is bitter and utterly disillusioned and emotionally numb . A group called ' Angels ' is lead by Julian Taylor ( Julianne Moore ) , Theo's former significant other with whom he had a child that died of influenza , and Luke ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ) and their work is the protection of immigrants as well as transporting a young black girl Kee ( Claire-Hope Ashitey ) who happens to be pregnant ( ! ) to a sea spot where Human Project will aid her in propagating a new society . Julian has Theo captured ( he is the only man she can truly trust ) to handle the safe transportation of Kee to the Human Project . Theo at first refuses to absorb this new direction but incidents occur which change his mind : he receives sound advice and encouragement from an old hippie friend Jasper ( Michael Caine ) and the trek begins . The bond between Kee and Theo is an increasingly strong one and as they follow directions that are in code they gradually discover the incentives of various people to follow the eventual birth of the first child to be born in eighteen years . The trip is harrowing , suspenseful , filled with psychological and philosophical implications , and the ending of this tale occurs in the foggy mists of the sea aboard a tiny boat - a place that has no roots . Clive Owen is mesmerizing in this tough role and his support from Moore , Caine , Ejiofor , Ashitey , as well as smaller roles played by such fine actors as Charlie Hunnam , Pam Ferris , Danny Huston , Peter Mullan , Oana Pellea and Jacek Koman to mention only a few is on the highest level . The cinematography by Emmanuel Lubezki is miraculous , capturing a strange world that seems very real yet not absurdly over the edge . Classical composer John Tavener ( with help from Mahler , Penderecki , and others ) finds just the right balance between old folk songs , contemporary requiem moments and excerpts from popular music of the past to mold a fascinating musical score : it works ! Some may avoid this film because of the apparent disturbing content , but for this viewer this film speaks so cogently to the matters we should all heed to help reverse some of the destruction we have done to our world that it would be hard to imagine this film not changing people's views on immigration as an example of how confused is our sense of humanity , and that is only one issue before us . CHILDREN OF MEN is an instant classic , whether we like it or not . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
One of the Year's Best Fims : Oscar Ignored !	Ben Affleck has written ( with Aaron Stockard ) a superb screenplay adaptation of Dennis Lahane's novel GONE BABY GONE and has proceeded to direct this tough tale with an ensemble cast of both well-known actors and unknown actors and walk-ons from the streets of the Boston area where they grisly story takes place . The result is a film so well tuned and realistic with a perfect sense of pacing and character development that it becomes a remarkable calling card for Ben Affleck's career as a director . That it is going unnoticed ( with the exception of Amy Ryan's nomination for Best Supporting Actress ) by the Oscars is a grave oversight ! The time is contemporary Dorchester , Massachusetts and Patrick Kenzie ( Casey Affleck ) and his girlfriend / partner Angie Gennaro ( Michelle Monaghan ) , become aware of a missing child Amanda ( Madeline O'Brien ) in their own neighborhood . The child's aunt Bea ( Amy Madigan ) and uncle Lionel ( Titus Welliver ) , unable to cope with Amanda's drugged out mother Helene ( Amy Ryan ) , knock on Patrick and Angie's door , pleading with them to help find Amanda : Patrick and Angie are private detectives who just happen to be an integral part of the neighborhood . Reluctant at first to become involved in the now 3-day police hunt for the child , a hunt headed by the respected Captain Jack Doyle ( Morgan Freeman ) who his lost his own daughter in similar circumstances and detectives Remy Bressant ( Ed Harris ) and Nick Poole ( John Ashton ) and who as a triad feel they are competent to handle the case without the ' immature experience ' of the young couple . But Patrick and Angie do become involved , uncover leads within the neighborhood that lead to the clues behind the missing child incident and in doing so , unravel a lot of corruption within the police force , and also discover differences between themselves that threaten their otherwise close relationship . To say more would remove the incredible tension this story maintains all the way to the fadeout credits . The cast is uniformly excellent , from the smallest roles to the most major ones . It is difficult to single out any performer for praise as this is truly an ensemble piece . The flavor of the film is honest , unflinching , and refuses to ignore the grotesque incidents that must be shown for the movie to maintain its impact . Writer Dennis Lahane ( ' Mystic River ' , ' Shutter Island ' ) is a master of detailing the spectrum of responses that ugly matters induce : even the most noble of intentions have their shadowy side . Affleck finds all of this in this excellent film , a film so strong that it easily bears repeated viewings . Highly recommended . . . but not for the squeamish . Grady Harp
A Journey of the Heart : Reconciling Distances	' Qian li zou dan qi ' ( ' Riding Alone for Thousands of Miles ' ) is a little miracle of a film by the gifted Chinese director Yimou Zhang , an artist highly respected for his films of passion and martial arts captured in richly symbolic fashion and spectacular color . But in this film the director joins in writing a story with Jingzhi Zou that is as intimate as his other films are operatic . It is a simple , touching story told in manner that maintains Zhang's visual artistry yet goes so far beyond the glorious color to probe universal questions . Gou-ichi Takata ( Ken Takakura ) lives by himself in a fishing village since the death of his wife . Apparently he was so devastated by her passing that he left his son Ken-ichi to grow up by himself , an act that Ken-ichi has never forgiven : the two men have had no contact in many years . Takata receives a telephone call from his daughter-in-law Rie ( Shinobu Terajima ) informing him that Ken-ichi is hospitalized with a grave illness and pleads with Takata to come visit his estranged son . Takata complies , but on arrival at the hospital his son refuses to see him . Rie shares a videotape Ken-ichi made about his obsession with Chinese folk opera , and when Takata plays the tape he sees that his son's burning desire to tape a performance by Chinese singer Li Jiamin ( who plays himself ) singing the greatest of his roles - an opera names ' Riding Alone for a Thousand Miles ' - was thwarted by the singer's illness at the time , Takata decides to reconcile his paternal distance and travel to Yunnan Province of China to complete his son's tape and vision . Upon arrival in China Takata discovers that the singer is in jail and he obtains the translator services of Lingo ( Lin Qiu ) and Jasmine ( Jiang Wen ) who ultimately help him to overcome the endless red tape to gain an audience with the singer in his jail . Though Li wants to sing his famous role of Takata to film for his son , Li requests that first he be able to see his illegitimate son Yang Yang ( Zhenbo Yang ) who has been adopted by a little village called Stone Flower . Takata , with the aid of his translators , visits Stone Flower and the people there greet Takata with warmth and give their consent to allow Yang Yang to accompany Takata to see the father he has never met . But on the road out of China Yang Yang strays and Takata and Yang Yang spend a night in the frightening depths of a canyon : they bond with complex shared needs until they are rescued the next morning . Though Yang Yang has developed a love for Takata he doesn't want to leave his village and Takata departs back to the prison alone to tell Li . At the prison Takata shares with Li and his fellow inmates photographs of Yang Yang : everyone is so moved that Li performs the opera for Takata's son on videotape as a gesture of love . Takata has accomplished his mission of reconciliation with his own son , but Rie calls him to inform him that Ken-ichi has died but left a letter addressed to Takata that explains how deeply moved the son is that his father would make the journey to China , riding alone for thousands of miles out of love . The gesture is enough for Ken-ichi . Zhang tells his story in both Mandarin and Japanese and the translations reflect the differences on the two countries but also represent bridges between the ancient and the modern , between cold interior calloused heart and the warmth of love . The filming and accompanying musical score are as always in Zhang's films beautiful beyond description . This is a film to cherish , one that is so understated in its approach to father-son relationships that it will touch chords of recognition in every viewer . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Bits and Pieces of Love Stories from a Writer's Mind : A Wondrous Journey	Kar Wai Wong is more than a film director ( though he is one of the finest directors working today ! ) : he is a visual , poetic , creative and daring artist capable of more cinematic miracles in one isolated film than most directors achieve in a lifetime . ' 2046 ' is a visually stunning , intellectually challenging , emotionally charged view of love and lust in today's kinetically dysfunctional society . There is no one way to interpret this non-linear film and therein lies much of its rewards . The main character Chow ( Tony Leung ) is a writer and a libertine who has pushed his vacuous life around with his hormones and though he has had many affairs he has failed to find the illusory ' love ' . He has lived in Singapore and Hong Kong , makes his living writing columns of newspapers while his novels formulate in his mind . One of his novels is called ' 2046 ' , the title based on the room number in a hotel where he witnessed a bizarre incident involving a gorgeous woman , and resulted in his moving into the adjoining room 2047 where is meets the hotel manager's daughter in love with a Filipino Japanese man her father loathes . He desires this unattainable woman and fuses her with a fictional ' android ' in his novel which now uses ' 2046 ' as a year or time or place where people go to find memories . He continues to encounter women for whom he desires more than surface relationships ( there is a stunning lady gambler cameo who represents everything he lusts and longs for , etc ) but he is never able to find his tenuous ideal : his memory is his only source of consolation . The actors in every role include many of the finest actors available : Li Gong , Ziyi Zhang , Carina Lau , Maggie Cheung , Takuya Kimura , Chen Chang , and of course Tony Leung . But it is Kar Wai Wong , the writer , director , choreographer , colorist , visionary that makes this excursion into the interstices of the mind / imagination so overwhelmingly satisfying . Whether the viewer elects to view the story as a continuation of the director's previous films , or as reality vs memory , fiction vs imagination , sci-fi excursion , or simply a plethora of vignettes about the challenges of finding love in a world geared toward instant gratification , this is a magnificent achievement . In many ways the sound track could be turned off ( though the beautiful musical score by Peer Raben and Shigeru Umebayashi with a lot of help from Maria Callas ! would be missed ) , and the inventive cinematography and visual image manipulations by Christopher Doyle , Pung-Leung Kwan and Yiu-Fai Lai such as the constant dividing of the screen into triptychs and diptychs would remain some of the most beautiful photographic images on film . This is not an easy film to follow and it is most assuredly one that will grow in importance with repeated viewings . The comparison with Alain Resnais ' ' Last Year at Marienbad ' suggests its potency . But free the mind and enter into the world of ' 2046 ' for one of the most satisfying cinematic achievements of the recent past . Very highly recommended . Grady Harp
An Absolutely Fascinating Little Film	Greg Marcks offers us in ' 11 : 14 ' that rare breed of film that keeps us on the edge of our seats for the entire 95 minutes running time . This strangely wonderful tale embraces the ideas of consequences and serendipity by unraveling a story of two deaths that affect the lives of eight kids and two parents , each with separate perceptions of shared incidents , and all of those perceptions intertwine in the most unique way imaginable . This is not a teen horror flick , not an attempt to do an imitation cheap movie life ' Blair Witch Project ' look-alikes . ' 11 : 14 ' is simply a fine script played with comedy and tragedy and wide-eyed wonderment by a top notch cast of actors . To relate the tale would to defray the anxiety Marcks creates in his writing . It is sufficient to say that little nerdy people in a small town somewhere are all caught up in two deaths , a thwarted robbery , a case of missing bodies , and a final core explanation of how the whole foolish mess got started . Along the way there are hilarious moments of accidental death during intercourse in a grave yard , a severed penis and its impact on hit and run kids , a rather randy and hormone driven trashy girl whose parents get caught up in the scheme of things . . . and that is only starters . The exceptional cast includes Hilary Swank ( with braces ) , Patrick Swayze ( with body padding ) , Barbara Hershey obsessed with opera , Rachel Leigh Cook as the promiscuous round robin girl , Henry Thomas as a drunk driver , Ben Foster as the genital loser , Blake Heron , Shawn Hatosy , Blake Heron , Stark Sands , Colin Hanks , and Gregg Clark as the revolving police officer who tries to keep up and make sense of the mess . The cinematography is beautifully handled by Shane Hurlbut who manages to keep the nighttime ambiance all centered on the 11 : 14 PM restrictions of the action . But above all it is the brilliant script and tight direction by Marcks that makes this the strong , grossly overlooked sleeper of a movie that it is . It just has everything ! Grady Harp , October 05
Brilliant Script , Superb Direction , Best Ensemble Cast Performance : Why no Oscars ?	STRANGER THAN FICTION is one of the more wise , conceptually stunning , finely executed original films to come to the screen in a long time . How this little gem of a film went unnoticed by the Academy is anyone's guess , but viewers ' alert : spend an evening viewing this film and new standards for excellence will be set for you . Director Marc Forster ( ' Finding Neverland ' , ' Monster's Ball ' , ' Stay ' , ' Everything Put Together ' ) is a director of vision , a man unafraid to tackle testy topics , and a genius at pacing a film with a keen collaborative eye with his cinematographer , his editor , his set designer , his casting director , and his actors . Taking the chance of working with first time writer Zach Helm ( a gifted artist whose niche in the business is already secure with this first venture ) and assembling a cast of some of our finest actors proves successful in every graphically odd twist and turn of this unusual , compelling and unclassifiable story . Harold Crick ( Will Ferrell - finally given a role in which he can prove that he is an actor and not just a foolish pratfall comedian ) is a boring , number obsessed IRS agent whose every moment of every day is timed to be exactly the same ( with the important co-existence with his wrist watch ! ) . . . until one day he hears a voice narrating his life , the female voice of loopy and blocked writer Kay Eiffel ( Emma Thompson ) who is writing a story that has a ' Harold Crick ' as her main character . Only our boring IRS agent can hear her voice : his loony office friend Dave ( Tony Hale ) empathizes but can do little else to help him . When the narrator begins to talk about ending ' Harold's ' life , Harold freaks and seeks guidance from a literature professor Jules Hilbert ( Dustin Hoffman , in one of his most subtle and refined roles of his career ) who knows Eiffel's work and aids Harold in understanding novels , be they comedy or tragedy . Harold also seeks the advice of psychiatrist Dr . Mittag-Leffler ( the always superb Linda Hunt ) who is of little help , and Dr . Cayly ( Tom Hulce ) who repairs all upsets with hugs . Meanwhile in his work of auditing citizens he encounters anti-government baker Ana Pascal ( Maggie Gyllenhaal , once again proving that she is one of the most formidable talents in film today ) , and a bizarre but tender attraction slowly ensues . And all this time novelist Kay Eiffel is struggling with how to ' kill Harold ' so that she can complete her novel . Her publisher sends in ' assistant ' Penny Escher ( Queen Latifah ) to ground her and guide her to her novel's completion by helping her observe hospital disasters , vantages , and steadying her grip on life . The manner in which the novel is finished which involves the ultimate fate of Harold and the changes the narration of the novel have had on his life makes up the resolution of the story . And a cleverly written conclusion it is . Zach Helm is obviously a brilliant , well-informed writer who knows how to balance comedy and tragedy , crises of life with the little things that count , and can mold conversations so subtle that they beg to be rewound to enjoy the words repeatedly . Forster wisely uses graphic superimpositions of numbers and graphs and lines to show us the inside of Harold's intriguing mind , all the while allowing us to draw close to the needy and tender aspect of this nerd of nerds , thus making the involvement with his narrator , his girlfriend Ana , and his doctors and professor wholly credible . Some people ( this viewer being one ) avoided this film in the theaters because of the fear that it may be just another Will Ferrell bit of foolishness : over the top slapstick physical comedy that grows stale after about five minutes . But Will Ferrell here opens an important new door for his career : he can act ! The ensemble cast could not be improved upon and it is refreshing to see the widely disparate types of actors gathered here work as a cohesive and impeccable unit . Added to the DVD is about an hour's worth of featurettes that are , for once , brilliantly informative and well worth viewing to enhance the film just experienced . Bravo to the entire cast and crew of this little masterwork ! Grady Harp
' Come back or I shall die '	For those who fell under the spell of Alessandro Baricco's novel SILK , a meditation about love , desire , and conflict , this cinematic transformation adapted as a screenplay and directed by François Girard will not disappoint : reservations about making Baricco's poetry visual are for the most part put to rest . The resulting film , SILK , is supported by a sensitive cast , wondrous cinematography by Alain Dostie , a haunting musical score by Ryuichi Sakamoto , and is an appropriate extension of the beauty of Baricco's short novel . Set in France in 1862 , Hervé Joncour ( Michael Pitt ) is following his family tradition of military duty until a somewhat mysterious man named Baldabiou ( Alfred Molina ) approaches Hervé's father Mayor Joncour ( Kenneth Welsh ) with an idea to increase the tiny French town's revenues by capitalizing on the manufacture of silk . He talks the town council into fortifying his project and in a short time Baldabiou has several silk mills running . A problem arises when an infection attacks the silkworm eggs and threatens to destroy the business . Baldabiou convinces Hervé to travel to Africa to buy silkworm eggs to solve the dwindling supply . Hervé , meanwhile , has met and fallen in love with the beautiful Hélène ( Keira Knightley ) who is loving enough to encourage Hervé's travel to Africa for the eggs , a trip Hervé makes and returns with eggs that make the town's mills thrive , allowing the prospering relationship between Hervé and Hélène to result in marriage and hopes for a happy future . The eggs are again attacked by disease and this time Baldabiou sends Hervé to Japan where the perfect eggs can be smuggled out of the country : the trip is arduous , long ( through Europe , Russia , China to Japan ) , and while Hervé succeeds in securing the precious eggs , he also loses his heart to the seductive eyes of the baron's concubine ( Sei Ashina ) . Upon returning home the town prospers , Hervé and Hélène try to have children , but Hervé is again forced to travel to Japan for more eggs - and to fulfill the longing to see the concubine again . Japan is now at war and the trip is far more harrowing than before and while Hervé doesn't satisfy his desire for the concubine , she gives him a note in Japanese as he departs for France . Upon returning to France , Hervé has the note translated : ' Come back or I shall die ' . His love for Hélène remains strong and he shares the experience he had in Japan . A letter is delivered to Hervé , a beautiful love letter , and it is at this point that Hélène becomes ill and the events that transpire bring life to the real meaning of love in an unexpected way . There are problems with the film : the Japanese conversations are not translated by subtitles ( perhaps the director wants us to feel the alienation of a Frenchman in a strange land ) making the viewer feel that chunks of the story are missing ; the emphasis of the film is more concentrated on the beauty of the various locales than on the character development ; Michael Pitt is a fine actor but the inner conflicts of his character are not explored well . But these flaws are minor when the scope of the film is viewed in full . It is a beautiful work and one that will satisfy the readers of the novel from which it was adapted . Grady Harp
A Deeply Touching View of Policemen	Director Xavier Beauvois , with the intelligent and sensitive script he co-wrote with Cédric Anger , Guillaume Bréaud and Jean-Eric Troubat , allows us , the viewers , to look inside the minds and lives of those people who commit to police work in a manner that pays homage to a maligned group and reinstates our visceral support to the spectrum of on the edge terror mixed with spaces of ennui that these people endure . LA PETIT LIEUTENANT is not a crime film : it is a deeply touching inside view of the men and women who protect us . Opening with well-staged Le Havre Police Academy graduation images Beauvois focuses on newly graduated Antoine Derouère ( Jalil Lespert ) as he says goodbye to his family and his wife Julie ( Bérangère Allaux ) , a school teacher who pleads with Antoine not to leave Le Havre for Paris , the destination Antoine seeks to prove his desire for an active detective career . The kind but inexperienced Antoine takes up residence in Paris and is assigned to a homicide unit with equally inexperienced young men who learn the ropes of owning a gun , the embarrassment of performance problems at the shooting range , the awkward first ' arrests ' and interrogations , and the endless hours of sitting at a desk waiting for activity . Newly assigned as the head of Antoine's unit is Commandant Caroline Vaudieu ( the extraordinary actress Nathalie Baye ) who has just come off a two year sabbatical to recover from alcoholism and the associated death of her son from meningitis . The manner in which these people bond is quiet and sensitive and when finally a case comes to their attention - a man found dead in the canal - the force joins begins what they all need to do : the killer must be found . Clues are explored , people are traced , and Antoine and Vandieu form a particularly close bond , Antoine reminding Vandieu of the son she has lost and Vandieu providing the model for his career . Tension mounts as the criminals are pursued , coincidences occur and a tragedy cracks the bond of the group , affecting each member of the small force immeasurably . It is this very human happening and its effects that wind the movie down to moments of painful acceptance of the life of police people . The entire cast is first rate and provides ensemble acting that is among the finest on screen . But the portrayal by Nathalie Baye is so multifaceted , embracing the inner trauma of personal losses not only of those she loves but also of her own sense of dignity as she faithfully attends AA meetings , that her performance is triumphant . Jalil Lespert also captures the fine line between innocence and experience that makes his portrait of a new detective not only completely credible but also one that leaves a mark on the heart . The direction and the cinematography by Caroline Champetier keep the film nearly monochromatic , the only color that is left to shock us for a brief moment is the red blood at moments of tension . And the lack of a musical score keeps the tone of the humanity of the film intact , never reducing it to a bombastic Hollywood chase and kill film . This is a little jewel of a film that deserves a very wide audience . Highly Recommended . In French , Polish , and Russian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
An Important Film from a Committed Company	FREEDOM WRITERS produces more catches in the throat than many a film in years . This viewer avoided the film , thinking it was yet another in a long line of ' bad school kids with criminal instincts ' brought around by a champion teacher ( starting with ' Blackboard Jungle ' the same story has been told almost yearly ! ) : it is a distinct pleasure to share that this film is so very different on many levels that it makes all the other school problem / redemption movies pale in comparison . Based on a true story about a Long Beach California High School just after integration and busing altered the state's educational system , the book " The Freedom Writers Diary : How a Teacher and 150 Teens Used Writing to Change Themselves and the World Around Them " by Erin Gruwell is a compilation of the journals of the student of a newly mixed racial classroom ( African American , Latino , Cambodian , Chinese , White ) voicing their experiences about coming together as a family due to the influence of a novice , naive , but highly motivated and insightful teacher - Erin Gruwell . The book was adapted for the screen by director Richard LaGravenese and carefully cast with young actors who represented the very groups about whom the story is written . Erin Gruwell ( Hilary Swank , in her very finest role to date ! ) is married to a frustrated architect student Scott ( Patrick Dempsey ) who has ' settled ' for a life as a computer programmer . Erin , the daughter of a Civil Rights activist ( Scott Glenn ) , is idealistic and wants to teach in a place where she is challenged , a chance to make her life meaningful . She graciously and naively steps into a classroom of high school freshmen , all form different gangs and scarred by racial violence , frustrated to be trapped in a classroom with a white woman who seems clueless to their real life problems , wanting to teach them literature ! The story unveils the technique Erin develops to erase border lines and bond the students by visits to the Holocaust Museum , taking them to nice restaurants in Newport Beach , treating them with respect and asking them to see the similarities in each other . The students respond , despite the harsh warnings of Erin's fellow teachers Margaret ( Imelda Staunton , in another exceptional role ) who insists everything is by the old rules , and Brian ( John Benjamin Hickey ) who has little use for the new system and group of students . As an example of how the students transform their characters is the funding of a visit to Long Beach by the woman who hid Anne Frank ( the students have read her diary as a vulnerable Jewish child ) and Pat Carroll plays that woman Miep Gies in yet another outstanding performance . Though the film is strong in every moment and every member of the cast ( though the brilliance of Hilary Swank's portrayal is one of incredible realism and subtlety ) and the various actors who comprise the Freedom Writers are superb : April Lee Hernandez , Mario , Jason Finn , Deance Wyatt , Kristin Herrera , Jacklyn Ngan , Sergio Montalvo , Vanetta Smith , Gabriel Chavarria , Hunter Parrish , Antonio García , Giovonnie Samuels , and Jacklyn Ngan and yes , they all deserve mentioning in a review . This is a full company effort and the result is a deeply moving film that celebrates the individual and the right to hope and to achieve . A Must See Experience . Grady Harp
A Winning Combination of Talent and Tenderness	MON MEILLEUR AMI ( MY BEST FRIEND ) is a gift from France to movie lovers . Though it can be considered a ' comedy ' in the French tradition , it is also a fine examination of the importance of friendship in a world too cluttered with ' acquaintances ' passing as friends . Just what a ' friend ' means is only one important message of this lovely film : the manner through which we identify meaningful relationships is the other . Writer / Director Patrice Laconte ( Intimate Strangers , The Man on the Train , The Widow of Saint-Pierre , The Girl on the Bridge , Tango , The Hairdresser's Husband , Monsieur Hire , etc ) knows how to take an idea and allow it to blossom without distortion or preaching . He understands the intimacy of friendships and knows how to draw superlative performances from his actors - an obvious extension of the concept of friendship ! François Coste ( Daniel Auteuil ) is an antiquities dealer with his lesbian partner Catherine ( Julie Gayet ) , and while François is a successful businessman , he is a self-centered isolationist who has never been able to make or retain friends , a fact that is put before him at the scantily attended funeral of an associate . François and Catherine attend an auction where François pays a high price for an antique Greek vase , a receptacle for the tears of an ancient man's friend . This purchases encourages Catherine to challenge François to a bet : François must introduce to Catherine a ' best friend ' within ten days or the vase belongs to her . François , oblivious to the fact that he is completely without friends ( including his own daughter Louise - Julie Durand ) , accepts the challenge and so the search for friends begins . François exhausts his possibilities , all the while being driven about Paris by a loquacious taxi driver ' Balanchine ' / Bruno Bouley ( Dany Boon ) who has his own problems : he has worked all his life to prepare for a fact-answering position on a television game show , but suffers from a severe case of nerves when before a crowd . Very gradually the two men bond and François realizes Bruno is the closest thing he has to a friend . A plan is hatched which will apparently benefit both men's weaknesses , but as life often does , surprises alter the plans . How the film ends is so tender that sharing it would destroy the fluid progression of Leconte's storytelling . Both Auteuil and Boon are superb in the leading roles and yet every minor role is in the hands of the cream of France's crop of supporting actors . The pacing of the film , the cinematography , the musical score , and the script are perfectly melded . Yet it is the magic hand of Patrice Laconte that makes this movie understated and wholly credible , allowing the audience to relate to the sensitive weaknesses of the two men and grow into their tenuous relationship . It is a joy to watch and remember . Grady Harp
Trajectory : The Pulsing Global Balls of Coincidences	CARNAGE is a stunning film - though from the outset it should be made clear that it is not a film for all audiences . For those who cringe at gore , those who are frustrated by nonlinear storyline , and those who feel uncomfortable with magical realism - beware . This is a two-hour plus journey that demands concentration and suspension of belief to glean all of the multi-layered meanings it holds . Stylishly opening with the elegant dressing and preparation of a handsome young bullfighter discussing his incipient time in the ring with his father , the film moves into a the bull ring in Spain and while the young bullfighter is gored , a young girl watches in horror on a television in France . Thus the sequence of coincidences begins . The dead bull is dragged from the ring , butchered , and his various parts ( meat to restaurants , horns to a taxidermist , testicles , eyes , etc ) are sent to unrelated places in Spain , Belgium and France . Along the way we meet the child who observed the goring on television and discover she is epileptic and draws pictures where dogs are larger than humans ( because her's is ! ) , an actress searching for her center , a therapy group bonding and yielding primal screams while nude in a pool , a taxidermist who lives with his mother ( the wondrous Esther Gorintin of ' Since Otar Left ' ) and his estranged anatomist brother married to a woman pregnant with quintuplets ( neither brother speaks to their damaged father ) , and so many more . Each of these characters encounters one form or other of the dead bull as food , souvenirs , gifts , etc : each time the consequences of these coincidences add greatly to the story . Meanwhile our gored bullfighter lies in coma in need of a liver transplant and it is one of the various women touched by the bull's demise in some way that dies in an accident and becomes the saving liver donor to the young bullfighter . The manner in which all of these myriad coincidental effects of the original bullfight mesh ( altered relationships , rejoined parent / child schisms , deaths , altered lives ) are sewn tightly together by the end of this apparent conundrum of a story . The cast is uniformly exceptional . The camera work and pacing are mesmerizing , making the willing eye of the viewer see far more than previously thought possible . Writer / Director Delphine Gleize is truly a talent to closely observe . The audience for this artwork may not be large , but for those souls seeking unique films this one is Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Five Hour Epic Graced with Superb Acting and Historical Recreation	In 1993 Gianluigi Calderone directed this biography of Benito Mussolini ( script by Vincenzo Cerami and Mimmo Rafele ) as a three-part television series , wisely electing to engage one Antonio Banderas , fresh from his triumph in the film ' Philadelphia ' in the States , to tackle the legend of one of the treacherous leaders of Italy in the first half of the 20th century . The DVD is now available in a 2-disc format , which allows the viewer to watch Parts I , II , and III on separate evenings . It is a beautifully captured bit of history and Banderas proves his considerable acting chops in a role that spans the entire spectrum of emotional response . The film opens when Mussolini , at age 19 , was disenchanted with being a schoolteacher and instead focused on womanizing and the plight of the workers in Italy . A man of astounding power of verbal presentation and conviction , he managed to seduce not only nearly every woman who crossed his path but also the multifactioned working class , a mass of frustrated and abused workers who jumped from promise to cause to new hero with regularity in an attempt to change the sad situation of class struggle in Italy . Mussolini ( Banderas ) manages to court the interest of Angelika Balabanoff ( Susanne Lothar ) , a Russian Socialist with hard rules and concepts of her own but also a woman who could foresee Mussolini's growing importance as a leader of social reform . The story unwinds at a fine pace , pausing to reveal the tender side of the man with his marriage to his childhood sweetheart Rachele ( Claudia Koll ) , his challenges to attack his education further through the influence of another lover , med student Eleanora ( Anna Geislerová ) , as well as through his ruthless manner through his confrontations with Manzoni ( Jan Novotny ) , Bissolati ( Eduard Kolar ) , his rise to power by becoming the editor of Milan's influential Avanti ! newspaper , and his leadership of the Italian Socialist Party . But power gets a strangle hold on him and he develops the cruel Fascismo Party , and with that turns all of his supporters against him in his revolution that started for the working class into a sellout to the landowners , from his initial stance of pacifism of revolution to his active engagement in the World Wars . Banderas does a fine job of allowing us to see all sides of Mussolini : this is not a cardboard cutout but a man with multi-dimensional characteristics . The superb cast includes German , Spanish , Italian , and Czech Republic actors and therein lies a bit of a problem . While the acting is excellent , it appears that each of the actors is peaking in his own tongue , that the final version released on DVD is dubbed in Italian and / or English with English subtitles . But the dialogue is so fast-paced , filled with vibrantly important information that the viewer rarely gets to look at the mouths of the actors to see who is speaking what - so it doesn't distract from the brilliance of the film . The cinematography and set design and costuming are all excellent as is the wondrous musical score by Nicola Piovani . It would help to be more informed about Italian political history to fully enjoy this spectacle , but the epic does provide a fine condensation of years of world politics and the rise of Socialism that allows us to understand that strange era far better . Watching BENITO requires an investment of time , but for this viewer the investment is well worth the effort and the subsequent pleasure . Highly Recommended .
Survival : Abandoned Children Bonding in the Streets of Tokyo	' Dare mo shiranai ' ( NOBODY KNOWS ) is a gleaming little film by writer / director Hirokazu Koreeda that offers a version of a true story so simply and eloquently that by the end of the film the audience is powerfully moved - without gimmicks , without imitation emotional devices , without major stars . It just simply works . Though the film is long at 2 hours the journey is well worth it and indeed the prolonged length seems necessary to convey the plight of these touching children's plight . The film opens ( during the titles ) on public transportation where a youthful mother Keiko ( the pop star You ) and her young son Akira ( Yûya Yagira ) sit guarding an ugly pink suitcase and other bags . Keira and Keiko have rented a poor little apartment promising the landlord that Keiko will make no noise . Once inside their new home the ugly bags are open and two additional children emerge and a trip to the bus station adds yet a third child ! Thus , ' unknown ' to the landlord , the apartment contains a family of five ! Soon Keiko leaves on a trip to ' make money ' , leaving some cash with Akira who is placed in charge of his brother and sisters . Of course , Keiko doesn't return except for one brief visit months later , and leaving the children to fend for themselves . Akira manages to make friends outside , gaining food and money for good deeds and good will , keeping his little ' family ' afloat . Gradually Akira realizes that Keiko will never return and through his friendship with a young girl still manages to eek out an existence : the manner in which he keeps his family happy is food for the soul ! But despite his constant good intentions to maintain a life for his family , one of his sisters dies and he and his girl friend bury her where she can ' watch the airplanes ' . And life goes on . There is no ending depicted , just continuum . With the subtlest technique Koreeda creates a story so real that it pulsates . The child actors ( especially Yûya Yagira ) are so natural and fine that they grab our hearts tenaciously . The only music in this film is a few notes form a toy piano and quiet harp music that enhances the feeling of isolation of the children . This is a film of rare beauty , one that could have been edited a bit , but even that criticism is overshadowed by the impact of Hirokazu Koreeda's overall achievement . Very Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Alimentation Generale : Epicier Volante	Le Fils de l'épicier ( The Grocer's Son ) is one of the loveliest films of the year . Written ( with Florence Vignon ) and directed by Eric Guirado , this little taste of French life is as refreshing as the fruits and vegetables on the traveling grocery van that is a focal point of the story . Though at first glance it appears to be a simple tale of a son begrudgingly taking over his invalid father's business , Guirado has embroidered this story with so many warm details that the film begs to be seen again and again to make sure nothing has been missed . Antoine Sforza ( the gifted and handsome young actor Nicolas Cazalé ) is a thirty something young waiter , unable to find satisfaction in his various jobs he opted for when he left his home ten years ago : his relationship with his father was strained and Antoine did not care to ' waste ' his life in a village as an grocer ( epicier ) . He has a ' girlfriend ' Claire ( Clotilde Hesme ) who is trying to save money to go to Spain to study , and when his father ( Daniel Duval ) is hospitalized with a heart attack , he begrudgingly agrees to return home - with the proviso that his mother lend him money that he in turn gives to Claire so that she can complete her dream of studying in Spain . Antoine's brother François ( Stéphan Guérin-Tillié ) owns a beauty salon and , despite the family's concept that he is the stable one , has troubles of his own . Antoine's mother ( Jeanne Goupil ) is desperate for help : she has managed to run the little store in the village , but a major source of income has come from the van the father drives through the countryside , selling groceries to the old folks . Antoine is encouraged by Claire to take over the van and even helps Antoine paint the van with rainbow colors to become the ' Epicier Volante ' . In time Antoine's brusque and distant personality is affected by the warmly humorous and significantly needy yet friendly old folks . He makes friends and extends himself as never before . Claire wins her audition for Spain , the father is released form the hospital , François ' life falls apart , and Antoine feels he must pay back his mother and move on . But the bonds between the changed Antoine and his family as well as his deep attachments to the old folks convince him to alter his plan for his life . Many of the ' old folks ' are cast from villagers who Guirado met while scouting for his film and these ' actors ' , together with some very fine character actors such as Liliane Rovère , give the film a feeling of authenticity . The scenery is gorgeous , the music is apropos , and the performances by the lead members of the cast are superb . This is a film to treasure - repeatedly . Highest Recommendation . Grady Harp
A Fine Study of the Wounds of Abandonment	El Día que me amen ( WHEN SOMEBODY LOVES ME ) is an important film from Argentina that bravely examines the spectrum of the effects of ' abandonment ' in childhood and how that seemingly minor act can transform lives . Based on a story idea by lead actor Adrián Suar and written for the screen by Marcos Carnevale and Marcela Guerty , this powerful movie steps beyond conventional tales of the distancing of childhood friends and moves into the arena of mental dysfunction and the long road to healing . Joaquín ( Adrián Suar ) and Mara ( Leticia Brédice ) are first seen as early 30s young adults , though their intimate childhood companionship is sensitively shown in flashbacks that appear like old home movies . Mara is an actress who has been traveling the world searching for a career and finally returns to Argentina for a chance to appear in a musical production of ' The Hunchback of Notre Dame ' . Mara is beautiful , talented , but a bit emotionally blurred , having left her fiancé in Spain just before their wedding . While her return is strained at first ( she is forced to break in to her own home because her mother forgot she was arriving ! ) , her mother Elvira ( María Rosa Fugazot ) and friends are happy she has returned after an 8-year absence . Mara is eager to see her childhood friend Joaquín who lives nearby , but there is a strange ambiance about his household : Joaquín has not left his room for two years , living in near silence in the dark , an obviously damaged young man . His father Ignacio ( Juan Leyrado ) is compassionate but feels Joaquín should be admitted to a psychiatric clinic . Joaquín pleads to stay at home and Ignacio agrees as long as his therapist doctor Balbis ( Jorge Marrale ) visits him daily . When Mara first sees Joaquín she is visibly disturbed , senses his problems , and begins to urge him out of his self-confinement . Slowly the two friends reveal each other's etiologies for maladjustment to life : Joaquín never recovered being abandoned first by his ill mother and second by Mara's abrupt leaving Argentina for her career , and Mara still is wounded by being abandoned by her father as a child and her failure to form lasting bonds with men . By opening memories and ultimately places outside Joaquín's house where they shared the intense bonding of their childhood each begins to heal : Mara has a successful evening as the star of her musical and regains her wounded self respect and Joaquín ( with the incredibly fine help of therapist Balbis ) shows he is shedding his pain of abandonment and growing toward a normal existence - these two factors set the stage for the film's conclusion . Director Daniel Barone takes this fragile tale and molds it into one of the more tender and touching films about the impact of childhood's ' tragedies ' that has been stated to date . The cinematography by Guillermo Zappino never forgets for a moment the dark tones underlying the lives of each of the characters . But the film would never have been so exacting and splendid were it not for the powerful performances by Adrián Suar and the extraordinarily beautiful and gifted Leticia Brédice ( ' Nine Queens ' , ' Burnt Money ' , ' Ashes from Paradise ' etc ) . The supporting cast is equally and homogeneously outstanding . This is one of those films that lingers in the mind , seeking stimuli for remembering our own demons of childhood , long after the credits are over . In Spanish with English subtitles , 110 minutes . Very Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Brilliant Play Transforms Magically into a Brilliant Film	Anyone who can watch the rolling credits at the end of THE HISTORY BOYS without tearful eyes simply hasn't been paying attention to this intelligent , richly comic , philosophical and tender tale of eight boys ostensibly preparing for exams but also preparing for life . The writing by Alan Bennett closely adapted from his prize winning play that was on the boards of theaters around the globe before being captured for posterity on film is ' rich and strange ' and so full of those values of achieving a true education that it serves not only the audience well but presents a gold standard for educators pondering how to transform their pupils into thinking , creative members of society . Very briefly , THE HISTORY BOYS are eight brilliant but ' crass ' young men in Cutler's Grammar School , each coming from backgrounds not considered ' quality ' by the British class standards . These boys are rowdy but committed to gaining admission to Oxford - a step toward erasing their class standing and proving their worth . The headmaster ( Clive Merrison ) , himself not too well educated , is bound to get these eight bright boys into the best schools and in that light he hires a new teacher Irwin ( Stephen Campbell Moore ) to buff the boys into a classy group who will be able to pass their essays and oral examinations . The existing teachers are the testy , frank Mrs . Lintott ( a fine Frances de la Tour ) and the massively obese Hector ( Richard Griffiths in a stunning performance ) who teaches ' general studies ' , a time when he lovingly coaxes the boys to embrace poetry , music , sentimentality , drama , art , and in general everything that allows them to take the moment and live it fully . The boys are torn between Irwin's pragmatic ' teach them how to take exams ' approach Hector's teach them how to embrace intelligence and life . Hector is known among the boys for fondling and the knowledge is accepted by the lads until Hector is seen fondling one of the boys on his motorbike and reported . This opens all manner of avenues of introspection , one of the boys confides to Irwin that he is homosexual , another of the lads declares that Irwin is gay and attempts a physical liaison with him , and the permutations move an down the line . But the exams come and the joy of accomplishing goals puts a different twist on matters and the ending is a touching as any on film . The entire cast is the original group that started the play and in addition to the fine performances by the adults , the boys are extraordinarily fine : Dominic Cooper ( Dakin ) , Jamie Parker ( Scripps ) , Samuel Barnett ( Posner ) , James Corden ( Timms ) , Sacha Dhawan ( Akhtar ) , Samuel Anderson ( Crowther ) , Russell Tovey ( Rudge ) , and Andrew Knott ( Lockwood ) . There is an obvious camaraderie among the actors that obviously grew from their long association with the roles . But the most impressive performance is the polished veteran actor Richard Griffiths who has created a role that will long remain in everyone's heart long after the movie has passed playing . For this viewer this is one of the very finest films of the past year ! Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Magnificence of Man's Bond with Animals and the Perpetuation of Life	' Kekelixi ' ( ' Mountain Patrol ' ) is one of those quiet , quasi-documentary films that now and then rises out of nowhere and has such an impact on the viewer that it has the potential for creating some global change action . Written and directed by Chuan Lu from China and sponsored in part by National Geographic the film was distributed as ' travel / foreign places / environmental issues ' product , and while it satisfies those designations , it resonates as a story that is not only based on fact , but one that opens our eyes to another way of life in a very remote area . The effect is stunning . A journalist from Beijing - Ga Yu ( Zhang Lei ) - travels to Tibet to investigate the poaching of Tibetan antelope and the group of unpaid citizens committed to eradicating the poachers and saving their beloved antelope . The leader of the mountain patrol is Ri Tai ( Duobuji ) and he has gathered devoted men who spend their lives selflessly searching for the elusive poachers . Ga Yu goes along for the search , camera in hand , capturing the magnificence of the mountains of Tibet , the men's camaraderie and commitment to their mission , and the fields of antelope carcasses left behind by the poachers whose only concern is to skin the antelope for their pelts of luxurious wool for the world market . The patrol encounters endless problems with their equipment , food supplies , loss of men to the poachers ' guns , and finally capture a group of men ( a family ) who serve as skinners for the pelts . Ri Tai attempts to remain fair and non-violent , but his attempts are constantly thwarted . Ga Yu changes from a journalist role to a committed hunter and his relationship with Ri Tai and the other patrolmen is exceedingly touching . The ending of the film is as quiet as the Tibetan landscape and equally as impactful . The cast is not known to this viewer , but it is difficult to imagine that Duobuji and Zhang Lei are amateur actors , so profoundly moving are their performances . The haunting music by Lao Zai and the breathtaking cinematography by Yu Cao support Chuan Lu's film . This art piece is excellent on many levels and is one that deserves a large audience . Highly recommended .
A Seeringly Poignant Examination of Religious Factions of India	Deepa Mehta has such a commanding presence in her films that she is able to leave her audience both educated and devastated by her stories and by the ingenious ways in which she tells them . EARTH is a magnificent example of her gifts and while it may not be as visually luxurious or as touching as her subsequent WATER , it is a fine film that not only depicts a troubled time in India's history , but also informs us of the intricacies of how people relate to each other - first as humans , second as religious sects . The film has at its heart the year 1947 when India was given its independence from Great Britain and at the same time bifurcated into two countries - India and Pakistan . The story opens with a tranquil park picnic in Lahore where friends - Hindu , Muslim , Sikh , Parsee - while away the afternoon in camaraderie . Only slight overtones of edgy topics about religion mar the conversation until the topic focuses on the incipient split of the country into two countries . Each of the friends represents each of the religious sects and it is how these differences , at once unimportant to friendship , end up in separating the friends under the influence of the devastation of bloodshed that follows the division of the country and the displacement of millions of people , all under the guise of independence . There is a strong love story , a committed crippled child who experiences all of the happiness and subsequent tragedy that is to follow and the story ends with some words of wisdom by the grown little girl reflecting on choices made , and other sidebars that maintain interest at every frame . The acting is first rate from a beautiful cast and Mehta's direction makes this tale of change whir by the viewer . For those not educated in the differences of the four religious sects of Hindu , Parsee , Muslim , and Sikh the tale can become confusing : would that Mehta would have included a discussion about the film in an added feature the way she helped us understand the plight of widows in WATER . And the subtitles unfortunately do not translate the English spoken portions of the film , portions that while very important to the story are nearly indecipherable due to the accents of the characters speaking . But these are minor quibbles in a film that pleads for repeated viewings , so beautiful is the movie and so very important is the message . Highly Recommended .
" I promise to tell your story "	With these words written on a visitors ' log in a memorial site in Rwanda , the reason for making this stunning film is posed . HOTEL RWANDA is not only a well written ( Keir Pearson ) , well directed ( Terry George ) , well acted ( entire cast ) work of cinematic history , it serves as a thunderingly loud announcement of how the world ignored the 1994 genocide in Rwanda , Africa - a country whose only exports are tea and coffee and therefore not high on the agendas of importance of the other nations of the world . HOTEL RWANDA brings us the realization that there are many unreported acts of inhumanity that never reach our television or radio or newspapers . How many of us knew about this incident before now ? But this well-crafted film is all the more poignant because it focuses on the quiet heroism of one elegant , enlightened hotel manager Paul Rusesabagina ( Don Cheadle ) and his response to the Tutsi rebel uprising that resulted in the slaughter of over a million people , and for what reason ? Going back to the time when Belgium ' owned ' the country they divided the people into the Tutsi and Hutu categories based on skin color , nasal width and other absurd parameters . With Belgium's exit the two parties were placed in delicate balance and long years of struggle for control resulted in the 1994 disaster . The senselessness of the genocide is shown by the selection of victims for which the Tutsi rebels depended on registration cards to identify Tutsis from Hutus : in reality the people had intermarried - even Hutu Paul was married to Tutsi Tatiana ( Sophie Okonedo ) - so that the killings were wholly irrational . Given this madness , Paul struggles with the insurgency and gives shelter to as many people as he can squeeze into his hotel , refugees including orphan Tutsis , hotel staff , and friends and fellow countrymen in need of a Gilead . All of this is happening while the United Nations contingency led by Col . Oliver ( Nick Nolte ) is impotent and the outside reporters such as Jack Daglich ( Joaquin Phoenix ) grab footage of the slaughter and flee to safety . Only a Red Cross nurse Pat Archer ( Cara Seymour ) remains to assist in any way she can . Paul attempts to contact the outside world through his employer Mr . Tillens ( Jean Reno ) of the Belgian Sabena Airlines , but the world refuses to recognize the reality of Paul's plight in saving his countrymen . The cast is exceptional : Don Cheadle and Sophie Okoneda are brilliant in their roles and the supporting cast is superb . The DVD opens with a statement from Don Cheadle the actor , the movie unfolds , and the remainder of the CD includes ' the making of ' sequences and historical segments that for once are not self-serving aggrandizement , but sensitively informing pleas for understanding and digestion of a genocide that was ignored . This is a powerful film that deals with an atrocity without electing to lambaste the viewer with gore : the message is more powerful for its understatement .
The Gradual Disintegration of " Little Man's " Mind and Life	THE ASSASSINATION OF RICHARD NIXON is clearly one of the most profoundly disturbing films of the past few years . It is a shocker that is all the more powerful for the low-key presentation that acts as a prelude to a pitiful tragedy . The added fact that this story , so creatively written for the screen by Director Niels Mueller and screenwriter Kevin Kennedy , is based on true story makes it all the more harrowing . Few of us knew about the tale of Sam Byck who on February 27 , 1974 attempted to hijack a passenger plane out of Baltimore in order to destroy President Nixon , the figurehead of all Byck's failure and frustration with life in an America gone sour for the Little Man . Even in his vengeful attempt to gain justice for his life gone awry and become a ' somebody ' the world would notice he failed and committed suicide aboard his unsuccessfully hijacked plane . Mueller and Kennedy have , by admission in the credits , altered the names and locations and events of the real story in order to emphasize the anatomy of a mind in the process of disintegration . Same Bicke ( Sean Penn ) is a well-meaning , borderline adapted , perpetual loser , a man who as the film begins is taping a farewell tape to Leonard Bernstein , one of the few men he admires . Appropriately throughout the film the background music is Beethoven's ' Emperor Concerto ' ( many double meanings ) and a Piano Sonata , the music lending a sense of surrealistic sanity to the events unfolding . Bicke is separated from his wife Marie ( Naomi Watts ) and children and yearns to be reunited , much against the will of Marie . He is employed by a furniture sales store and his boss Jack ( Jack Thompson ) preaches Dale Carnegie and The Power of Positive Thinking to encourage Sam to sell , sell , sell with little attention to clients ' needs except lying to get their money . Sam plans / dreams of owning his own traveling Tire Store with his best friend mechanic Bonny ( Don Cheadle ) : Sam has left the employ of his brother Julius ( Michael Wincott ) who still runs the family's tire business in a less than scrupulous manner . Sam applies to the Small Business Association for a loan and encounters bureaucratic red tape to further thwart his goals . In his broken state of receiving a Divorce Decree from Marie , being refused his loan , losing / quitting his job , observing the ( exaggerated ) racism against Bonny and the sexism against Marie , he begins to focus on the omnipresent television broadcasts of Richard Nixon making the dastardly comments about money and war and the Watergate mess . With his life in shreds he manufactures the plan for destroying Nixon in an act that , as he has explained to Leonard Bernstein on tape , will finally make the world pay attention to the honest worker little men : he will be remembered for this final act . The remainder of the film is a hushed denouement that unveils Sam's preparations , rehearsals , and ultimate failed scheme . Sean Penn is extraordinary as Sam Bicke , creating a downtrodden man whose grip on life is far too tenuous to even approach success in any endeavor and yet shows us the idealism and naiveté of this Everyman that makes us yearn for some degree of reward for him . It is by far the most underplayed role in Penn's shining repertoire and certainly one of his finest creations . The entire cast is excellent : Jack Thompson is oily and hateful as he wears a Cheshire Cat grin , Naomi Watts as usual makes an unforgettable , credible character with very little screen time , and Don Cheadle and Michael Wincott provide some of the more soft and memorable lines to offset Penn's thought processes . The direction of Niels Mueller is astonishingly well paced and his subtle choices of claustrophobic spaces for portraying the inner mind of Bicke and his use of Beethoven's music to delicately underscore the initial concept of a tape to conductor Leonard Bernstein are choices that come from a profoundly dedicated cinematic artist . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp , April 05
A Film as Subtle and Intelligent as a Fine Novel : Gothic Realism	It is rare to come across films as unique and fine tuned as CHRYSTAL , even more so when the only recognizable feature is the big name star on the film's cover . But in this first cinematic outing by the enormously gifted Ray McKinnon there are so many sparks of greatness that they dwell on the screen like glowing embers until the collective heat explodes into a impressive fire of creative skill . Ray McKinnon both wrote and directed this film and also plays one of the key characters ( in an award-deserving performance for supporting actor ! ) . His method of telling a story is as slow and gradual as a festering abscess and he makes his audience stay alert until all of the dots are gradually joined to reveal the whole picture : that takes writing and directing guts in a time when audiences want to be spoon fed linear plots summarized in a sentence . McKinnon's courage ( and budgetary constraints ) made him cast his film with mostly unknown actors , each of whom performs like seasoned veterans . How much of that is due to the presence of such fine talent as Billy Bob Thornton , Harry Dean Stanton , and Lisa Blount is up for speculation , but it is McKinnon's sure hand both in writing and in directing that makes this little film so pungent and memorable . Joe ( Billy Bob Thornton - in a brilliantly understated performance ) returns to a little trashy town in Arkansas in mid Ozarks after a 20 year prison time for drugs , DUI , and attempts to escape : his imprisonment began after a car crash that killed his young son and left his wife Chrystal ( Lisa Blount , an actress of tremendous depth ) with a broken neck and a broken spirit and soul , living in squalor and providing sex for all of the men and boys of the area . Chrystal is a used , spent , fragile creature , in constant pain from her neck fracture and living like a walking emotional zombie . Joe returns , and without much dialogue cleans the yard and house and land and ensconces himself on the porch of their house , tended only by Chrystal's confused old dog . Word gets around that Joe , known for his growing of high caliber marijuana before incarceration , has returned and the local smarmy drug king Snake ( Ray McKinnon ) and his pals attempt to draw Joe back into a life of crime . Joe aches for redemption for his past mistakes , longs to retrieve his marriage with the severely emotionally damaged Chrystal , and is willing to fight to protect his new life . Gruesome encounters with Snake and with the townsfolk ensue . With all of the myriad pieces of this story finally woven into an amazing quilt , Joe and Chrystal come as close to redemption as is feasible . The story is so much more layered than this too brief synopsis , but revealing more would deprive the viewer of the heady work and rewards of staying with this stunning film . The musical score is spare but eminently appropriate , combining Bruce Springsteen records with original music by Stephen Trask and some haunting Ozark tunes sung by Lisa Blount , Harry Dean Stanton ( as Pa Da ) and others . The setting is atmospheric and the cinematography by Adam Kimmel captures McKinnon's story's mood impeccably . The cast is some of the finest ensemble acting seen in years , especially in view of the fact that most of the actors have little screen experience . Sounds like a rave review ? Well , it is . This is one extraordinary piece of work and just like the not dissimilar Faulkner novels it takes work , but the payoff is equally satisfying . Highly Recommended - for viewing , for the afterburn of the experience , and for votes for just awards ! Grady Harp
Longing and Loving and the Precipice of War	Claude Miller has created one of the more challenging and intensely human dramas about World War II in his film UN SECRET ( A SECRET ) . Though one of many stories about the plight of Jews during the events that lead up to and exploded into WW II , Miller's story is less about the cruel destiny of the Jews in Hitler's plundering of Europe than it is a study of a few individuals who struggled with their identity in the face of probable extermination . Based on a true story in Phillippe Grimbert's novel by the same name , UN SECRET gracefully and artistically draws the viewer into the psyche of the narrator François Grimbert ( played at ages 7 , 14 and 37 by Valentin Vigourt , Quentin Dubuis , and Matthew Almaric ) whose relationship to his father Maxime ( Patrick Bruel ) has always been strained . The story winds from contemporary time , to the period in France before WW II , through the horrors of the Halocaust , and the years of rebuilding following the war . Maxime ' Grinberg ' ( Patrick Bruel ) marries Hannah ( Ludvine Sagnier ) in a beautiful Jewish wedding . Hannah's brother is married to a brilliant athlete Tania ( Cecile De France ) and even at the wedding the equally athletic Maxime has eyes for Tania . All possible conflicts seem to diminish when Maxime and Hannah have a son , Simon ( Orlando Nicoletti ) who develops into a naturally gifted athlete ? the joy of Maxime's life . As WW II approaches the Jews of Paris are instructed to wear their yellow Star of David patches , and while Hannah feels pride in her race , Maxime refuses to be ' labeled ' and defies the ruling . When the SS come to transport Jews out of Paris , Hannah and Simon are removed to a camp while Maxime manages to stay in Paris with a new French name . Popular as a fashion model and designer , Tania is able to stay unnoticed as a Jew also , but her husband is off to war and extermination . Maxime and Tania learn of their families ' demise and bond , eventually marrying using French names ( Grimberg becomes Grimbert ) , join the Catholic Church and have a son ? François ? who is nothing like Simon nor does he know of his father's rejection of him as a poor comparison to the perfect Simon But as the years pass François discovers his family's past and a reconciliation with his Jewish heritage confronts him . How the maturing François ultimately relates to his distant father brings closure to the story . The cast is excellent , including some of the lesser roles - especially the ever-present Louise ( Julie Depardieu ) - played by gifted actors . Claude Miller's recreation of time lapses is successfully highlighted by interchanging black and white with color photography ( by cinematographer Gérard de Battista ) and the changing moods of the story are greatly enhanced by the musical score by Zibigniew Preisner . UN SECRET , then , is a stunning work that explains many aspects of the varying responses of Jews to that horrid period of history designed by Hitler . It is a deeply satisfying and profoundly moving film . Highly recommended .
A Tightly Written , Directed and Acted Controversial Thriller	HARD CANDY is one of those films that took enormous courage on the part of the writer ( Brian Nelson ) , director ( David Slade ) , and producers - let alone the actors - to bring a tale of pedophilia to the mainstream audience . Made for a small budget ( yet the production values are so very artistic that it feels like an expensive film ) , HARD CANDY is essentially a duet for two actors : the actors Ellen Page and Patrick Wilson deliver performances that become indelibly burned on the mind of the viewer . 32-year old photographer Jeff has been chatting online with 14-year old Haley for three weeks using standard chat room seduction lines . They meet , talk , seem to get along well - until Haley invites herself to Jeff's home , much against Jeff's better judgment . Once home the beautiful space in which Jeff lives ( the set decor is splendid , using sensitive colors in a cinematic way ) , the walls adorned with photographs of young models , seems a fitting space for a fine photographer . But soon the twist of the story explodes and Haley lets Jeff know that she is there to punish him for his pedophilia and for some specific events in his history . She drugs him , and when he awakens Jeff is the captive , forced to undergo the intensive questioning and innuendos from Haley , including being set up for castration . The tension mounts to a peak as the two characters uncover aspects of each other ; the final resolution of the long encounter comes as a stunning surprise . The quality of the film is so fine that no judgments are made : is Jeff truly a criminal pedophile ? , is Haley insane ? , can this reversal of roles happen ? The script is so beautifully written that it remains intelligent and straight , forcing the viewer to become involved in the quest for truth . Ellen Page delivers a brilliant performance as Haley and Patrick Wilson steps out of his usual milk toast roles to create a man driven by strange needs who gradually comes to a point of self acceptance in one of the more powerful scenes of film this viewer has seen . The audience for this examination of pedophilia may be small and therein lies the pity . This is a film that deals with a tough subject so very well that the viewer gains an understanding into dysfunctional characteristics while being caught up in a suspenseful thriller of a story . This is independent film making at its best .
Cultural Transplantation : How to Create a New Life	BRICK LANE is one of the more satisfying films about our remaining cultural identity crises . Based on the novel by Monica Ali and adapted for the screen by Laura Jones , this film flows through the lives of young Bangladeshi sisters - one married off to a successful older obese fellow countryman living in London and the other remaining in the family village . The story is at once sensitively private in its communication between the separated sisters whose sole communication is by letters , each longing for the other sister's advantages , and also woven into a public examination of how ' immigrants ' adapt in a foreign country , absorbing all the idiosyncrasies of that new land and the altered perception of the world outside as it changes in dramatic ways . Nazeem ( the radiantly beautiful Tannishtha Chatterjee ) is married by arrangement to the fat successful Chanu ( Satish Kaushik ) : the two take up residence on the Brick Lane known as London's Little Bangladesh . Nazeem is a quiet and dutiful wife ( longing for her sister and her village home ) , bears Chanu a son ( who dies a crib death ) and two daughters who comfortably are absorbed into the country of England , the only home they know . The aging Chanu is intelligent but fails to hold jobs , partly because of this outspoken behavior and in part due to prejudice of his employers . Nazeem longs to return to Bangladesh , but when she is required to take in sewing to aid the falling family coffers , she meets the young and handsome Karim ( Christopher Simpson ) . The two fall in love and Nazeem struggles with her duties and moral obligations as a wife and mother and her surfacing realization of her own identity . The Twin Tower tragedy of occurs and the people of London turn against the Muslims : Karim is an activist and defends the rights of his fellow Bangladeshi brothers , hoping to encourage Nazeem to join him and remain in London . Nazeem struggles between passion and duty and ultimately finds her own path - becoming a complete woman individual of mature mind . And the results of her growth spell out the ending of the film . The cast is large and very fine , and the photography by Robbie Ryan captures both the childhood remembered magic of Bangladesh and the raw realism of life in London . The musical score by Jocelyn Pook enhances the changing moods of this touching and significant movie . Director Sarah Gavron has found the perfect balance to tell this story of love , family obligations , and the changes of the world events . It is a film well worth seeing multiple times . Grady Harp
Discovering Love : The Longing to Make It Fit	E . Annie Proulx visited a cowboy bar in Wyoming and felt an underlying eroticism seething in that most macho of possible places . That observation translated into a courageous short story in 1997 , a study of love between two cowboys whose world would never condone such feelings ( remember Laramie ? ) , and so ' Brokeback Mountain ' was born in New Yorker Magazine . Now that tender and heartbreaking tale of hidden , durable , passionate love between two young men trapped in a society that will not allow such feelings has been luminously transformed in to a film : it is rewarding to see how successful that long journey became . The story is so well known that it need not be summarized beyond the brief statement that two nineteen year old young men , both with histories of abandonment , need , and pain , find physical attraction in the cold nights on Brokeback Mountain while guarding sheep , and though both assure each other that neither is gay , the love creeps out of the night physicality into the daytime sunny thrills of feeling alive and cared for . After only a couple of months , their job completed , they part ways , each marrying , having children , but over almost twenty years they periodically reconnect , understanding the depth of their forbidden love , and cope the best they can . Divorces ensue , promises of being together permanently are thwarted by a number of reasons , and the while the story evaporates into the lonely landscape of Wyoming , the love that bonded them , a love they could never ' own ' , ends . Ang Lee molds this magnificently poignant love story with grace , style , realism , and bravery . Proulx's story is made visual by Larry McMurtry and Diana Ossana's screenplay and while the script is true to the story on the whole , there is much added business about the wives and children and parents that perhaps is necessary for moviegoers to ' get it ' , but in this viewer's mind is less sensitive than the extended silences within the vast spaces of Wyoming that made Proulx ' story so quietly and powerfully understated . Heath Ledger is superb as Ennis Del Mar but Jake Gyllenhaal is equally as strong as Jack Twist : together they create a chemistry racked with pain as well as bliss and make their characters totally believable . Michelle Williams does well as Ennis ' long suffering wife Alma , while Anne Hathaway remains Anne Hathaway , a lady far too elegant to be convincing as the cowgirl Lurene the Jack marries in the vacuum without Ennis . But criticisms are few ( the only major one is that Gyllenhaal has not been sufficiently recognized for his brilliant portrayal in Heath Ledger's shadow ) . This is a beautiful film that addresses love and all its permutations and it is so refreshing to see a story of this depth and significance so quietly and tenderly placed before the theater audience . Highly recommended . Grady Harp , December 05
Global Coincidences Tied Brilliantly Together in a Stunning Film	Alejandro González Iñárritu and his creative partner Guillermo Arriaga are becoming two of the more significant artists in film of this century . They have worked together on ' Amores perros ' then ' 21 Grams ' , gradually going from independent low budget , highly sophisticated controversial films to the point where those who produce films are willing to invest the big bucks that it takes to create a film like BABEL . The two men , writer / director and writer , seem to maintain an almost theatrical company around them : many of the same actors appear , the same crews , etc and the result is ensemble film-making whose final impact rests solely on the message of the film itself . Though this is one of the finest casts assembled yet this year , it would be difficult to select one or two as Oscar contenders , but it is certain the film and its director will gather awards wherever they are wisely and thoughtfully given . The story seems complex , spread as it is from Morocco , San Diego , Tokyo , and Mexico , but the unifying element is so simple that it makes the audience shudder . A rifle owned by a Tokyo based Japanese hunter is given to his Moroccan guide who in turn sells it to a poor Moroccan peasant whose two young sons guard and use for innocent practice until the younger son shoots at a tourist bus , injuring an American woman who is traveling with her husband , mending a strained marriage . The couple's children are at home in San Diego with their Mexican nanny who adores them and when no friends will help her is forced to take them with her to Mexico with her loony nephew to attend her son's wedding . All is well until the time to return home involves a foolish car chase through the Mexican American border and the nanny is arrested as an illegal immigrant despite her fifteen-year presence in California as the beloved housekeeper for the vacationing couple . Meanwhile , in Japan , the deaf mute young daughter of the man who began the problems with his gift of the rifle to the Moroccan , longs for attention from her father and escape from her misunderstood world of silence and goes to sad extremes to gain male affection , affection which involves the police who merely want to question her father about his rifle gift . Sound extraordinary ? It is , and yet the manner in which Alejandro González Iñárritu and Guillermo Arriaga tell the story the string of bad luck coincidences focus on the problems of communication ( from foreign language to sign language ) deficits , misguided political obstructive processes , and the desperate need we all have for love and caring and understanding . The cast is enormous and uniformly outstanding : Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchette are the parents , Elle Fanning and Nathan Gamble their children , Adriana Barraza their nanny ( a stunning actress this ! ) , Gael García Bernal her irresponsible nephew , Michael Peña ( so memorable in ' Crash ' ) and Clifton Collins Jr . the border guards , Rinko Kikuchi the deaf mute young girl , and a group of Moroccan and Japanese actors that are too many to list . The cinematographer is Rodrigo Prieto , the incredibly important film editors are Douglas Crise and Stephen Mirrione , and the astonishing music score is the product of the gifted Gustavo Santaolalla . But it is the devotion of Alejandro González Iñárritu that leaves us with the punch-in-the-stomach ache that this superb film produces . This is a tough movie to watch , but one we should all see and see again . It is as fine as any film to be released this year . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Brutally Powerful Documentary : Wiktor Grodecki's Precursor to MANDRAGOR	Wiktor Grodecki is a brave filmmaker , one who is unafraid to address a controversial subject , yet one who is able to make a powerful sociological statement by creating a metaphorical art film that demands respect . Grodecki interviews young boys ( ages 14 - 17 ) who are male hustlers in Prague : he wisely removes ( for the most part ) the interviewer questions allowing the individual boys to make spontaneous , searing comments . These young lads discuss why they became male prostitutes , how they deal with selling their bodies , where they find their business ( the train station , the swimming pools , etc ) , how they feel about the johns and about their fellow hustlers , the manner in which they do business including the way in which the financial aspects come to play - all in a way that burns the faces of these young lads into our psyches . About half way through this film Grodecki introduces Pavel Rousek , a man who by day is a pathologist performing autopsies in the Prague morgue and in his off hours ( using the pseudonym Hans Miller ) creates , casts and directs gay porno videos in his home . Rousek is shown at the autopsy table gowning , gloving , and grotesquely performing an autopsy on a real cadaver while discussing both professions . There are moments while he is gloving that he explains why he doesn't allow his boys to wear condoms ( the buyers of his videos don't want to see condoms ) , and the contrast between his self protection vs the enforcement of prevention of sexual protection of his actors is devastating . Rousek as Miller is then shown filming the boys in his home , explaining the details of achieving the visual effects of pornography : simultaneously we again hear the boys views of that aspect of their ' careers ' , creating a pitiful tension . There is almost no total nudity in this film and when it does occur the lighting is so dark as to obscure it - making the overall effect even more dense and effectively tense . Under all of this lurid talk Grodecki uses classical music - Albinoni , Mahler , Mozart - which again provides a contradiction that makes the topic digestible . The final question Grodecki poses to his subjects involves the boys perception of ' soul ' and while there is a variety of responses , the overall message is that these lads sell their bodies as a career , but the soul is ' what you think ' , something that cannot be taken from you . Several of these boys have screen presence and faces that , were they noticed by regular film makers , would probably give them legitimate careers . But the power of the film comes from the words of these boys , knowing completely their choice of life , and therein lies the sorrow . This is a tough but very fine piece of film-making . Interestingly , Grodecki absorbed this material and used it to create his subsequent feature film MANDRAGORA ( reviewed under that title ) . This film is the more powerful of the two . Not a movie for everyone , but certainly an important document about a way of life few know and fewer understand . Grady Harp
' In LA , people don't touch . They're separated by glass and steel . . '	and the only time they come into contact is by crash ' . And with these words Paul Haggis tears open the box of CRASH , one of the most searingly vital and important films of the year . This is a film that explores prejudice , racism , fear , hate , bigotry , random violence and all of those barriers we people of the cities have erected to isolate ourselves from the miscegenated world in which we live . In Haggis ' hands every possible form of miscommunication based on ignorance and transference of self-loathing is woven together in a story that mixes Caucasian , African American , Asia , Persian , Hispanic conflicts and lifestyles and the concurrent disruption of world views gone wrong into a pungent story of tragedy and collision . Every character in this well-crafted script eventually confronts every other character in ways that are at times coincidental , at times , tangential , and at other times the direct result of prior confrontations . African Americans bully each other over their own prejudices , Caucasians belittle their Hispanic workers and are the first to point the finger at the ' tattooed gangsters ' who in reality are innocent tradesmen , Persians terrorized on their property immediately aim their hate at other minority suspects , redneck racist policemen thrash out at African Americans in response to their own personal family demons that have eroded their outlook and extend that venom to the most innocent of the rookie cops who metamorphose into like habits . Every form of prejudice and hate is encountered and none of the characters is free from being both the perpetrator and the victim . It is as though the Golden Rule of ' Do unto others as you would have others do unto you ' has been hideously transformed into a reason for violence . Each member of this extraordinary ensemble acting team is outstanding form those with the largest parts to those whose presence is fleetingly meaningful . And some of the actors heretofore know as B actors rise to the level of brilliance under Haggis ' knowing direction . Matt Dillon , Ryan Phillippe , Don Cheadle , Terrence Howard ( here is a star ! ) , Thandie Newton , Chris ' Ludacris ' Bridges , Larenz Tate , Loretta Devine ( extraordinary ! ) , Beverly Todd , Jennifer Esposito , Michael Pena ( who delivers the most affecting scene in the film ) , Shaun Toub , Yomi Perry , Brendan Frasier , Sandra Bullock , Tony Danza , William Fichtner - indeed , the list of the entire cast should be included in the kudos . People leave the theater stunned , tearful , informed , and incredulous , so great is the impact of this film . Much or that impact is aided by the brilliantly creative cinematography of James Muro and Dana Gonzales and by the powerful musical score by Mark Isham . This is quite simply one of the finest films of the year by anyone's standards . For those critics who descry Haggis ' lack of providing ' Redemption ' for the characters , this viewer would take offense : every character is altered either tangentially , directly , or referentially by the tightly woven tapestry that is CRASH . Recommended for everyone to see , internalize , and begin to make changes on our planet . Grady Harp
Cinematic Splendor : ATONEMENT reaches the standard of the novel	For those who have had the immense pleasure of reading Ian McEwan's ATONEMENT not once but several times , basking in not only the brilliant story / mystery but also in the inordinately beautiful language , rest assured that the film not only does the book justice in the transference to the screen , but in the hands of screenplay writer Christopher Hampton ( we know that McEwan approved of the modifications as McEwan is one of the producers of the film ) becomes even more clear in its realization of the complex plot and finds the visual beauty inherent in McEwan's prose . Joe Wright as director steers this story well , finding just the right amount of back and forth nonlinear development that formed the magic of McEwan's initial weaving . The cast is uniformly superb . From the initial self-centered liar Briony Tallis ( an impressive Saoirse Ronan ) to the years ' later sorrowfully guilty young nurse Briony ( Romola Garai ) to the ' epilogue ' Briony of Vanessa Redgrave , the entire story is adroitly centered on this perpetrator of tragedy . But without the power of James McAvoy's falsely accused Robby Turner and Keira Knightley's tragic Cecilia Tallis the triad would not work . Even the smaller yet important roles assigned to Gina McGee , Brenda Blethyn , Jérémie Renier and countless others are played to perfection . The cinematography by Seamus McGarvey captures not only the misty tranquility of 1935 pre-war England complete with creative use of luminous light sources as well as the raw brutality of the battlefields as England enters WW II . Dario Marianelli's music score ( much of it played by pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet ! ) incorporates the superb Sir Thomas Beecham recording of ' La Boheme ' with de los Angeles and Björling as incidental music to the typing of Robby's fateful note and then proceeds to incorporate the typewriter as if it were an instrument in his orchestrations . Rarely has this viewer been so moved by a film ( and perhaps that may have been related to just having heard a performance of Britten's WAR REQUIEM at the Los Angeles Philharmonic the previous night ! ) : it is the perfect marriage of novel , cinematic realization and commitment on the part of all concerned in the creation of this superlative film . Highly Recommended on every level . Grady Harp
The Search for Ways to Fill Holes in the Soul	Karen Moncrief has written and directed this terrifying , searching , agonizing , and exceptionally fine story of the responses of five different people to the discovery of a dead girl . By dividing her story into chapters named after The Stranger , The Daughter , The Mother , The Wife , The Sister , and The Dead Girl she offers us fully realized characters , each of whom is affected by the opening discovery of a mutilated young dead girl's body . The technique of non-linear film is not new , but Moncrief raises it to a new , powerful level , a fact that makes this film one of the more sophisticated and successful of the past few years . Arden ( Toni Collette ) is a homely frail girl who accidentally discovers the dead girl , taking a necklace from the corpse before reporting the discovery to the police . She is a caretaker for an invalid , foul-mouthed cruel mother ( Piper Laurie ) who berates Arden for being so ugly and for involving them in a murder case . Arden flees , meets The Stranger Rudy ( Giovanni Ribisi ) , a tattooed , scary appearing guy who is attracted to Arden because she appears so innocent . He courts her with tales of serial killer manners and yet eventually gains Arden's fractured self-perception trust with physical contact . The next chapter introduces Leah ( Rose Byrne ) who works with Derek ( James Franco ) in the mortuary where the dead girl's body has been deposited for autopsy . Leah discovers markings on the dead girl that convince her this is the sister who has been missing for 15 years , a fact that her parents ( Mary Steenburgen and Bruce Davison ) refuse to accept . Leah's tenuous hold on reality is altered by Derek's consolation and physical attention . The Wife episode offers a view of Mary ( Mary Beth Hurt ) and Carl ( Nick Searcy ) , a married couple with mutual distrust : Mary knows Carl has flings with prostitutes while Carl feels Mary is too controlling . Mary discovers a chest of torn bloody underwear in one of their business Storage Containers , connects the items with Carl in a suspicion that Carl may be related to the death of the dead girl , and burns them . In The Mother we finally meet the true mother Melora ( Marcia Gay Harden ) of the dead girl Kritsta ( Britanny Murphy ) as she traces the clues from the body to a seedy motel where she meets Rosetta ( Kerry Washington ) , Krista's roommate and lover , only to discover that the dead Krista ran away from home to become a prostitute and drug addict in response to a childhood abuse problem with her father . Melora is informed that Krista has an illegitimate three-year-old daughter Ashley whom Krista loved and Melora seeks to care for the only remains of the dead girl - her granddaughter and her lover . This film beams with brilliant performances : Collette , Harden , Byrne , Laurie , Hurt , Searcy , Washington , Steenburgen , Franco and Ribisi are poignant in their depiction of damaged people whose lives are altered by the Dead Girl . This is ensemble acting of the finest category . The production values are strong and the director's control of what could have been a meandering saga is firm and keeps the story from becoming sensationalized . This is yet another brilliant little film that deserves a very wide audience . Grady Harp
Staggeringly Beautiful Cinematic Epic	CASA DE AREIA ( ' HOUSE OF SAND ) is a masterpiece of film-making from Brazil . Written by Elena Soarez and Luis Carlos Barreto the story seems more a magical metaphor than a tale of real life - until the film concludes and the immediacy and universality of the messages haunt the viewer's mind for hours . It is a film directed by Andrucha Waddington with a cast of superb actors but the focus of the film , the films central character , is the bleak isolation of the sweeping desert of Northern Brazil . The film opens in 1910 with a caravan of wind swept characters appearing in the distance of the dunes of the desert , a group of wayfarers apparently escaping the poverty of the bog city to find a home of their own , land that can be called something that belongs to them . They are led by Vasco de Sá ( Ruy Guerra ) and his wife Áurea ( Fernanda Torres ) and her mother Dona Maria ( Fernanda Montenegro ) , both of whom plead with Vasco to let them return to the poverty of the city instead of being forced to attempt to exist in the sands of the windy desert . Vasco is determined , builds a house , forces the women to live there and the others to pitch tents to exist . Áurea becomes pregnant , Vasco is confronted by the real owners of the land led by Massu ( Seu Jorge ) , and must trade his possessions to remain in his ' home ' , a home which crashes around him leaving Vasco dead and Áurea and Dona Maria to fend for themselves . The others desert the two women and the women find their only help in Massu . Time passes slowly ( to 1919 ) and the changing sands begin to bury the house . Áurea , now a mother of a daughter Maria ( Camilla Facundes ) , finds a telescope and sets out to see if she can find its owner and a way out of the desert . She encounters a group of scientists photographing the solar eclipse , a group protected by Luiz ( Enrique Díaz ) who bonds with Áurea , has a night affair with her , and then promises to take Áurea , her old mother Dona Maria , and her young daughter Maria to the city . Áurea sets out for her house only to find it now covered with a dune , her mother dead and her daughter Maria traumatized : the chance for escape is gone . We move to 1942 and daughter Maria is now a woman ( played by Fernanda Montenegro ) who has bonded with Massu ( now played by Luiz Melodia ) and her sensual daughter Maria ( played by Fernanda Torres ) are still waiting for the return of Luiz . The older Luiz ( Stênio Garcia ) returns and Maria seduces him , even though Luiz knows she is his old lover's daughter . He returns to the house , meets the ' Áurea / Maria ' he loved and ultimately agrees to take the younger Maria to the city : the older Maria elects to stay with Massu . Again time leaps to 1970 and the younger Maria in hippie outfit drives out to see her mother ( both Marias are now played by Fernanda Montenegro ) and the reunion of hopes and dreams of over 60 years are realized in a manner that brings the film to a haunting conclusion . The cast is extraordinarily fine , blending into the movement of nature and symbolizing the elements of love , longing , loneliness , destiny , and survival . The repeated use of the two major actresses is a stroke of genius : we are caught up in the intuitive understanding of all the manifestations of these two women over time as they change roles not only as actresses but also as blending characters . In a fine touch of genius , the films credits are rolled as Brazilian pianist Nelson Friere plays the Chopin ' Raindrop Prelude ' . It is a moving ending to a magnificent film . Highly recommended . In Portuguese with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The DVD Package Makes CAPOTE Even More Gripping	CAPOTE is a great movie . Let that be said at the beginning of this review . The superb screenplay by Dan Futterman based on the book by Gerald Clarke in turn based on that part of the life of Truman Capote when he was obsessed with writing his final and finest novel ' In Cold Blood ' , and the extraordinary directing by Bennett Miller who influenced a fine production crew and coaxed brilliant performances from his cast is all a well established fact . That all of this could be brought together in the featurettes that accompany the film on the DVD release is an example of just how fine additive commentaries can be . This is not only a superb film ; it is also an equally superb DVD package . Philip Seymour Hoffman as the idiosyncratic author Truman Capote probes the psyche of this strange but gifted writer from his first newspaper clipping of the November 15 , 1959 brutal murders of the Clutter family in Holbrook through his immersion in the tiny Kansas town accompanied by his friend and fellow writer Harper Lee ( Catherine Keener ) absorbing the atmosphere where such a deed could happen , ingratiating himself with investigator Alvin Dewey ( Chris Cooper ) and his wife Marie ( Amy Ryan ) to gain access to information that will eventually result in material for his projected book . He becomes obsessed with the murderers Perry Smith ( Clifton Collins , Jr . ) and Richard Hickock ( Mark Pellegrino ) , connecting with Smith in particular on a very basic level and providing the men with lawyers to appeal their conviction for a long enough time to eventually hear the truth of the night of grisly mayhem that fascinates Capote so . The story ends with the execution of Smith and Hickock in 1965 , an occasion that further bewilders the now fragile mind of Capote as he gains the end to his story while simultaneously watching the loved Smith dangle from the scaffold in death . Each actor is exceptional here : Hoffman does indeed deserve his Oscar for a brilliant portrayal . But it is the aftermath that brings even more poignancy to the film . Hearing Bennett , Clarke , and Futterman discuss the origin of the cinematic idea blends naturally with the production crews ' commentary about the choice of Winnipeg , Canada as the location to depict Kansas , the thorough preparation of the design and costuming and color palette and camera techniques , and then the comments by four of the main actors ( Hoffman , Keener , Cooper , and Collins ) illuminate not only the characters they depicted in the film but also the dynamics of entering into this strange world of bleak winter murder . The effect of the featurettes is staggering and makes the viewer want to immediately replay the entire movie . This DVD package should serve as the template for future releases : the disc in its entirety is an art form that has few peers . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Attraction of Opposites : Breaking Down Barriers	' VERSO NORD ' ( ' Without Conscience ' ) is one of those unheralded Italian films that deal with controversial subjects while retaining a story of human compassion and love . It is a film with equal parts brutality and tenderness and the direction and writing ( Stefano Reali ) and cast that make it work exceedingly well . Mauro ( Maurizio Mattioli ) is an emotionally needy and lonely middle-aged male nurse , working for a physician ( whom he wishes to impress ) who connects Mauro with a group of questionable types led by Gino ( Claudio Bigali ) dealing in the transport of undocumented children from Morocco and other countries to ' buyers / adoptive parents ' . When Mauro meets the smarmy crew and the boy Eddi ( Mohamed Ismail Bayed ) is selected , he is joined by a strangely quiet , powerfully brutal fighter , but exceptionally handsome young man Rollo ( Valerio Foglia Manzillo ) . Mauro is the guardian , the driver of his boss ' Mercedes , and the verbal member of the unlikely trio as they begin their drive from Rome to the Swiss border . Rollo is mysterious , seems to react to stimuli in a Pavlovian way , gets in to fights and trouble from the start , but becomes increasingly devoted to the mute Eddi in the back seat . Mauro and Rollo gradually form an alliance out of need and out of mutual growing love for Eddi and for each other . Mauro senses a feral quality in Rollo , realizes through his inappropriate behavior towards bar girls that he has never experienced intimacy , and finds a prostitute Elena ( Ana Papadopulu ) who not only fills the sexual void in Rollo's life but also begins to teach him the gentle quality of intimacy . But with her comes the baggage of criminal pimps who further hamper the safety of Mauro's delivery mission . The film develops into a chase film with the now quartet of Mauro , Rollo , Eddi , and Elena madly striving to reach the safety of the Swiss border and the reward of delivering Eddi to adoptive parents . The manner in which the movie ends is best left to the discovery of the individual viewer : the unlikely pairing of Mauro and Rollo serves as the nidus for one of the more beautiful friendships on film . The acting is exceptional in this film : Maurizio Mattioli creates a gay character impossible not to love while the inordinately handsome and charismatic Valerio Foglia Manzillo brings a presence to the screen that promises an exciting career ! Stefano Reali finds just the right balance between the always popular gangster atmosphere films and the intensely personal views of unexpected human love stories . The pacing is breathtaking , the cinematography is magnificent , and the message is timely and universal . In Italian , French , Bulgarian , etc and with English subtitles . Recommended . Grady Harp
" If you're a white guy , you can get away with anything "	So speaks Andre Stander the day after a massive riot in Johannesburg South Africa in which Stander as a police captain finds himself killing a Zulu man in a morally shattering encounter . This utter disillusionment with the police force and their responses to the Apartheid situation makes Stander withdraw emotionally and physically from the Riot Squad and eventually his challenge that the blacks are unduly mistreated leads him to break the white laws by initiating a string of bank robberies - not for money but for a bizarre sort of revenge . Stander ( Tom Jane ) is good at what he does , both as a cop and as a criminal , but his clever bank heists eventually result in his being jailed where he finds two partners ( David O'Hara and Dexter Fletcher ) to join him in escape and in one of the longest bank robbery sprees in the history of South Africa . Stander remains conflicted : he loves his new wife Bekkie ( Deborah Kara Unger ) , he knows what he is doing is wrong , but the money is often shared with the blacks of Johannesburg , and he is driven to leave South Africa to eventually locate in Lauderdale , Florida . The eventual results of this man's career bring this film to a close in an action packed yet very soulful way . The film , as written by Bima Stagg and directed by Bronwen Hughes captures the atmosphere of the era in South Africa , and gives us a realistic look at the plight of the Africans in the Apartheid , offering insights to both sides of the conflict like few others have in film . He coaxes fine performances from his large cast of actors and extras , making this film less an action thriller than a character study of the enigmatic Andre Stander . The true star of this film , a film that deserves far more attention than it has been given , is Tom Jane . Jane is a strong actor , able to take on language accents with the best of them , and able to make us understand the spectrum of personality in this fascinating character . There are many scenes in which he plays in full nudity , quite apropos to the story , but just an indication of his commitment to ' fleshing out ' of his role . He is an actor to watch , an actor unafraid of tough roles in contrast to the showy Hollywood star parts . Grady Harp
Giving Back the Gift : The World of the Prodigy	VITUS is a film from Switzerland that has garnered many accolades and nearly won an Oscar . And yes , it is that good ! Written by Fredi M . Murer , Peter Luisi , and Lukas B . Suter and directed by Murer , VITUS explores the life of a child genius , a lad who from the age of five is obviously gifted in that he can play Bach et al after only a few months lessons and is able to read books and understand concepts that make his stance in a regular kindergarten class untenable . But the film is less about the gifts of a child prodigy than it is a story of how a genius child longs for a normal childhood . It is in the telling of the story that the audience is privileged to discover the joys and trials in a child's view of being extraordinary . Vitus - played at age 6 by Fabrizio Borsani and at age 12 by Teo Gheorghiu - is referred to as a little Mozart by his parents Helen ( Julika Jenkins ) and Leo ( Urs Jucker ) , and by the family friends who are amazed at Vitus ' gift as a pianist . But as is often the case with gifted children , they are overprotected , not allowed to engage in the normal activities of being a kid . Vitus finds consolation in his grandfather ( a brilliant Bruno Ganz ) whose creative energy includes Vitus in his longing to fly and to build complex machines . While Vitus continues his love for the piano he also takes risks with his beloved grandfather . Vitus ' intelligence serves him well in analyzing the complexities of his father's job and his grandfather's role in that position , and it is his genius that leads the family in a direction no one thought possible . And of course with every story of an extraordinary young lad adapting to a puzzling world , there is also a love interest : Isabel at age 12 ( Kristina Lykowa ) is his fun-loving babysitter and at age 19 ( Tamara Scarpellini ) is the queen of his inexperienced heart and fill a void in Vitus ' life that otherwise would be empty . Fitting all of these subplots together is made magical by Vitus ' constant playing of classical music - a feat the young actor is capable of performing on his own ! The cast of this film is not only gifted but is also endearing . Bruno Ganz is a brilliant actor and he is matched by both of the young actors who play Vitus . The story is tender but avoids bathos . It simply is an uplifting , inspiring , entertaining film . A Must See ! Grady Harp
A Life Determining Conflict : Who Am I ?	The chromosomal abnormality of XXY has been labeled as Klinefelter's Syndrome , hermaphroditism , and Intersex . The ' conception ' defect results in a child with both male and female organs and when detected at birth usually results in a decision between physicians and parents to surgically alter the child to be one or the other phenotypic assignments - male or female . In this remarkably sensitive film based on a short story ' Cinismo ' by Sergio Bizzio and adapted for the screen by writer / director Lucía Puenzo , XXY becomes a story of understanding and acceptance of a diagnosis by both child and parents and the conflicts such gender variation can present . Alex ( Inés Efron ) is the XXY patient of the story , having been raised on the isolated coastline of Uruguay as a girl with the aid of supplemental hormones until age 15 , the age when her loving Argentinean parents Kraken ( Ricardo Darín ) and Suli ( Valeria Bertuccelli ) have decided she should have her ' offending member ' removed , allowing her to become a completely phenotypic female . Alex is deeply conflicted about her situation , refuses to take her medications and enjoys being ' one of the boys ' in secret . When Alex's parents invite their surgeon friend Ramiro ( Germán Palacios ) and his wife Erika ( Carolina Pelleritti ) to their home to advise them on the surgical alternatives , they are accompanied by their artistic son Alvaro ( Martín Piroyansky ) . There is an attraction between Alex and Alvaro and this ultimately results in a crisis that results in the coming of age and self-acceptance of both youngsters . Lucía Puenzo and her fine cast sensitively explore the interaction between parents and children and the coming to grips with choice of identity . This is yet another challenging and rewarding film from Argentina , one that stands alone as a fine movie , but one that also would be wise to add to the film libraries of high school and college students and of patient resource facilities who deal with problems of gender identity . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
In the Eyes and Minds of Little Children	LITTLE CHILDREN is one of the finest films of the past decade , a film that is intensely intelligent in concept , in writing , in acting , and in production values . It is rare to find a film so right in every aspect , dealing with aspects of living we'd all rather overlook while at the same time recognizing bits and pieces of ourselves and of those around us in manner that contributes to the frightening credibility of the story . Todd Field , so highly respected for his previous film ' In the Bedroom ' , directs the story from the novel by Tom Perrotta with whom he wrote the screenplay . It deals with the way children perceive the world , even when those children are of adult age . Thwarted Sarah ( Kate Winslet ) is bored with her life in a little town in Massachusetts where she lives a tepid life with her sexually absent husband Richard ( Gregg Edelman ) who prefers online porno to Sarah's needs . Sarah and her daughter Lucy spend the days at the park ( with bitchy nosy boring fellow housewives and their children ) and encounters the stay-at-home Dad , Brad ( Patrick Wilson ) , called the ' Prom King ' by the klatch . Sarah and Brad meet and a slow and smoldering ' affair ' begins ( Brad is married to the beautiful but distant Kathy ( Jennifer Connelly ) : they are each seeking to fill the needs that they perceive have eluded them . Meanwhile the town is set on its ear by the return of convicted Ronnie ( Jackie Earle Haley ) , released from jail for exposing himself to little children , and now living with his mother who is a strong mother and loves her son despite his past . The story is told to us by a narrator who unwinds the events like a channeler , showing how each of these disparate people come to realize that they are each acting with retarded , regressive emotional skills usually found only in children . And in the end of the story each has been forced to mature - or have they ? The entire cast is brilliant as is the quality of direction by Field . The musical score and the hauntingly beautiful cinematography add to the pulsating rhythm of this exploration of the psyches of 21st century adults . It may be a difficult movie to watch for some , but it is a triumph of cinematic art . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Quiet Power of Love	DEAR FRANKIE is one of those rare films that tell a story ( by Andrea Gibb ) with such minimal extraneous effects , keeping the line of the tale clear and unfettered by bathos , and results in an emotional experience for the viewer that creates a sense of empowerment and utter commitment . While much of this effect is due to the extraordinary talent of director Shona Auerbach ( who also is the film's magical cinematographer ! ) and by the glorious musical score by Alex Heffes , this film boasts one of the finest casts assembled for a small movie . Lizzie ( Emily Mortimer ) is an itinerant resident of various towns in Scotland , living with her 9 year old deaf ( ' he's a gifted lip reader ! ' ) son Frankie ( Jack McElhone ) and her cranky , endlessly smoking mother Nell ( Mary Riggans ) : they travel to short-time stays to escape discovery by Lizzie's abusive husband Davey ( Cal Macaninch ) . Out of love for Frankie , Lizzie has ' created ' a father who is a sailor and always at sea and corresponds with Frankie through letters Lizzie herself writes and mails . Though Lizzie feels a bit guilty at carrying on this beneficent deceit and Nell is angered at her daughter's game , Frankie is happy knowing his father is a brave seaman who writes to him constantly . One of Frankie's new schoolmates Ricky ( Sean Brown ) hears that Frankie's dad's ship is soon to anchor in their town and , supposing that Frankie doesn't have a real father , makes a wager with Frankie that his father won't show . Frankie accepts , tells his mother , and Lizzie panics , deciding to find a stranger to pose for pay as Frankie's dad for a day . Lizzie's friend Marie ( Sharon Small ) finds a man to fit the need for a stranger ' with no past , present , or future ' ( Gerard Butler ) and the stranger consents to aid Lizzie's plight . On the day of the ship's arrival , Lizzie arranges for the stranger to come to her flat to surprise Frankie . The initial meeting is quiet and phenomenally and subtlety touching . Frankie and his ' Da ' walk the streets , the seaside , the docks , attend Frankie's soccer game where Frankie is able to win the wager with Ricky , etc : slowly the stranger bonds with Frankie as sincerely as Frankie does with the stranger . Lizzie softens , allows the stranger one more day posing as Frankie's dad , and in one of the most poetic doorway encounters ever produced on film , heals her emotional instability with the stranger . The ending holds surprises and other luminous encounters , each of which allow us to see the transformation in each of the characters , all due to the power of love . No Hollywood ending here , just an understated bit of reality that pulls strongly on the heartstrings - and few viewers can resist the pull . The performance by Jack McElhone is astonishingly fine as is the work of Emily Mortimer and Gerard Butler . The entire cast is committed to the vision of the director and the result is simply unforgettable . Highly recommended for all audiences . Grady Harp
Brilliant , Insightful , Visually Stunning Shakespeare on Film	Of all of the thankfully increasing number of adaptations of the plays of William Shakespeare for the screen MERCHANT OF VENICE is surely the finest . MERCHANT is one of the more difficult of Shakespeare's play , the subject matter of Christians vs . Jews and the demands on the actors to create sympathetic characters from roles inherently unsympathetic , etc . But it has also some of the most eloquent writing with many extant usable quotes in Shakespeare's entire repertoire . For this viewer Michael Radford's adaptation resolves all of these problems and attributes and has created a story that flows sensibly and gracefully and intelligently all bathed in the stunningly atmospheric mists and molds of the vulnerable Serenissma - Venice . Antonio the Merchant ( Jeremy Irons ) has devoted his successful life to his business as a trader but is entering his later years in need of love , a desire that he finds gratified in the company of young noblemen , namely Bassanio ( Joseph Fiennes ) , a young man who loves Antonio but seeks his fortune and the hand of the infamously beautiful Portia ( a breathtaking Lynn Collins ) who waits in Belmont for the solver of the riddles of the three caskets her late father determined would elect the proper husband for his daughter . Bassanio is an extravagant youth and has squandered his money for pleasures . In order to court Portia he must have wealth and he turns to his benefactor for funds . Though Antonio's wealth is tied up in ships at sea , his love for Bassanio outweighs his judgment and he sends Bassanio out into the streets of Venice to borrow money using Antonio's good name . Shylock ( Al Pacino in his finest role to date ) , a Jewish usurer in the Venetian Jewish ghetto , is recently a widower whose only joy in life is his daughter Jessica ( Zuleikha Robinson ) who is secretly in love with a Christian Lorenzo ( Charlie Cox ) , and his money gathered from his fame in usury . Shylock has been humiliated in public by Antonio ( the film opens with a fine history of Venice and its social problems in 1576 and with Antonio spitting on Shylock in a memorable moment of facial acting by Pacino ) and when Bassanio approaches him for a loan of 3000 ducats in Antonio's name , Shylock's business mind and revengeful heart agree to the loan with the ominous bond that should the monies not be repaid with interest in the allotted time , then Antonio would give Shylock the famous pound of flesh . Antonio agrees to the bond and sends Bassanio off to court Portia , a journey that leads him to select the correct casket and win Portia's hand . But when Antonio's ships fail to return with treasure to Venice , the loan falls due and Shylock demands his pound of flesh . Wealthy and intelligent and well-motivated Portia disguises herself as a lawyer and adjudicates the case before the Duke of Venice . In this famous courtroom drama Portia delivers the Quality of Mercy speech and makes it ring true with the audience - except for poor Shylock who is defeated by the expertise of the ' law ' quoted by Portia . Antonio is saved , Shylock is destroyed : not only has he lost his revenge , he has also lost his daughter to Lorenzo and further humiliated by his portion of his fortune being ceded to Jessica and Lorenzo in a Christian union . The scenes that conclude the play involve reiteration of love and commitments between Bassanio and the revealed disguise of Portia , and Antonio . The cast is absolutely extraordinary ! Jeremy Irons , Joseph Fiennes , Al Pacino and Lynn Collins deliver their lines melodically , capturing Shakespeare's magic while holding the characters wholly credible and natural . Pacino's Shylock will be the gold standard for this tough role : he plumbs the humanity of this dark figure and brings him to a completely understandable and quite sympathetic man . The find of the film is the brilliance of Lynn Collins ' Portia . Here is an American actress ( born in 1979 in Texas ) who is declared by the director in the DVD commentary to be the finest Shakespearean actress on the stage today . She is Beautiful , subtle , sensitive , intelligent , and makes Portia ( Shakespeare's most intelligent female character ) come vividly to life . Cinematographer Benoît Delhomme visually explores Venice and finds more beauty and atmosphere than any other colleague . The audacious costumes ( most women's dresses recreate the definition of décolletage ! ) are period perfect , sumptuous creations by Sammy Sheldon and the hauntingly beautiful score is by Jocelyn Pook . But the kudos for all of these pale in the masterfully adapted and directed work by Michael Radford . This is simply on of the finest films in recent memory . A resounding Bravo ! Grady Harp
The Darker , Far More Interesting Side of Restoration England	THE LIBERTINE is one of the most atmospherically captured stories / biographies / tales on film . Based on the highly regarded play of the same name by Stephen Jeffreys who thankfully transferred his poetry to the screen in a brilliant screenplay , THE LIBERTINE glows with a sense of history , of social conscience , of the tawdry court of King Charles II in England , and relates the brief but scandalous yet ultimately poetic life of John Wilmot , the second Earl of Rochester ( 1647 - 1680 ) . Laurence Dunmore directs with a pace that is rapid and sure and a feeling for the story that is uncannily real . The film may bit a bit heavy for some viewers , but for those who cherish the English language written and spoken like Shakespearean poetry this film is a brilliant work . Johnny Depp as the Earl of Rochester delivers a dazzling portrayal complete with utter debauchery , incessant drinking , crude antics , razor sharp observations about life and the senses that marked the 33-year life of his character . From the open monologue about why he does not want to be liked to the closing recapitulation , Depp is immersed in this character , delivering a bravura performance bathed in Depp's gift to say as much with his eyes and his body language as with his delivery of lines . As King Charles II John Malkovich gives his finest role to date , stepping down from his original habitation in the role of John Wilmot he created on the Steppenwolf stage to offer a King riddled with problems of a kingdom at odds with history and rampant with social disease . Rosamund Pike is radiant as Wilmot's frustrated and neglected wife and Samantha Morton brings the actress Lizzie Barry to life as the only woman Wilmot seemed to love - or was it really the theater he loved , the venue where he could allow his true motivations to be experienced instead of being trapped in the body ruled by libido in which he lived , eventually dying of the Great Pox ( syphilis ) in a wretchedly distorted body yet able in his last days to support the monarchy in an unexpected , highly dramatic appearance before Parliament . The large and impressive supporting cast includes cameos by Paul Ritter , Stanley Townsend , Francesca Annis , Tom Hollander , Johnny Vegas , Richard Coyle , Hugh Sachs , Tom Burke , Rupert Friend , Billy Downs , Kelly Reilly , Trudi Jackson , and Claire Higgins . The costumes and scenery , lighting and camera work are some of the finest we've seen in period pieces . And the musical score by Michael Nyman is superb , worth owning as a CD if it becomes available . There is an added feature on the DVD about the making of the film and watching it , with all the energy and love from the entire crew . Seeing this kind of banter form a group committed to making a fine independent film only serves to whet the appetite to immediately watch this excellent movie again . HIGHLY RECOMMENDED ! Grady Harp
An Homage to Western History in a Moody Daguerreotype Style	THE ASSASSINATION OF JESSE JAMES BY THE COWARD ROBERT FORD is one of the finer films about the history of the Old West ' heroes ' such as Jesse James . It is difficult to describe the degree of high quality of the way in which this film has been created : the script ( adapted by Andrew Dominick from Ron Hansen's novel ) is as poetic as it is gritty and flows like a Shakespearean tragedy both in narration and in dialog ; the exceptionally fine cinematography by Roger Deakins captures the flavor of the times , shot in subtle lighting whether in darkly intimate interiors or on the vast plains at times heightened by snowlight , but always in the feeling of the quality of daguerreotypes ; the musical score by Nick Cave and Warren Ellis is strangely apropos without seeming to borrow from any previous source ; and the cast of fine actors play the film as a true ensemble work . Director Andrew Dominik has accomplished a masterpiece . The story begins subtly in the last year of the James gang at the final train robbery in 1881 . Jesse James ( Brad Pitt ) and his brother Frank ( Sam Shepard ) have gathered remnant criminals to bolster their decimated gang - Dick Liddel ( Paul Schneider ) , Ed Miller ( Garret Dillahunt ) , and Wood Hite ( Jeremy Renner ) among them . The Ford brothers want to ride with Jesse : 19-year old Robert ( Casey Affleck ) idolizes Jesse and his older brother Charley ( Sam Rockwell ) enjoys the attention of the gang's fame . Jesse James , at only age 34 , is at the end of his career , content to be at home with his wife Zee ( Mary Louise Parker ) and children . But Robert's adoration results in a chain of events that slowly dissembles the gang and results in Robert's obsessive revenge for Jesse's murder of one of the members fired by the promise of reward for the capture of Jesse James , dead or alive . History and the title of the film tell the plot so there are no surprises here . It is the inevitable unfolding of the drama and the tension of the interplay of the actors that drives the mood of the story . The film does not stop with the killing of Jesse James but instead follows the descent of the lives of Robert ( now wealthy and in love a stripper - Zooey Deschanel ) and the progressing insanity of Charley to an end that fades like the proverbial sunset on a time in our history we will never forget . Each of the actors is exceptional , and despite the glory of having big name stars associated with the cast , the effect is one of pure ensemble work . The 160 minute running time of the film never seems too long , so well timed is the pacing of the story and the pauses for understanding the interior aspects of each character's mind . This is a haunting film , unusually fine in every detail . It deserves , and demands , attention . Grady Harp
More then a whiff of stardust ! MAGIC !	Films that depend heavily on special effects as created by computer generated graphics have never been too interesting for this viewer - and that , of late , covers a lot of territory from the Harry Potter series through the continuous glut of sci-fi films , vampire tales , and apocalyptic epics , etc . But there is something very different about STARDUST that brings it into a realm of solid storytelling simply enhanced by well-done special effects , and that difference is in the story itself , an unabashed fairy tale populated with wonderful characters played by some of our finest actors . And it all begins with a wall ( according to the narrator , Ian McKellen ) that separates the real world from an enchanted place and through that wall runs a young lad who starts the frolic . Flash forward and the child of the runaway lad , Tristan ( a magnetically alive Charlie Cox ) , has groan to maturity and has fallen in love with the beautiful Victoria ( Sienna Miller ) who demands a star from Tristan to prove his love . The magic begins when that ' star ' falls from the sky in the form of Yvaine ( Claire Danes , radiant even without the halo that surrounds her ) . The foul witch Lamia ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) and her wicked sisters become aware and plan to cut out the heart of Yvaine in order to gain immortality . The little village is also under the stranglehold of the impending loss of their king ( Peter O'Toole ) and there is a struggle among the seven sons to ascend the throne : the seventh son Septimus ( Mark Strong ) defeats his now spirit brothers and sets off to gain the stone that Yvaine wears which will give him immortality . The on-the-run groups encounter a pirate , Captain Shakespeare ( Robert DeNiro in a splendid role ) , who captures lightening in a marvelous flying ship manned by a swarthy crew . Of course Tristan and Yvaine become his ' captives ' , only to discover that the fey closet queen captain is on their side against the forces of evil . As the film progresses Tristan and Yvaine gradually fall in love , negating their past histories , and the ending is another act of pure magic : evil succumbs to good in the best of fairytale ways . The cast is uniformly excellent , from the true star turns by Pfeiffer , DeNiro , Danes , and Cox to the secondary roles equally well cast . The special effects are beautiful and very much in keeping with the story instead of simply breeding monsters to emerge from the bowels of the earth to destroy civilization . Everyone involved , from the director Matthew Vaughn to the writers Jane Goldman with Vaughn ( and of course the creator of the novel Neil Gaiman ) to the cast , seem to keep tongue in cheek and appear to be having as much fun as we the audience . It is a light , exceptionally beautiful fantasy that is pure joy ! Grady Harp
A Coming of Age Tale for the Characters and the World	ALL THINGS FAIR ( Lust och fägring stor ) turned out to be brilliant Swedish writer / director Bo Widerberg's elegy : after a long history of successful and emotionally captivating films , this film was his last . Watching again some twelve years later gives an entirely different level of appreciation for Widerberg's work . This is a little jewel of a film explores human sexuality at the time of puberty and the enormous impact on the way relationships are viewed , while at the same time it presents a keen insight to the world at war and the equally monstrous side effects in myriad ways . Malmö , Sweden , 1943 . A highschool class of boys is discovering the mysteries of body changes and all-consuming effects puberty has one young teenage men . Outside the classroom World War II threatens and inside the classroom puberty threatens . 15 year old Stig ( Johan Widerberg ) is a handsome , curious lad from a poor family who discovers his first female attraction in the form of his new 37 year old teacher Viola ( Marika Lagercrantz ) , who , despite the impropriety of the situation added to the fact that she is married to a traveling salesman Kjell ( Tomas von Brömssen ) who spends his idle hours drinking and listening to classical music in the kitchen , returns the seductive dance and soon the two are in a physically involved affair . The beauty and fresh novelty of their feelings is captured in the most magical way with little dialog , many embarrassed glances , and significant risks that eventually include Kjell's discovery of their trysts . But as the two are discovered many changes occur : Stig's beloved soldier brother Sigge ( Björn Kjellman ) finally goes off to submarine warfare , Viola becomes less involved and senses the problem she has created , Stig falls under the spell of the tragic Kjell learning music and more from this pathetic man , and Stig finally must face the realities of more proper attraction to Lisbet ( Karin Huldt ) a girl his own age . The actors are superb , the settings are atmospheric , and the era of the 1940s Sweden is perfectly represented . Part of the joy of the film is the musical score that varies from a Handel aria during moments love making , to Brahms ' ' Ein Deutsches Requiem ' , to Mahler's 5th Symphony ' Adagietto ' , to Beethoven's ' Grosse Fugue . ' Widerberg makes it all work in a misty yet sensuous manner . It is a film to own and one to watch often . In Swedish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Poetics of Dying	François Ozon ( Water Drops on Burning Rocks , 8 Women , Swimming Pool , 5X2 ) is one of the most fascinatingly talented French directors on the scene today . His films have a simplicity , a direct approach to the mind and the heart , and an extreme respect for both his actors and his audience - factors that allow him a means for communication that is rare and proves he has few equals . In LE TEMPS QUI RESTE ( Time to Leave ) he addresses that earth-shattering moment of being informed that death is imminent and shows us how one character copes with that information and how it changes his remaining days and his history of relating to others . Romain ( Melvil Poupaud ) is a handsome and successful fashion photographer who is gay , has a lover Sasha ( Christian Sengewald ) , but is somewhat estranged from his family . For some reason he cannot relate to his pregnant sister Sophie ( Louise-Anne Hippeau ) despite his mother's ( Marie Rivière ) pleading and his father's ( Daniel Duval ) distance . During a fashion shoot Romain faints , is taken to the doctor ( Henri de Lorme ) who informs him he has metastatic cancer for which there is little hope ( except for chemotherapy and radiation therapy ) that he will live past a few months . Romain opts to go without treatment and begins to face his remaining life with silent gloom . After a very sensuous sexual encounter with Sasha ( Ozon holds nothing back in depicting this ! ) , Romain decides to quit his job , tells Sasha to leave , separates from his family , and visits his beloved grandmother Laura ( Jeanne Moreau , as exciting an actress as ever ! ) who shares her philosophy of living and dying and bonds even more closely with the grandson who mirrors her own life . Her sage wisdom is what grounds Romain . Romain , alone , travels about France , meets a sweet couple in a café - Jany ( Valeria Bruni Tedeschi ) and her husband Bruno ( Walter Pagano ) who are unable to have children - and after consideration Romain consents to comply with their request to impregnate Jany but only if Bruno is part of a ménage a trois in the process . The couple discovers Romain is dying after Jany becomes pregnant and Romain for the first time is able to show tenderness in his relationship with them . Somewhat changed in outlook Romain returns home , has a tender talk with his father who accepts his son's sexuality , attempts a reconciliation with Sasha unsuccessfully , and even responds to a letter from Sophie . His missions completed he travels to the ocean where the film ends in one of the most beautifully subtle , tender and genuinely realistic ways . In every way this film is satisfying . The actors are to the person excellent with Melvil Poupaud , Jeanne Moreau and Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi particularly outstanding . But the kudos go to writer / director Ozon who once again proves that his enthusiasm for his field of art is boundless . He is one of the more important figures in cinema today . A brilliant , quiet , immensely satisfying film . Grady Harp
A Darkly Brilliant Film from Nimród Antal	Ingredients : a bizarre story by Jim Adler and Nimród Antal , a setting completely confined to the compression world of the Budapest subway system , a group of excellent actors , a cinematographer that knows how to take advantage of this amazing setting and push it to its limits , a musical score that knows exactly how to underline the dark comedy , terror , and degenerate feeling of the film . Results : one of the finest films to come out of Central Europe directed with complete ' control ' by Nimród Antal ! KONTROLL is the name of those seedy men who patrol the metro guaranteeing that all passengers are ticketed . The dark order of these Kontrollers is headed by an even darker order of hierarchy whose problems are not limited to enforcement of the ticketing laws , but also preventing the ongoing problem of people jumping ( or being pushed . . . ) onto the tracks of the blindly deadly trains . The Kontrollers are divided into groups , each group covering a different sector of the metro . And as this metaphor for society plays out , each group is in competition with the other . One man garners our interest - Bulcsú ( Sándor Csányi ) a man weary of his job and the degradation associated with being a Kontroller , so caught up in his life that he never leaves the underground , sleeping and existing in the subterranean world of darkness and artificial light . The film follows his camaraderie with his ' group ' , his moments of enlightenment as he meets a pretty woman in a bear suit who just happens to be the daughter of the conductor of his assigned train , and his dangerous encounters with the leader of his ' rival group ' with whom he resorts to games of ' chicken ' in running through the dangerous tunnels as trains approach . Ultimately he becomes involved in the chase of a hooded spirit who is thought to be pushing innocent people to their death in front of oncoming trains . The story , while dark in every sense of the word , in Antal's facile hands mixes comedy with the drama in the way that Shakespeare provided comic relief for his most dramatic plays . While the real star of the film is clearly Sándor Csányi ( he has earned awards for his multifaceted portrayal of a man near madness ) , special mention is extended to Lajos Kovács , Zoltán Mucsi , and the entire ensemble . The film may be difficult for some to follow or to stay with as it meanders around in the dark , but the rewards are plentiful . This is one of those films whose metaphors visualize post mortem . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Wry British Comedy with Staying Power	NOTTING HILL was a breath of fresh air when it entered the theaters in 1999 . Written by Richard Curtis ( Four Weddings and a Funeral , Love Actually , The Girl in the Cafe - as well as the Bridget Jones scripts ) and directed by Roger Michell ( Persuasion , Changing Lanes , Enduring Love ) the story is a bit cockamamie but blossoms in the hands of the fine cast . Now with this Collector's Edition release it is available for us all to appreciate again . William ( Hugh Grant ) is an ordinary bloke who runs a Travel Book Store in Notting Hill , a man whose life is abruptly changed when an American actress Anna ( Julia Roberts ) enters his shop and his life . Bumbling William spills orange juice on celebrity-shy Anna and the two cross the street to William's flat , shared with the wildly mad but lovable Spike ( Rhys Ifans ) , and despite poor starts there begins a romance to test all romances . The manner in which William and Anna gradually find each other's vulnerabilities , including exposure to each other's lives - Anna with her celebrity entourage , William with his loony but oh so tender extended family ( Tim McInnerny , Gina McKee , Emma Chambers , and Hugh Bonneville ) - is the story of love overcoming hurdles . The secondary themes are lovely and beautifully played by this committed cast . For a springy , funny , tender , sweet British humor story , this one is hard to beat . Recommended . Grady Harp
The Impact of Love and the Ravages of Time	Writer / director André Téchiné ( Wild Reeds , My Favorite Season , Child of the Night , etc ) is able to take what appear to be simple emotional responses from complicated people and create an artwork that makes us think , become introspective , and be challenged and entertained all at the same time . His ability to draw intensely personal performances from his actors makes him a director with a full heart and startling technique . Essentially a love story , ' Les Temps qui changent ' ( ' Changing Times ' ) examines the lives of two people who fell in love in Paris 30 years ago , but parted . Antoine Lavau ( Gérard Depardieu ) has never married , so in love with his original flame Cécile ( Catherine Deneuve ) that he is obsessed with winning her back . Cécile has married a younger man , Natan ( Gilbert Melki ) who is a philandering physician , and lives in Tangiers where she hosts a dowdy talk show on the radio to help support the family . The couple has a bisexual son Sami ( Malik Zidi ) , who has returned to Tangiers with his drug-addled girlfriend Nadia ( Lubna Azabal ) and her son Saïd ( Idir Elomri ) much to his parent's concern , and takes up with his Moroccan lover Bilal ( Nadem Rachati ) . The family problems are further complicated by the fact that the Morroccan Nadia has a twin sister Aïcha ( also played by Lubna Azabal ) in Tangiers who is trying desperately to separate her life from her twin . Antoine , an architect of means , manages to land a job in Tangiers in hopes of rekindling his romance with Cécile , but Cécile has become a feminist and a bitter woman who resents her younger husband's infidelity and wants nothing to do with love , especially with the threat of depth of feeling that Antoine's new presence in her world presents . Antoine is persistent , meets Cécile's husband for medical reasons , and tries to woo Cécile in a close to stalking manner . Cécile's best friend Rachel ( Tanya Lopert ) convinces her that the only way to end the ardor of Antoine is to sleep with him , which she finally does with unexpected results . While the dance between Cécile and Antoine progresses , Natan meets Aïcha , Sami and Bilal arouse old emotions , and Nadia requires rehab for her out of control drug habits . How all of these coincidental occurrences coincide in an unexpected accident for Antoine is André Téchiné's magical way of sharing the power of love in the most adverse of circumstances . The ending is surprising and thought-provoking and eminently satisfying . Depardieu and Deneuve are luminous in their roles , adding yet other crowns to their careers of creating unforgettable , subtle characterizations on film . The remainder of the cast is also superb and the cinematography and music and editing and direction make this a feast for the eyes and the brain . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Lucrecia Martel : An Argentinean Filmmaker in the Vein of Buñuel and Almodóvar	Lucrecia Martel is one gifted artist . Her latest film , ' La Niña santa ' ( The Holy Girl ) was conceived , written and directed in a style that is a tough and puzzling of Luis Buñuel and Pedro Almodóvar : what you see on the screen is an enigmatic mixture of sexuality and spirituality , comedy and drama , polemics and parody , all woven together in a fascinatingly beautiful story that demands a lot from the audience . Martel is a talent of enormous potential and magnitude . In a somewhat seedy hotel somewhere in Argentina ( ? Buenos Aires , ? Rosario ) lives divorced party planner Helena ( a brilliant Mercedes Morán ) , her also divorced brother Freddy ( Alejandro Urdapilleta ) , and her teenage daughter Amalia ( María Alche ) . Amalia goes to parochial school with her friend Josefina ( Julieta Zylberberg ) and there they study Catholic life and the need for a ' vocation ' . Both girls are caught up in the throes of adolescent sexual awakening and committed spiritual development , with the loggerheads the two themes can produce . Josefina is having safe sex ( ie anal sex ) while demanding that her perpetrator not speak during the act . Amalia finds a different encounter . In the hotel is a convention of doctors , among them one Dr . Jano ( Carlos Belloso ) who , though married with children , has a secretive act of pressing himself against the buttocks of young girls ( an act of molestation ) , and while listening to a street Thermin player , he rubs against Amalia . Amalia becomes obsessed with the act and its possible permutations and finally decides that this man's redemption is her ' vocation ' . While she confides the incidents to Josefina , she otherwise keeps her secret . Meanwhile Helena is monitoring the doctors ' convention and meets Dr Jano , is attracted to him , and agrees to be an ' actress ' for a convention closing drama on doctor / patient relationships . Dr Jano is invited to Helena's room where of course he meets the stalking Amalia , and the tension of the multiple innuendos mounts . Dr Jano's family arrives at the convention dousing Helena's hopes for a assignation , but encouraging Amalia to corner Jano to reassure him he is a good man ( ie , she provides his redemption - her ' vocation ' commitment for her spiritual training ) . How this plays out in the end provides the food for post-film thought and is best left for the viewer to see . Martel's technique for drawing characters is unique and extraordinary , made all the stronger from her carefully selected cast of top-flight actors ( many of whom she has used in prior projects , ' La Cienega ' etc ) . Her camera designs ( fulfilled by cinematographer Félix Monti ) and her wondrous emphasis on sound ( including original music by Andres Gerzenson as well as repeated use of Thermin reproduction of music by Bach and Bizet ) give her film a special look that is becoming her trademark . Her executive producer is Pedro Almodóvar which should tell the audience a lot about the importance of this film . Lucrecia Martel creates difficult , highly intelligent , at times meandering , but always fascinating movies . She is a budding giant in the industry . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
' Love is all you really need '	Julie Taymor once again uses her considerable innovative magic to create a film that not only is mesmerizingly beautiful to watch , but also a ' semi-documentary ' about the world changes that occurred in the late 1960s and early 1970s as young people for the first time spoke out against the war in Vietnam , the death of Martin Luther King , and the senseless mayhem that extended from the battlefields of Vietnam to the streets of America , all set to the significant , timely music of the Beatles . It sounds like an impossible juxtaposition of themes and ideas , but in Taymor's hands it succeeds . Opening in Liverpool , England ( where the Beatles began their impact on music and thought ) we met Jude ( Jim Sturgess ) , a working class boy with the gifts of an artist who decides to set off on a sea journey to meet the father he has never known . Once in New York he meets Max ( Joe Anderson ) and Lucy ( Evan Rachel Wood ) who represent the wealthy class , but who both show roots of rebellion against the comfortable norm and an objection to the war that is festering like an abscess in the rice paddies of Vietnam . Jude meets his janitor father in a union that is anticlimactic , and in disappointment he falls in with Max , living the artists ' life in the Village with free-wheeling singer Sadie ( Dana Fuchs ) , her beau / guitarist JoJo ( Martin Luther ) and their newest tenant Prudence ( T . V . Carpio ) , an Asian girl trying to find her place in a confusing world . The group eventually bond with music and rebellion mixed with free love and the passion that they can make a difference , while around them racial crises are at a peak and the draft tags many of the young men ( including Max ) for the war they cannot condone . From all of this turmoil the story builds to a climax leading to some very touching scenes that convey the spirit of the times and the overriding importance of love and understanding in a world torn apart by political and racial crises . The cast is strong with each of the actors singing their own versions of various Beatle songs very well ( the division between singing and spoken dialect favors the former ) . But the real magic comes from Julie Taymor's mixture of hallucinogenic visuals , wonderfully choreographed crowd scenes , and ingenious movement from reality scenes displayed on the television to the reactive scenes of the world as viewed through the eyes of the youths and the lyrics of the songs . It is at once touching in its ability to recreate a particular period of history and wholly entertaining in the inventive use of music / dance / visual effects / drama . This film is important now and will only increase in stature as a document of that trouble but exciting time in the history of the world . We can only wonder why the youth of today are not responding to the Iraq War in a like manner , or , more uncomfortable to consider , why we now adults can't muster the same degree of distress about the myriad traumas that are still happening ' Across the Universe ' . Grady Harp
Possibilities : The Struggle Between Science and Faith	The timing of this film could not be more propitious as the courts struggle with Darwinism , Creationism , and separation of church and state , creating embittered conversations about fact versus faith . The fact that this film adaptation of an actual event results in a work of such touching tenderness is due to the imagination and artistry of writer Paul Harris Boardman and co-writer and director Scott Derrickson , as well as a fine cast of some of our best actors . This is not a horror flick : this is a thinking person's film that has the courage to discuss the possibilities of things on one can explain . Father Moore ( a brilliant Tom Wilkinson ) is a priest being tried for negligent homicide in the death of a young college student Emily Rose ( Jennifer Carpenter ) , a parishioner who sought his help feeling she was possessed by demons . The archdiocese hires pragmatic , agnostic lawyer Erin Bruner ( Laura Linney in another superlative role ) to defend Father Moore . The prosecuting attorney is strongly religious Methodist Ethan Thomas ( Campbell Scott in an atypical role well realized ) . The film is basically a courtroom drama : the polar sides being scientific ( medical ) facts versus spiritually based possibilities and the writing for both lawyers is bitingly incisive . Mixed into the testimony and preparation for the trial are flashbacks to the events leading up to Emily's death , including the gradual possession of Emily's body by six demons and her reaction to the possession , and the exorcism performed by Father Moore . The priest does not fear jail or loss of clerical collar : his only concern is that he be able to tell Emily's shared story , a story that raises more questions in everybody's minds than providing legal results of the trial . Laura Linney is extraordinary as the agnostic hardened lawyer whose very being is shaken by the case which she tries . The nuances of her character are so well conveyed that we come to understand the un-understandable as she sees it . Likewise Tom Wilkinson and Campbell Scott shine , as do all of the minor characters . The cinematography of Tom Stern is among the most artful of the year and the musical score by Christopher Young is intensely atmospheric . This is not yet another in the endless line of horror flicks , though the Para scientific manifestations of demon possession are graphically enacted ( not my cup of tea but necessary for the story ) . This is a much more important story than that and one that would be helpful in aiding understanding if both agnostics / pragmatists and spiritual people watched and listened . Grady Harp
Recipe for Lasting Success	Take an ' idea ' by Bob Balaban and Robert Altman , transform that idea into a screenplay by Julian Fellowes , place Robert Altman in the director's chair , and gather many of the finest actors in England ( and the USA ) , photograph it with Andrew Dunn as cinematographer , and assign the musical score to Patrick Doyle and presto ! - out comes a bubbling movie that entertains on every level and makes a lot of statements about class distinction and other prejudices as well . GOSFORD PARK is a gem of a film and only grows better with repeated viewings . Gosford Park is the estate owned by grumpy William McCordle ( Michael Gambon ) , his bored wife Sylvia ( Kristen Scott Thomas ) , his frumpy daughter Isobel ( Camilla Rutherford ) , and served by a staff of servants who include the very in control Mrs . Wilson ( Helen Mirren ) , the butler Jennings ( Alan Bates ) , and the head of the kitchen Mrs . Croft ( Eileen Atkins ) . A weekend hunting party is underway and as the guests arrive the dichotomy between the wealthy and the serving class is emphasized . Among the odd assortment of guests ( each with a pack of secrets and prejudices ) are Maggie Smith , Tom Hollander , Charles Dance , Bob Balaban , Jeremy Northam , James Wilby , and their valets and servants Clive Owen , Kelly Macdonald , Ryan Phillippe , etc . The servants are incorporated into the staff rooms by the strange Emily Watson , Derek Jacobi , Jeremy Swift et al . The arrival evening drops a few hints of problems afoot both among the guests and among the servants . The hunting party is scarred by a minor accident , but the real problem occurs at the dinner following the hunting party - a time when some of the occult problems become more obvious and culminate in the murder of the vile William McCordle . The police are called and Inspector Thompson ( Stephen Fry ) uncovers some strange evidence that leads to not only the events of the murder but also unveils many of the secrets of both guests and servants . There is a surprise ending that somehow makes all of the characters seem more human than their artificial roles they have assumed . This is a banquet of fine acting and ensemble work and adds such treasures as a series of songs performed by Jeremy Northam with great style as well as unexpected cameos by a large number of lesser known actors . It is a fine mystery , Altman style , and is as frothy and refreshing as fine champagne ! Grady Harp
Bravura Acting in a Bristling Suspense Thriller with Style	Sometimes movies can be parceled into good points and bad points : the story may be weak , the acting may be pedestrian , the camera work may be so over the top that the film is lost , the editing may cry for clarity - or the opposites can occur in one or two of these categories for critique . Not so in the case if THE INTERPRETER . This film is a model of integrity and incisive execution of a fine script into an intelligent , highly suspenseful foray into the world of international politics as ' overseen ' by the United Nations . In the pre-title opening scenes we are plunged into the imaginary African country of Motobo and witness a tense and grisly episode that for once serves as the appetizer for the story that is to follow . Watch is very carefully and you may be able to get close to the spark that motivates the action and message of the film . Tobin Keller ( Sean Penn ) is a governmental agent in charge of protecting visiting dignitaries , but as he enters the story he is an emotionally broken man , drinking heavily , an in mourning for a wife that has once again left him for another only to end up dead in a car accident : his outlook on life is bleak but he is able to maintain his brilliance in his job . His job partner Dot Woods ( Catherine Keener ) is able to keep him together and lighten the atmosphere with some very funny if unintentionally comic asides . The two are assigned to the upcoming UN visit by Zuwanie ( Earl Cameron ) , the president of Motobo , who plans to address the United Nations Assembly in defense of his controversial position . Incidentally observed high above the delegates during a UN session is Silvia Broome ( Nicole Kidman ) , an interpreter for the UN who is one of the few who speaks Ku , the language of Motobo ( she is from that small country riddled with political intrigue and strife , having been involved in the peoples ' struggle for fair government until an incident altered her perception and encouraged her to leave her country and seek the higher moral issues of the UN as a voice ) . After an evacuation of the UN building on a routine day , she returns to her soundproof interpreters ' booth to retrieve her bag and while there she overhears a whispered statement in Ku that sets the suspenseful story into play . Frightened she has been observed in the dark of after-hours at the UN , she eventually tells the authorities about the whispered message that likely indicates an assassination threat to Zuwanie . Keller and Woods question her , doubt her story as a hoax , begin to suspect her as a perpetrator and eventually believe her and are assigned to protect her . Posted in the apartment across the street from Silvia's apartment , Keller is slowly drawn into the credibility of the intrigue and spends every moment of his broken life guarding Silvia . Tension mounts as Zuwanie's arrival approaches and amidst all of the preparation , clues are dropped , plots and manhunts abound , and eventually played out against this background of terror Sylvia and Keller mutually reveal their inner demons and bond . The story seers to a breathtaking conclusion that ties the ending to the beginning in a climatic scene . The ending for once addresses not only this story but makes a powerful statement about the multiple countries around the globe that are involved in heinous genocide . And on top of this fine story is the crowning achievement of the extraordinary acting skills of Nicole Kidman and Sean Penn . Their spectrums of finessed qualities of character creation are as fine as any actor on film today . Whether in individual scenes or in the electrifying interchanges together , these two consummate actors redefine the gold standard of acting . They are amazingly fine . Catherine Keener as the sole comic relief in this tense story is the pinnacle of understatement . The entire supporting cast from bit part to major / minor role is superb . Sidney Pollack's direction keeps the story focused and propelled in the way of the masters of the genre ( one aside : why must he always write himself into the screen action of his films ? Megalomania ? ) . The musical score by James Newton Howard is riveting as are the cinematography of Darius Khondji and the precise and story-driven editing of William Steinkamp . In all this is a successful film from every vantage and will doubtless go down as one of the finest films of the year and of the genre . Highly recommended .
An Extraordinary Mastering of a Challenge	Thom Harp is a major talent . Not only did he ( and his excellent crew ) meet the demanding standards of this entry into Seattle International Film Festival's Fly Film-making Challenge 2005 , Harp surpassed this test and created a short film that is better realized than many a full length feature film on the big screens at present . Just as short stories are more tough to pull off than novels , short films carry the same burden - create a storyline that is immediately involving and interesting , keep an eye on the arc of the tale , and finish it off with enough aplomb to catch the viewer by happy surprise . Kate ( a very talented and camera-loved Jessica Skerritt ) is at wit's end to secure a relationship with her off-to-college boyfriend and with the help of her ' co-horts ' she decides to drive to the big city to be with him . Problem : Kate can't drive ! Having failed her driving test X4 , she engages a Safe-T Drivers instructor Mr . Meeker ( a wonderfully subtle Tony Doupé ) and proceeds to chatter away with the near-terrorized Meeker to the point of mishap . Yet despite her roller-coaster test drive , Kate is so committed to her obsession that Meeker assures her she WILL succeed . . . And so comes the resolution of the outing - with a huge dose of irony , comedy , and timing that makes this little film sparkle . Co-written with Mike Standish , Harp achieves sharply drawn characters in a very limited time , characters about whom we care and whose comments , especially from minor characters Doug ( Vincent Scott ) and Kurt ( Kaelon Horst ) , linger in that corner of the brain that traps good humor for later digestion . His direction is imaginative , creative , and solid , drawing a true ensemble result from his winning cast . A Terrific Aperitif - leaving us with hopes for a full-fledged feature !
Childhood Dreams and Fantasies / Adult Recriminations and Realities	' Koenig der Diebe ' ( ' King of Thieves ' ) is a powerful indictment dealing with child slavery in the German marketplace . The subject is a tough one to watch but the writing , direction , acting , scenic design , and production of this brilliant film is so incredibly fine that is commands attention . The story is a contemporary one , opening in The Ukraine where 10-year old Barbu ( Iakov Kultiasov ) and his 13-year old sister Mimma ( Julia Khanverdieva ) are staging a simple but really fine circus in the dusty little town center . Obviously living in fantasy of circus life , they greet the scrubby but congenial Caruso ( Lazar Ristovski ) as he rides into town tossing candy to the kids . Caruso is an ex-circus owner who is now in the trade of child trafficking and when he sees the buoyant and irresistible Barbu he decides to ' buy ' him from the father . Barbu is thrilled but insists Mimma go with him to ' join the big circus ' in Berlin : the father consents ( accepting money for the purchase of his children ) and the three drive off to their new destinies . Barbu and Caruso bond despite the language barrier - Caruso speaks German , Barbu speaks Russian , but they manage to communicate on certain levels . At the Ukrainian / Slovakian border Caruso is stopped and the children he has gathered disperse ( Caruso promises to meet Barbu in Berlin and bring Mimma with him ) . Barbu sets out across country and eventually arrives in Berlin , full of hopes and fantasies ( ' I am Barbu , King of the Circus ' ) , only to discover through his new found friend , Albanian boy Marcel ( Oktay Ozdemir ) , that the ' circus ' Caruso runs has no audience , but instead is a ' school ' for teaching children how to steal to support him . Caruso lives in a circus tent with a shaved-headed woman Julie ( Katharina Thalbach ) who is addicted to drugs administered by Caruso to relieve her constant pain ( we learn that her pain comes from a trapeze act accident when Caruso failed to catch her resulting in a traumatic fall ) . Also in the ' circus ' are two thugs who police the activities of the boys ' thefts . The ever-optimistic Barbu still imagines he will be the king of the circus but is appalled as he gradually discovers the realities of the life of thievery , crime , and most of all that Mimma has been sold into prostitution to a loathsome cruel pimp Kardinal ( Paulus Manker ) . This discovery pushes Barbu to acts of theft to gain money to buy back his sister , but the obstacles he meets along the way emphasize the incredible brutality and cruelty of Caruso and his cohorts . The manner in which the film ends is best left to the viewer to discover , but it is one that will make an indelible imprint on the psyche and heart of those fortunate enough to see this work of art . Ivan Fila , born in Prague , Czechoslovakia , is a gifted writer and director . Despite the heart wrenching story matter , he allows us to see all sides of the child trafficking business - including the bonding among the children and the transient feelings of power and success as they learn ' new trade ' . The actors in this drama are absolutely extraordinary : few child actors can match the performance of Iakov Kultiasov as Barbu , and this is his first experience at acting ! The set decoration , lighting , costumes , scenery , cinematography , and musical score by Michael Kocab are as atmospheric as anything ever filmed ! KING OF THIEVES is an amazingly fine film , but audiences should be warned that it has moments of violence that are difficult to watch . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Practicalities of Desperation	IRINA PALM may be a film too many people will overlook , thinking it either empty headed or pornographic . But word of mouth should correct those misconceptions , as this little quiet film is a tender story of an aging woman's sacrifices and healthy outlook in the face of adversity . IRINA PALM is that happy marriage of comedy and drama , a heartwarming tale that leaves the viewer with both a smile and a tear . Written by Director Sam Garbarski with Martin Herron and Phillipe Blasband , IRINA PALM is the story of a widowed grandmother Maggie ( Marianne Faithful in a luminous performance ) whose young grandson Ollie ( Corey Burke ) is gravely ill . Maggie's son Tom ( Kevin Bishop ) and daughter-in-law Sarah ( Siobhan Hewlett ) cannot afford the transfer from England to Australia where the young lad could undergo curative treatment . Maggie decides she must find a job - a daunting task for an older woman with no particular job training - to make the treatment affordable . After numerous rejections from employment agencies , she spies a Sex Shop advertising for ' hostesses ' . Thinking that designation means serving tea , etc , she enters the shady establishment and is interviewed by the owner Miki ( Miki Manojlovic ) , a gentle man who gently describes the type of employment : Maggie would sit in a room and provide simple masturbation through a glory hole for anonymous clients . At first shocked by the job description , she in desperation investigates the business with the help of her soon to be best friend Luisa ( Dorka Gryllus ) , and accepts the job with reservations . To her surprise ( and the surprise of Miki and Luisa ) Maggie gains a loyal following of customers , so much so that she is given the name ' Irina Palm ' . Keeping her employment a secret from everyone , she is the brunt of gossip from her old cronies and when she gives the money from her job to her son Tom without revealing its source , she causes a riff in the family . Maggie is courted by other sex shop owners who offer higher pay , but she remains faithful to Miki who advanced her the money for Ollie's trip to Australia . Tom stalks his mother to her workplace , discovers the source of her income , and explodes with anger and embarrassment that his mother would stoop to such depths . But Maggie's role as Irina Palm has given her confidence and also opened her heart not only to her grandson's future but to her own happiness as well . The ending may be expected by some , but will warm the hearts of everyone . There are many moments of humor - Maggie's learning her trade , her ultimate confession to her cronies as to her occupation , etc - and this lightness makes the dramatic message more powerful . Faithful is extraordinarily fine in this difficult role , but the entire cast is sensitively responsive to the screenplay and to director Garbarski's vision . This is a film to cherish . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Fitting Crown to a Phenomenal Career : Callas Lives . . . Almost	CALLAS FOREVER is a beautifully written , tenderly directed and acted tribute to the immortal Maria Callas by a man who knew her as well as anyone - Franco Zeffirelli . The fantasy of placing Callas on film for posterity in the last year of her life , the year she died of heart failure , when her voice was gone but her artistry remained is the means by which Zeffirelli memorializes the Diva and in every way he succeeds . The year is 1977 and Maria Callas ( Fanny Ardant ) is in seclusion in her Paris apartment , grieving over 1 ) her beloved Aristotle Onassis who left her for Jacqueline Kennedy and then died and 2 ) her disastrous farewell concert in Japan which ended her magnificent career with a flop . No longer able to sing she lives in the past , listing to her old recordings and taking pills . Only her constant maid Bruna ( Anna Lelio ) is allowed to comfort her with occasional visits from her warm-hearted publicist Sarah Keller ( Joan Plowright ) . In Paris for the promotion of a punk group Bad Dreams is Larry Kelley ( Jeremy Irons ) who has just met and bedded a young artist Michael ( Jay Rodan ) : Kelley had been Callas ' agent in her heyday and Michael has been creating paintings inspired by her recordings . Seeing Michael's obsession over Callas whom he has never seen perform forces Kelley to visit Callas , their devotion to each other is ' rekindled ' and Kelley proposes a film version of Callas not only to bring her out of her depression but to capitalize on the fact that present and future generations should have a filmed account of the penultimate opera singer of the 20th century . Callas is recalcitrant at first , not wanting to produce a fraudulent film made using her old recordings dubbed onto the sound track of a current staging , but she finally resolves her hesitancy by granting the filming of ' Carmen ' , a role she recorded but never played on the stage . Thus the project is launched and Callas is revitalized and happy again , being satisfied with the miracle of technology that allows her to invest her energies in the acting of Carmen while consenting to lip-synch to her old recordings . She even has a say in the casting of the other roles , especially Don Jose - Marco ( a very hunky Gabriel Garko , a former model and Mr . Italy ! ) . She retains her temper tantrums and demands for perfection that hallmarked her real career , doing her own dancing , having a say about costumes , etc . The film is eventually finished and the result is magnificent . There is even some intrigue when Marco shows more than a little interest in her ( a hint of the Strauss Marshallin / Octavian encounter ) . But alas at the end of the film Callas is forced to admit that her youth cannot be regained and decides the film is a ' fraudulent work ' is not compatible with her life's devotion to truth in music . She asks Kelley to destroy it . How these two come to grips with their individual lives ( Kelley's Michael has left him and he is once again as alone as Callas ) is finessed by one of the most tender endings on film . Fanny Ardant is a miracle as Callas : she inhabits her physically , understands Callas ' facial features as she lip-synchs her operas , and seems to be a reincarnation of the Diva . Jeremy Irons gives one of the finest performances of his rich career as the aging gay agent and Joan Plowright adds just the right amount of lightness and grace as Sarah Keller - wise , acerbic , yet supportive of both Callas and Kelley . The scenes of Paris are correctly nostalgic : the sets for ' Carmen ' by Carlo Centolavigna create a gold standard for all future true productions of ' Carmen ' . The supporting cast is uniformly excellent . Zeffirelli has succeeded in giving us a memorial to Maria Callas and for that the opera world will be forever grateful . The passages of the many arias used in this film are among the finest versions Callas recorded . Everything about this work is brilliant and it deserves the widest audience possible . Grady Harp
A Quietly Brilliant Little Film About Coping and Other Atrocities of Living	Michael Burke both wrote and directed this first class , finely wrought exploration of coming of age in the emotional battlefield of rural bigotry . Rarely has so much been said so successfully with so little dialogue . Burke is clearly a gifted filmmaker about whom we should be hearing much ! The film opens with what appears to be an idyllic country road over which a person on an old bicycle is delivering eggs . As the credits are ending we see the person on the bicycle walk up a steep incline then fall to the ground . As the actual film opens we discover that this person was the mother of Duncan ( Emile Hirsch in a career making performance ) , a fourteen year old young lad who is left mourning with his distant father Edgar ( Richard Jenkins ) . Unable to wholly cope with the loss of his mother , Duncan holds closely to her remnants - a chicken as a pet who his mother taught him could be calmed by putting the chicken's head in Duncan's mouth , an old fake fur coat he wears to bed , and some kitchen skills he learned at her side . Edgar is resentful that Duncan isn't more helpful on their small farm and is shaken by observing Duncan's means of mourning his mother . Duncan is a loner , hungry for relating , and encounters neighboring Perry ( Tom Guiry , in another gripping performance ) , a seemingly macho kid who apparently is beaten ( if not more ) by his low-class father . The two bond , slowly , out of mutual needs . Perry defends Duncan's ridiculing by the local rowdy kids and even encourages Duncan to join the drinking bouts with the group . Yet Duncan remains an outsider , longing to be included , and when certain events occur with Perry ( Perry urges Duncan to put on his mother's wedding dress in the secrecy of the barn and then progresses to having Duncan perform sexual acts with him , declaring all the while that he , Perry , is not gay . . . ) only to have the incident be partially discovered by Duncan's father . At odds with what to do with his strange acting son , Edgar forces Duncan to work at meaningless jobs on the farm , help with the haying , and makes Duncan observe the burning of the mother's clothes and belongings . Duncan seeks Perry's consolation after the above events and despite Perry's homophobic comments , Duncan manages to gain the kiss from Perry that he so desires as a resurrection of affection desperately missing in his life . Perry is further abused by his own father and participates to a degree in an incident of harassment by the local rowdies of Duncan and his pet chicken . It is the method in which this final confrontation ends that speaks so strongly about Duncan's needs and Perry's buried feelings . After the confrontation Duncan rides his bicycle home to where his father finally perceives the agony chewing Duncan's soul and the movie ends in one of the most life affirming moments ever captured on film . The photography is magnificent , the musical score is spare and enhancing , and the acting on the part of every member of this well directed cast is superb . This is a film that deserves wide audience exposure , and especially for those young people who are struggling with their sexuality in the ugly isolation surrounding the lives of the main characters of this excellent film . Grady Harp , March 05
A Stunning , Compelling Film on Every Level	Just when we think we have read about or seen all of the stories there are to tell about courageous heroes / heroines who sacrificed much for the sake of many during World War II , along comes BLACK BOOK ( ZWARTBOEK ) with another dramatic ' biography ' of a significant figure . Director Paul Verhoeven ( Basic Instinct , Spetters , Total Recall ) is a much admired Dutch artist who is able to draw his audience into another world so real that it literally feels as though we are part of the process . And that is precisely why this film works so well : the audience as a participant drives home the film's message that war changes people , that from one day to the next it is impossible to distinguish the ' bad ' from the ' good ' , the ' enemy ' from the ' friend ' . Rachel Stein ( the enormously gifted Carice van Houten ) was a Jewish Dutch born cabaret singer in Berlin until the war broke out , at which time she returned to Holland to hide during the Jewish Solution . A series of incidents in 1944 destroy her hiding place and thwart her attempts to join her family to escape the Nazis . She is left to fend by herself until she bonds with a group from the Dutch Resistance . Gaining their confidence she is asked to masquerade as a German singer , dye all of her body hair blond , enter Germany as the consort of a doctor Hans Akkerman ( Thom Hoffman ) and infiltrate the highest elements of the Nazi regime , namely to become the mistress of Gestapo head Ludwig Müntze ( Sebastian Koch ) changing her name to Ellis de Vries . She stays in contact with the Resistance , places microphones in strategic positions , and with her friend Ronnie ( Halina Reijn ) becomes a Nazi party girl , singing at events while assisting her colleagues underground . The story is complex with many surprises as to who is with the Nazis and who is with the Resistance , and the story is so well told that we the audience are left guessing identities much the same as the characters . Paul Verhoeven wrote the screenplay with Gerard Soeteman and Verhoeven's dedication to his story is always present . There is a considerable violence and some sections that may offend viewers , but try to tell a true war story without including such aspects ! The cast is brilliant , especially the multi-talented Carice van Houten , easily one of the finest actresses on the screen today . The entire cast is includes such gifted actors as Waldemar Kobus , Derek de Lint , Christian Berkel , Dolf de Vries , Michiel Huisman and Ronald Armbrust . The cinematography by Karl Walter Lindenlaub recreates not only The Hague , Holland , and Germany but also a kibbutz in Israel with solid veracity . Anne Dudley has created a musical score that includes songs from the period ( sung beautifully by Carice van Houten ) , and atmospheric scoring for the tender scenes as well as the many tense scenes . Released in Europe in 2006 , it is not clear as to whether this film will be eligible for the Oscars this year . If it is it should win . It is one of the finest films this reviewer has seen in a long time . In Dutch , German , Hebrew , and English with subtitles . Highly Recommended ! Grady Harp
The Keys to the House Open the Heart	LE CHIAVI DI CASA ( THE KEYS TO THE HOUSE ) is a brave , humble , simple , eloquent work of art . Director and writer ( with Sandro Petraglia ) Gianni Amelio has the courage to address a subject that is difficult for most viewers and has created one of the more tender love stories on film . Aided by an incomparably fine cast and a fine cinematographer ( Luca Bigazzi ) and composer ( Franco Piersanti ) , he has found a means to touch everyone with a story that , BECAUSE of its subject matter , gives more insight into the human condition than almost any other film to date . Amelio begins his story quietly and progresses slowly , allowing the viewer to cope with the realities of the tale in a manner of comfort . In the opening scene Gianni ( Kim Rossi Stuart ) is meeting with Alberto ( Pierfrancesco Favino ) in a frank discussion about the status of Paolo ( Andrea Rossi ) , the son of Gianni whom he has never seen , the child being born as his girlfriend dies in childbirth . Alberto and his wife have been caring for Paolo for fifteen years , loving him , admiring him , working with the fact that Paolo has cerebral palsy with he concomitant handicaps of distorted limbs but with a mind and heart completely normal . Paolo's doctor has informed Alberto that perhaps having Paolo connect with his birth father may aid his progress in walking normally and increasing his self-care . So at this meeting Alberto , regrettably , turns Paolo over to the hesitant Gianni , an appliances worker who is now married and has a new child . Gianni and Paolo meet for the first time , board a train to Berlin for the best Children's Orthopedic Hospital available . Very gradually the two begin to learn about each other ; Paolo wants to prove he is self-reliant , Gianni wants to prove he is an adequate caregiver . In Berlin Gianni observes Paolo's intensive physical training , finding the boy's strengths and qualities and need for love . While Paolo is hospitalized Gianni meets Nicole ( the brilliant Charlotte Rampling ) whose 20-year-old daughter Nadine ( Alla Faerovich ) is severely physically challenged : Nicole has devoted her life to being at the bedside of Nadine and shares with Gianni the truths about parenting challenged children . Their conversations are sage and realistic and enormously touching . Gianni and Paolo begin to bond , to share their lives , to explain the fifteen year gap in their relationship , and Gianni agrees to fulfill Paolo's dream of going to Norway to meet Paolo's pen pal love Kristine . Along this ' road trip ' the two ultimately face the idiosyncrasies life has offered each , they grow from each other and . . . . well , the ending is far too beautifully formed to spoil . Obviously the easy way to make this film would have been to hire actors to ' mimic ' challenged characters , but it is to Amelio's credit and for our good fortune that he has cast unknown physically challenged youths in the pivotal roles . Andrea Rossi as Paolo is a revelation : he gives the kind of performance that is at once honest and yet delicately nuanced . Both Kip Rossi Stuart and Charlotte Rampling are extraordinary , each playing their roles without a trace of bathos . This film does not stab for emotional response ; it simply allows connection with a story about the importance of human love and compassion and family commitment . I cannot recommend a film more highly . Grady Harp
The Little Stories : Aftershocks	Danny Leiner has provided us with a quiet little collection of stories written by first-time writer Sam Catlin in the form of overlapping lives of people one year from the trauma of . Though billed as a comedy , the ' comedy ' comes more from the nuances of reality that has settled into Manhattan and the world since that treacherous event . Yes , there are humorous moments in these collected tales , but there is always a dark side that predominates , largely due to not only to the fine script and directing , but also to an amazingly gifted cast of ensemble actors . September 2002 , Manhattan , and we gradually meet a psychiatrist ( Tony Shalhoub ) as he ' interrogates ' a sugar addicted man with internalized anger issues ( Jim Gaffigan ) ; two fragilely connected parents ( Judy Greer and Tom McCarthy ) coping with their obese sociopathic young son ; the elderly Judie ( Olympia Dukakis ) coping with her boring and distant husband ; two competing pastry chefs ( Maggie Gyllenhaal and Edie Falco ) whose vapid lives are focused on creating cakes for silly events ; and two Indian bodyguards ( Naseeruddin Shah and Sharat Saxena ) who spend their days protecting officials while dealing with home front crises . How these five stories develop and overlap in the early days of September demonstrate how ordinary people have been coping with the incomprehensible act of a year ago . As the first year anniversary of that event arrives , each of the five stories reaches its own peak with its individual climaxes of action and the subtlety in which each ordinary tale plays out is mesmerizing . There are no major insights here , no noisy confrontations with the seed act that occurred , just life among survivors doing what they have done to make it through another year . Every role is played with aplomb by this fine cast of actors - each knowing just when to let the heart show and the courage work itself out . It is a gentle film that allows us to reflect and think about how we all have handled the unimaginable . Highly recommended .
An Old Fashioned Thriller with a New Fashioned Approach	John le Carré's novel THE CONSTANT GARDENER is one of his finer suspense / spy / thriller stories and screenwriter Jeffrey Caine kept the story and the technique of telling it intact in this successful film . Director Fernando Meirelles was an excellent choice for director , bringing a fresh new look to Hollywood actions movies , a look that involves camera work , atmosphere , mirrors to society , and use of actors and vistas of Africa to drive the message behind this story home . Proper High Commissioner Justin Quayle ( Ralph Fiennes ) serves his British government with the same diligence with which he tends his garden of potted plants . He is a constant diplomat and a constant gardener , never veering from his mission - until he meets mouthy smart rebellious Tessa ( Rachel Weisz ) in a classroom where he has literally ' read ' a lecture for an absentee professor . Her rage at the Establishment is calmed by Justin's quiet manner and in no time they have bedded , courted and are on their way to an assignment in Kenya . Once in Africa Tessa's forthright manner embarrasses everyone connected with government , but the couple are happy and trusting , and the now - pregnant Tessa discovers a secret plot for the unmonitored testing of an anti-tuberculosis drug ( a threat of a mutant form of TB that will annihilate much of the world's population is the justification ) on unknowing people of Kenya . Tessa rails against the concept of human guinea pigs , finds a colleague in a Kenyan doctor Arnold ( Hubert Koundé ) and together they , undercover , investigate the connection between the drug company manufacturing the drug and the governments of England and Kenya . While proper Justin is keeping the peace with his confrères Sandy ( Danny Huston ) and Sir Bernard Pellegrin ( Bill Nighy ) and nurturing Tessa after they lose their pregnancy . Tessa's rage is inflamed and while off on an assignment with Arnold she is brutally murdered ( and Arnold is likewise brutally tortured and crucified ) . Justin's world is shaken and his constancy is reversed in taking up where Tessa left off - working to uncover the truth about the scandalous coups . From here the story speeds along with twists and turns and the ending is unexpected . Meirelles captures both the suffocating stifle of British politics and the breathtaking majesty and poverty of Kenya with uncanny skill . His lighting is all natural and the camera work is basically hand held , intensifying the credibility of the story of a few people against enormous odds - medically , socially , and in the seething corruption of the governments . He balances the tension by the use of flashbacks to moments when Justin and Tessa were courting and making love and living and laughing , and these non-linear techniques offer breathing space for the story's propulsive drive . The actors are superb : this is his finest role for Fiennes in years and for once Weisz is given a character into whom she can breathe all of her expertise as an actress . Yes , there are flaws in the story and some holes of information that could use patching , but in the final result this is a movie of power , of message , and of technical finesse that makes it one of the finer of the year . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp , January 06
Some Treasures Refuse to Tarnish	ON GOLDEN POND may be twenty-five years old but the film is of such high quality that it has retained the luminous quality that garnered so many awards when released . It not only has a fine script adapted by the playwright Ernest Thompson from his own play , but it benefits from the sensitive direction by Mark Rydell and a cast of superb actors . The story is rather simple : Ethel ( Katherine Hepburn ) and Norman ( Henry Fonda ) Thayer have returned to their summer home beside Golden Pond and while they are elderly , their lives are still significant . They receive a rare visit from their distant daughter Chelsea ( Jane Fonda ) who stops by with her current boyfriend Bill ( Dabney Coleman ) to drop off Bill's ruffian teenage son Billy ( Doug McKeon ) to reluctantly stay with them while Chelsea and Bill are off to Europe . It is a battle of age differences : Billy sees no future in starting a relationship with the old turkeys and Norman is resentful at the youth's attitude ( Ethel is the wise mediator ) . Slowly but surely the three bond , age differences diminish as negatives and Billy sees Norman as a wise teacher he has never had . Chelsea returns at summer's end with her now husband Bill and faces confrontation with Norman for never being the father she needed : Chelsea knows Norman has spent his life rejecting her because she was not the ' son ' he wanted ! Finally the family reconciles past differences and Ethel and Thayer face their aging and its effects as they listen to the loons on the lake . Hepburn , both Fondas , Coleman and McKeon give outstanding performances , but it is the knowledge that this was H . Fonda's last film and for all intents and purposes Hepburn's last film AND the only time the Fonda father / daughter team acted together on the screen that makes the film even more meaningful . The awards were many and well deserved , not only for the picture , but also for the actors and the production crew . It is a shining example of Hollywood films rising to the standards of Indy movies that makes it such a treat .
The Homing Instinct	Loggerheads are turtles , found along the coast of North Carolina , whose lives are unique in that the females always return to the beach where they were born to lay their eggs , hatch their young who in turn by moonlight go out to sea only to return to their origin to repeat the life cycle . The film by the name LOGGERHEADS relies heavily on this phenomenon : it is set in North Carolina and is guided by the young man Mark ( Kip Pardue ) who opens the story sleeping on the beach in Kure Beach , NC where he studies and protects the loggerheads . A complex and challenging film , writer / director Tim Kirkman ( The Night Larry Kramer Kissed Me , Dear Jesse ) calls upon a true story to bring up questions of adoption in all the permutations of the triad , homosexuality , religious intolerance , bigotry , AIDS , and the longing for love and forgiveness . Kirkman sets his story in three years - 1999 , 2000 , 2001 - a fact that can be disconcerting until the flow of the film reveals the need to separate the events in time . Mark is befriended by George ( Michael Kelly ) who is a kind young man , owning a motel , and who provides a room for the beach sleeper Mark . Mark quickly informs George that he has AIDS , thinking that George's kindness is a barter . But George is a true friend and their relationship grows slowly and with mutual trust as they learn the secrets of their pasts : George's lover ' drowned ' in a mysterious accident ; Mark ran away from his adoptive parents when they discovered he was gay ; both men are tender and vulnerable souls afraid of further commitment . Simultaneously we are introduced to Grace ( Bonnie Hunt ) , recently recovering from a suicide attempt who longs to connect with the son she was forced to give up for adoption at age 17 , and who lives with her rather rigid mother Sheridan ( Michael Learned ) who believes Grace should not try to discover the son she never knew . We also meet the minister Rev . Robert ( Chris Sarandon ) and his wife Elizabeth ( Tess Harper ) who are fanatics about gay people and even resent their neighbor Ruth ( Ann Pierce ) who places a nude statue of David on her lawn . The couple's son Mark is never discussed and the adoptive parents never communicate with him - but Ruth does . Ruth finally confides that Mark is ill and the wounds of separation open for Elizabeth . Meanwhile Grace has paid a ' finder ' to locate Mark but the finder gives her a sad report . The three years of the story line make exquisite sense at this point as we realize that Kirkman has allowed us to be voyeurs into a human drama of immense substance , one that inexorably binds these disparate characters . The cast is genuinely fine , with Kip Pardue , Michael Kelly , Bonnie Hunt , Tess Harper all giving highly sophisticated performances . But the credit for the impact of this stunning film goes to the writing and directing of Tim Kirkman . He has a way with film that is unique : we can only hope he will continue to make films of this quality , films that tackle difficult issues and are molded into realistic , non-manipulated dramas . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Well-Crafted , Well-Acted Atmospheric La Belle Epoque Viennese Mystery	Steven Millhauser's brilliant little short story ' Eisenheim the Illusionist ' is beautifully realized cinematically by Neil Burger who not only adapted the story as a screenplay but also directed with a great flair for the subject . Wisely using the repeated line ' Nothing is what it seems ' Burger infuses this dark investigation into the lives of the divided Viennese classes and suggests the crumbling of the Austro-Hungarian Empire with the focus on the illusory magic of one Eisenheim ( finely characterized by Edward Norton ) and its effects on the Crown Prince Leopold ( Rufus Sewell ) and the bifurcated Duchess Sophie ( Jessica Biel ) . As children Eisenheim and Sophie were friends despite the disparity of their class : Sophie was royalty ( a Duchess ) and Eisenheim was the son of a cabinetmaker to the court . They fall in love but are separated by caste and Eisenheim wanders Asia and Russia learning the vagaries of magic and illusionist tricks while Sophie is raised at court to become the wife of Crown Prince Leopold , whose plans to overthrow his father the Emperor to become the King of both Austria and Hungary have made him an obsessive scoundrel . Years later Eisenheim enters Vienna as a showman , under the tutelage of his impresario Josef Fischer ( Eddie Marsan ) , delighting audiences with his illusionist tricks . His impossible love for Sophie resurfaces and he becomes suspect in his role as an illusionist and as a threat tot he Crown . Eisenheim is investigated carefully by Chief Police Inspector Uhl ( a brilliant role by Paul Giamatti ) and the manner in which the fates of the Crown versus the love of Eisenheim and Sophie are resolved is , well , ' Nothing is what it seems ' . The cast is outstanding , the setting ( in Prague ) is incredibly atmospheric , and the costuming and lighting and cinematography marry into a perfect fit . Adding to the illusionist spirit of the film is the fine musical score by Phillip Glass so well loved for his score for ' The Hours ' and one of our most important classical music composers of the day . THE ILLUSIONIST is a fine , misty , dark evocation of life in La Belle Époque of Vienna , based enough on fact that the fiction employs the concept that nothing is what it seems . Grady Harp
The Graffiti Artist is Cinematic Art !	James Bolton ( ' Eban and Charley ' ) is emerging as a filmmaker of considerable note . As writer , producer and director of THE GRAFFITI ARTIST he is introducing a new realm of American verismo that is beautiful to watch , touching in content , and a creatively conceived film from beginning to end . Portland , present time . Nick ( a young Dutch actor Ruben Bansie-Snellman whose magnetism on the camera recalls the early James Dean ) is a teenager who lives the solitary life , committed to his passion of tagging via graffiti art under the tag name ' Rapture ' . He keeps journals of his drawings , photographs of his graffiti , and stays alive by shoplifting his tools of spray cans and his vegetarian diet foods . Always on the look out for police who arrest taggers , Nick is a man against the world . He is arrested for his art . Upon release Nick , by happenstance one day , meets a fellow tagger Jesse ( Pepper Fajans ) with whom he finally speaks ( to this point there has been no dialogue from Nick ) and follows around , sharing art and tagging . Jesse apparently has some money from his mother and is able to provide Nick with food and shelter . The two travel to Seattle to tag , create some truly beautiful graffiti art , and slowly bond to the point that Jesse invites Nick into his bed . What follows is one of the more sensuous yet understated same-sex scenes on film . By morning Jesse already has conflicts with the evening's tryst : Nick appears serenely satisfied yet anxious about Jesse's response . They continue to tag , creating a new , partnered tag name ' Elusive ' . Jesse eventually distances himself from the guarded Nick and leaves to return to Portland . Nick tries to maintain his lifestyle but is now living in the streets and tagging in dangerous places that result in run-ins with the law . But primarily because he misses Jesse , the only other person with whom he has bonded , Nick returns to Portland , leaving tag messages signed ' Rapture ' wherever he sees Jesse's signature ' Flip ' . At last Nick finds Jesse , and learns that Jesse doesn't want to have anything to do with him . Alone again , Nick's return to his solitary life and the way he deals with his dream is the may the story ends . Though there is almost no dialogue in this film , Director Bolton capitalizes on the magnetism of his actors ' body language and especially eye language and the result is simply stunning . Ruben Bansie-Snellman owns the screen and creates a character so heartrendingly simple in his complexity that he pulls us into his strange world of Nick every moment . The music score by Kid Loco and the cinematography by Sarah Levy enhance the dark mood of this piece . THE GRAFFITI ARTIST allows us to see this world as one cruel to those who don't ' fit ' and makes a quiet , powerful statement about the lone individual in a landscape foreign in every way except in art . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Pas de deux , Pas de quatre : A Phenomenal Ghost Story	Jacques Rivette is one of the most under appreciated French film directors in history - and one of the most creative . He seems to dwell in a space known only to cinema , a world as changing , transparent , enigmatic , and transient as the camera's interplay with scenes and actors . His works do not fit into the expected mold of cinematic storytelling : his mind is far too fertile to follow roads previously taken . In ' Histoire de Marie et Julien ' he suspends time ( two and a half hours of it ) to focus on the possibilities of the living and the dead and the planes of ambiguity incited by dreams . The story is less important than the questions it raises and the impact is powerful - if you just stay with him to the last frame . Julien ( Jerzy Radziwilowicz ) is an antique clock restorer , living alone with his cat ' Nevermore ' , a man whose seemingly dull life is touched by his role as a blackmailer to a Madame X ( Anne Brochet ) , a strangely beautiful woman with dark secrets contained in a doll , some documents , and a letter - all somehow in the hands of Julien . Julien meets Marie ( Emmanuelle Béart ) , an ethereally beautiful woman who appears to be both present and not present , depending on the moment . Julien first dreams of his encounter with Marie ( as does she ) and then they actually meet . In no time Marie is moving into Julien's large and musty home , surrounded by clocks and other elements suggesting time . They have a passionate love life and fall in love . Julien shares his blackmailing project with Marie and Marie is the one who is ' the other woman ' in delivering parcels to Madame X in return for cash installments . Madame X's dark secrets include the suicide of her sister Adrienne ( Bettina Kee ) who appears to Marie in what seems to be an established relationship of some sort . Marie's duplicitous nature becomes more apparent . To tell more of this wondrous tale would destroy the slow unraveling of this mysterious love story : best it be seen by the viewers . All of the actors are extraordinarily fine . Rivette spends much of the movie with silences allowing the camera and actors to peruse the atmosphere , encouraging his characters to just interact with the clocks , the cat , the rooms , the parks , the mystery of that netherland of life after death . It is breathtakingly beautiful . The DVD adds poignant interviews with both Rivette and Béart and for once the featurettes add tremendously to understanding this difficult film . Rivette shares with us that he initially wanted to make this film years ago with Leslie Caron and Albert Finney , but that because he wanted the story of the film to grow into telling itself during the filming , he could find no financial backers . Having just viewed the film it would be difficult to imagine the same story with a finer cast than we have here . An unforgettable experience . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' Home is all that matters '	Attempting to understand what drives people to kill other people for any reason is , in the pit of the soul , a challenging enigma . Whether that ' reason ' is war between countries at odds , protecting one's self when endangered , revenge or vengeance for deeds perpetrated by ' the other ' , for panic in the moment of survival - each of these feels wrong despite the fundamental belief to the contrary at the moment of killing . MUNICH is about killing , about vengeance , about protection of ' home ' , about existence in a world so bifurcated by age-old schisms , and about us . And while absorbing all of the 2 hour plus visual and philosophical information put forth in this epic film , the viewer is so paralyzed by the story that blinking for a second seems irreverent . The tragedy of the 1972 Olympics - the brutal kidnapping and murder of eleven Israeli athletes by masked Arab / Palestinian marauders - is brought to the screen with brave and gutsy realism by a brilliant script by Tony Kushner and Eric Roth based on George Jonas ' book Vengeance : The True Story of an Israeli Counter-Terrorist Team , directed with straightforward , no-nonsense sensitivity to all participants by Steven Spielberg , and brought to life by a cast that simply could not be finer . From the opening of the film sans credits with the Black September act of breaking into the Olympic games in Munich , the film moves swiftly through the formation of an anti-terrorist league of Israeli assassins whose job it is to hunt down the killers and murder them , to the final painfully unsettled end . This is all under the instruction and guidance of Golda Meir ( brilliantly played by Lynn Cohen ) and her advisors . The team of Avner ( Eric Bana ) , Steve ( Daniel Craig ) , Carl ( Ciaran Hinds ) , Robert ( Mathieu Kassovitz ) , Hans ( Hanns Zischler ) , and Mossad Accountant ( Oded Teomi ) are instructed by Ephraim ( Geoffrey Rush ) and stripped of their identities to enter this mission . They roam the world based on information purchased from a secret group led by Louis ( Mathieu Amalric ) and Papa ( Michael Lonsdale ) . Gradually growing into the roles of assassins the group begins to murder each of the perpetrators until their success is noticed by all manner of secret agencies ( including the American CIA ) and the tables are turned : the lives of the Israeli assassins are as endangered as those of the Arab murderers . In a particularly touching moment in the dark , Avner and a Palestinian soldier debate the need for the state of Israel and the opposite need for holding onto home by the Palestinian : it is a moment of writing that sums up the entire Israeli conflict . The cinematography by Janusz Kaminski and the music score by the always fine John Williams add dimensions of atmosphere to this dark film , but it is Spielberg doing what he does best in directing attention to moments in history that will never be buried that makes this phenomenal movie an emotional experience for everyone , no matter their political or religious beliefs . It is simply a brilliant film about the need for Home - that sacred place whether internal or external that maintains the reason to live and even to die for it . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Truly Valiant Film Providing an Inside Look at Cuba Today	Director Antonio Cano is a brave artist , the class of filmmaker who is willing to take risks for the sake of his art . SIETE DIAS , SIETE NOCHES takes a frank and brutal look at one week in Cuba , primarily in Havana , where Cano follows the lives of several women under the kind of stress those of us in this country can only suppose . He does not preach , he does not fall into one side or the other of propaganda : he simply has written and filmed a story that lets us see how people living in Cuba cope . The film opens with a woman TV news anchor Norma Fernandez reciting the news with a tear in her eye and , unable to continue reporting the lies of the government , she weeps , pulls off her wig , and runs form the studio , pledging a life of silence . At the same time in another section of the country a peasant woman Maria loses her young son in a bizarre situation that could be construed as infanticide . Devastated , she leaves her home to move to the street life in Havana for isolation and survival . In yet another area one elegantly thin and beautiful woman Nieves reluctantly carries out her means of livelihood by killing pigs in a slaughter , all the while dreaming of being a cabaret dancer . Her attitude results in her losing her job and in her mother throwing her out of her meager flat that has been home . Cano uses these three women as primary focus and works these desperate lives into a fabric that intertwines like a vast mural of decay , lost hope , dog fights , cock fights , sexual encounters , multiple lullabies , and descents into madness , and humor and dancing and , above all , the eternal hope that tomorrow will bring a better life . This is brutal realism , beautifully captured on film by a group of gifted actors , among them Ingrid Gonzalez , Ludmila Alonso-Yodu , Mercedes Morales , Erudye Munuz , Orsiel Gaspar , Alcedes Alvarez to name only a few . The impact of this film is powerful : it will take multiple viewings to realize all of the intricacies of the plot and the interactions of the characters , young and old , with the government and the culture of Cuba . This is one of those films that deserves a wide audience for those who are concerned about the lives of people who live under suppressive regimes . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Understanding why Westerns are a National Treasure	If there is a truly unique American contribution to film making then that contribution has to be the Western . Though not as popular a theme these days as it was in past decades , it only takes a powerhouse film such as 3 : 10 TO YUMA to remind us just how pungent storytelling of this type can be . Yes , the story itself ( based on a short story by Elmore Leonard ) is rather simple : desperate farmer needs money to save his failing farm and family and signs on to escort a powerful outlaw to the train that will take him to prison . But in this screen adaptation by Halsted Welles , Michael Brandt , and Derek Haas the story is fleshed out by sharing with the audience the essence of the pioneer spirit and the sequelae of the Civil War on the minds of the dispossessed who turned to crime against the ruling order - the railroads and the banks represented the conquering North - and the film becomes one of profound understanding about man's plight in the pioneer West . The landscape and atmosphere of Arizona is captured with dusty accuracy by cinematographer Phedon Papamichael and sets the stage for director James Mangold ( ' Girl , Interrupted ' , ' Walk the Line ' , ' Identity ' , ' Kate and Leopold ' , ' Cop Land ' ) to work with his talented cast to give a realistic view of life in the hard times of the old West . Russell Crowe is the notorious outlaw Ben Wade whose gang includes such actors as Ben Foster and Rio Alexander and once he is captured during a robbery , the local sheriff promises to pay $200 . to destitute , crippled farmer Dan Evans to escort the prisoner to Contention , AZ for catching a ride to the 3 : 10 to Yuma and prison . The connection between the two disparate men - Wade and Evans - is the message of the story and is beautifully enhanced by allowing the audience to understand both sides of ' the law ' . The co-stars of the film include Gretchen Mol as Evans ' wife and young Logan Lerman as Evans ' impressionable son William , Dallas Roberts as the head of the bank investment at risk , Peter Fonda , Alan Tudyk , Vinessa Shaw and a large cast of the people who interplay in the drama . Both Crowe and Bale give superlative performances , acting so cohesively that it would be difficult to single out either for the Oscar : this is ensemble acting at its finest . For once the added features enhance our appreciation of the tales from the Old West and how they became legends and the comments by the director , producers and cast actually make sense ! The film will doubtless become a classic : it deserves the honor . Grady Harp
Broken Hopes and Broken Lives : A Study of New Orleans	For those who have read Ronald Everett Capps ' novel ' Off Magazine Street ' and savor the slow , lugubrious , decadent pattern of life in the poor section of New Orleans , then Screenwriter / Director Shainee Gabel's transformation of those ideas into A LOVE SONG FOR BOBBY LONG will certainly satisfy . Though Gabel has manipulated characters names and identification to fit her sensitive interpretation of Capps ' story into a visual manifestation , the changes are sound and serve to make this remarkably fine low budget film a humid , alcoholically lethargic slice of New Orleans as viable as , say , Tennessee Williams . There is a captured ambiance of the South complete with decay , shanties , intermittent rain , and aimless broken lives that sets a fine stage for a rather minimal story . Purslane Hominy Will ( Scarlett Johansson ) is a young high school dropout living in trailer park trash in Florida with a low class boyfriend Lee ( Clayne Crawford ) when she learns of her mother Lorraine's death in New Orleans . Though she hasn't seen or heard from her obese , druggie , songwriter mother in years , she wants to attend her funeral and strikes out for New Orleans . Arriving on the doorstep of her mother's rundown , rotting house , she discovers Bobby Long ( John Travolta ) , an unkempt drunk who once was an English professor in a college in Alabama but fell into oblivion and alcohol when he lost his wife and family . He is living in filth with Lawson Pines ( Gabriel Macht ) who , as Bobby's teaching assistant whom Bobby has deemed gifted , has followed Bobby to write Bobby's biography - a work in progress that has stalemated in favor of alcoholism and disillusionment . Pursey hears that Booby and Lawson were Lorraine's closest friends ( she had invited them to flop in her shabby house , entertained by their low key scholasticism and literature quoting ) , and that Lorraine had willed her home to the three of them . Pursey moves in reluctantly - she has nowhere else to go - and immediately is at odds with her ' roommates ' . Likewise Bobby and Lawson resist Pursey's presence and insist she ' get a life ' by returning to high school , making use of her obvious intellect . The verbal sparing that eventually leads the three to find a sense of family lays the foundation for the predictable conclusion . That is the simplicity of the tale - if it is storyline that is important to you . Gabel's distillation of Capps ' novel is in the atmosphere she creates with these gifted actors . Bobby may be a drunk but he is the spokesman for a neighborhood of sad broken lives . The world is confined to the street that contains the local bar , churches , and graveyards - each of varying importance but all drenched in humidity and frequent rains and alcohol and aimless living . The local bar is tended by Georgiana ( Deborah Kara Unger ) with whom Lawson is having a strained affair . The folk who gather at Bobby's literature-spouting soirees include gardener Cecil ( Dane Rhodes ) , Junior ( David Jensen ) , to mention only a few well-defined characters . That anyone could alter the ennui in the way Pursey changes things is a minor miracle . The minimal music score by Grayson Capps is atmospheric as are the off-screen comments and quotations of great literature of TS Eliot , Robert Frost , WH Auden et al . The cinematography by Eliot Davis is properly claustrophobic and decadent in atmosphere . And while some feel the movie is too long for the minimal story , the length and pacing are in keeping with the traditions and the literature of the South and for this viewer it works exceedingly well . Travolta , Johansson , Macht , and Unger give multifaceted , highly sensitive performances . As for Shainee Gabel ( whose only other film was the controversial ' Anthem ' ) here is a writer and director to watch . The DVD contains some excellent deleted scenes and one of the more informative ' making of ' segments with Gabel , Travolta , Johansson , Macht , and Rhodes speaking with quiet eloquence . Highly recommended .
An Intense , Powerful Story Ignited by Dench and Blanchett	NOTES ON A SCANDAL invites the audience to read the diary of a very lonely , crusty , frumpy , acerbic history teacher Barbara Covett ( Judi Dench ) through the voice-over narrative throughout this challenging , harsh , but very brave cinematic version on the novel ' What Was She Thinking : Notes on a Scandal ' by Zoe Heller , brilliantly adapted for the screen by Patrick Marber . It is a success on every level - story , direction , cinematography , and especially acting . Barbara Covett ( Dench ) is a fierce disciplinarian in a school populated by children who are more interested in drugs and misbehavior than in learning . She has no life except with her aging cat Portia , spending her lonely hours away from the classroom making entries into a journal . Into this icy atmosphere comes a new art teacher , the luminously beautiful free-spirited Sheba ( very significantly short for Bathsheba ! ) Hart ( Cate Blanchett ) . Barbara notices Sheba's presence at first with critical disdain then with fascination : Sheba is new to teaching , having ' wasted ' her life as a potential artist by marrying too early her senior teacher Richard ( Bill Nighy ) and mothering two children , teenage Polly ( Juno Temple ) and Down's Syndrome Ben ( Max Lewis ) , and now wanting to make something interesting of her life . Sheba enters into an affair with 15-year-old Steven Connolly ( Andrew Simpson ) , a lad who wins her attention first through sympathy ploy for his ' bad home life ' and eventually conquers her better judgment by paying physical attention and gratification to her . Barbara secretly observes the couple en flagrant and lets her new friend know of her discovery of an act that is criminal . The manner in which Barbara gains Sheba's attention by keeping Sheba's explosively dangerous behavior a shared secret leads to a fulfillment of Barbara's wish to not spend her life alone : she is in love with Sheba and will stop at nothing to have Sheba to herself . But when Sheba is unable to stop her sensual dalliance with Steven , Barbara begins a course of events that leads to destruction of all kinds . The journal entries tell it all in scrupulous detail . The entire cast is superb , much to the credit of director Richard Eyre ( Stage Beauty , Iris , The Ploughman's Lunch , and multiple television adaptations of classics ) . His sense of pacing the action is overwhelmingly fine . For this viewer the musical score by the gifted Philip Glass is successful in maintaining tension , but is far more mundane than his other scores and composing - and the music drowns the dialog far too often . But this is a minor flaw when compared to the intelligent , sensitive , subtle , completely credible performances by both Dench and Blanchett . They are the epitome of fine actors and watching them work is an awe-inspiring pleasure . The film deals with difficult subject matter but succeeds in steering clear of sensationalism to present the sad inner lives of two disparate yet similar women . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Living with the Sins of Childhood	BOY A is a film that moves the audience in ways few other films do . Part of this is the subject matter , part the solid drama of the novel by Jonathan Trigell on which Mark O'Rowe based his brilliantly understated screenplay , part the sensitive direction by John Crowley , and in large part is the cast of remarkably fine actors who make this impossibly treacherous story credible . ' Boy A ' refers to Eric Wilson ( Alfie Owen ) who was jailed for a crime with his friend with whom he was associated as a youth . He has been released from prison and under the guidance of his ' parole officer / adviser ' Terry ( Peter Mullan ) , the now young adult is renamed Jack Burridge ( Andrew Garfield ) to protect him from the public who still remember the heinous crime of which he was convicted : Terry warns Jack to tell no one his real identity . Jack is assigned a new family and finds new friends in this strange world outside prison walls , but he is still haunted by the crime that changed his life . How Jack relates to his first female relationship and survives the bigotry of his classmates and city folk and finds a way to hold onto life despite his childhood ' sins ' forms the development of this story . While the entire cast is excellent , Andrew Garfield's performance as the guilt ridden needy Eric / Jack is exemplary . There are many issues this film deals with in addition to the trauma of starting life over after imprisonment , issues that are universal in nature and that probe our psyches for answers that are never easily resolved here . It is a brilliant little film from Canada . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
One of the Sleepers of the Year : A Superb Film !	FIGHTING TOMMY RILEY has so many things going for it that it is amazing it didn't do well in the box office . Perhaps audiences are tired of ' boxing movies ' ( ' Million Dollar Baby ' sort of usurped that position for a while ) , but this is not a typical boxing movie : Fighting Tommy Riley takes risks all over the place and that is what helps make it so fine . Written by J . P . Davis who also plays the title role , the story is less about Tommy Riley than it is about his trainer Marty Goldberg ( long-established fine character actor Eddie Jones ) : this is not a self promoting Rocky / Sylvester Stallone story , fine as that films series was . For a first time writer and actor and directed by first time director Eddie O'Flaherty and cast with unknowns except for Eddie Jones , this film is a ' knockout ' ( pardon the pun ) . Tommy Riley is a young and gifted boxer on the skids , disillusioned by his loss at an attempt at the Olympic trials , an unfortunate lapse of self-confidence that has destroyed his relationship with his girl Stephanie ( Christina Chambers ) and forced him to do menial labor just to survive . Concurrently we meet Marty Goldberg , an obese , has been trainer who left the ring because of a dark demon he harbors and has turned to teaching high school English . Marty lives with his dog Lucy in squalor , surrounded by the many books he reads and quotes , memorabilia of a ruined career , and sleeping pills . His one friend is feisty Diane Stone ( Diane Taylor ) who Marty salvaged some time ago from her own downward plunge . Diane is a boxing promoter looking for a client . When Marty and Diane and Tommy collide the beginning of a vigorous training life begins and each of the three gains a resurgence of self-respect . Both Tommy and Marty carry a load of baggage demons that eventually surface and as Tommy slowly builds as a fighter ready for competition , Marty's devotion to the kid's career becomes more than professional and an unfortunate but inevitable encounter changes their path toward glory . With Diane's promotion Tommy gains the recognition of big time promoter Riley ( Scot Belsky ) and Tommy is torn between the promise of fame and wealth and his emotional commitment to Marty : his initial impulse to go with Riley ( which is contingent on leaving Marty as a trainer ) is met with resistance until Marty humbly encourages Tommy to go for his career rather than his obligation to Marty . The result of Tommy's decision tells the story of the film and to reveal it would be unfair . Eddie Jones and JP Davis are absolutely superb is these very demanding roles . Rarely as a film about sports been influenced by the presence of sexual preferences , and Eddie Jones handles this enigmatic characteristic with extreme sensitivity and makes us all feel his anguish at the slings that life has thrown his way . And the manner in which Davis finesses both the initial advances from Jones and then gradually alters his response in understanding Jones ' behavior is nothing short of miraculous acting . Director O'Flaherty has created a brilliant little film from Davis ' fine script and one can only hope there will be more collaborations as excellent as this . The cinematography ( Michael Fimognari ) and musical score ( Lee Sanders and Tim Simonec ) keep the mood of the film flowing . Bravo to all concerned not only for a fine story well done , but also for the courage to focus on sub rosa sexual themes with all the sensitivity this film represents . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
A Perfect British Confection with Heart	MRS . HENDERSON PRESENTS is easily one of the best films of 2005 . That it didn't garner an Oscar for Judi Dench is amazing as this is one of her finest roles ( in a long line of superb films ! ) . Director Stephen Frears ( Dangerous Liaisons , Dirty Pretty Things , The Grifters , Liam etc ) has put together a film that is at once nostalgic , sophisticated , intelligent , witty , sad , and thoroughly entertaining . This little film is a winner . London , 1937 , and Laura Henderson , having lost her only son in WW I is discovered at the graveside of her recently departed husband . Not wanting to be stuck with the British widow stance , she decides on a hobby to occupy her time : she buys , renovates and readies a theater in the West End of London , hires Vivian Van Damm ( Bob Hoskins ) to be her impresario and the two successfully begin a music hall type of entertainment . Their efforts are soon so imitated that their income falters , giving Mrs . Henderson a new concept : she will introduce full nudity into her theater to replace the French postcard surrogates the soldiers carry . Mrs . Henderson is indefatigable , has a laceratingly funny relationship with Van Damm , and even manages to cajole the politicians to go along with her ' new concept ' . By now WW II is at it s peak and despite the London blitzkriegs the theater manages to survive , but not without some sacrifices and some self-revelations between Mrs . Henderson and Van Damm . There are many little subplots involving the company of performers , but they all blend nicely into the poignant story . Judi Dench is absolutely radiant in this role , a role that allows her to cover a wide gamut of moods , each of which she handles expertly . Likewise , Bob Hoskins gives the performance of his rich career and the other cast members in this ensemble piece could not be better . The music and staged numbers are delightful and the atmosphere of London under siege is very realistic . In every way this is a successful movie , one that deserves a wide audience and one of those DVDs worthy of placing in your film library . A hearty Bravo ! to all concerned ! Grady Harp
Silence as a Protection for Facing Past Horrors	It is always a joy to find a DVD in the videostore that is completely an unknown entity , only to discover upon viewing it that it is a little masterpiece of cinematic art . Such is the case with THE SECRET LIFE OF WORDS , and having seen the film now raises the question of how it went unnoticed in the theater release . Though touted on the cover as an ' Almodóvar film ' , in reality it's connection to the genius lies in the fact that both Pedro and his brother Agustín Almodóvar were executive producers : the film was written and directed by Spanish artist Isabel Coixet ( Paris , je t'aime , Invisibles , My Life Without Me ) . It is a minimalist statement about the indomitable human spirit , a story that slowly unwinds to reveal some of the most terrifying aspects of trauma of war and guilt and shame ever written . Hanna ( Sarah Polley , in a phenomenal performance ) is a deaf , silent reclusive young woman working as a line operator in a factory , so married to her meaningless job that her boss insists she take a vacation she deserves . Hanna does as she's told , and journeys to a seaside spot where she hears about a man on an oil rig in the middle of the ocean who is severely burned and needs a nurse . Hanna quietly takes the job , is flown by the doctor ( Steven Mackintosh ) to the isolated oil rig , populated with only a few men - cook Simon ( Javier Cámara of ' Hable con ella ' , ' La Mala educación , ' Lucía y el sexo ' etc ) , oceanographer and workers ( Eddie Marsan , Daniel Mays , Dean Lennox Kelly , Danny Cunningham , Emmanuel Idowu ) and a captain ( Steven Mackintosh ) , and meets her patient Josef ( Tim Robbins ) who is temporarily blinded from burns to his corneas , and severely burned on his limbs . Josef seeks to discover information from Hanna , but Hanna shares nothing about herself , spending her time dressing Josef's wounds , feeding him and tending to his needs . He slowly reveals his painful past to her ( he was burned in an accident in which his best friend was burned to death , the friend whose wife had become Josef's lover ! ) . Hanna is treated well by the few men on the isolated rig and learns to eat the exotic foods prepared by Simon , becoming friends with the crew , though at a distance , and gradually Hanna speaks with Josef about herself . In a painful confessional Hanna reveals that she is Bosnian and a survivor of the Balkan war , a hideous time when she and her close friend were captured , tortured and raped , leaving Hanna with physical as well as psychic scars and an enormous feeling of shame that her friend died and she survived . This knowledge bonds Hanna and Josef , but by this point it is time for Josef to be medevaced to a hospital onshore and the two part company . After some time has passed and Josef has recovered , he begins his search for Hanna and the journey and its finale serve as a touching end to the story . The cast is uniformly brilliant , including a small role of Hanna's therapist played convincingly by Julie Christie . The metaphors the tale offers are many , but the most moving is an examination of how the human mind deals with survival and shame after trauma . Director Isabel Coixet draws such subtle performances from the entire cast in this very small film , proving she is one of the more important artists in film making today . Very Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Vengeance is Mine . . . but Who am I ?	Trauma , severe trauma , can unleash aspects of the human personality that may appear as a stranger within . Such is the premise for this well-constructed film by Neil Jordan ( screenplay by Roderick Taylor and Bruce Taylor ) , and while the neither concept of trauma-altered personality or revenge tales is new , THE BRAVE ONE alters the vengeance idea just enough to make it credible and to even draw the viewer into believing that what the character is doing is justified and right ! And that is perhaps the most frightening aspect of this terrifying film . Erica Bain ( Jodie Foster ) is a night radio talk show performer , a woman who walks the city of New York gathering sounds and observing the mysteries of the ' safest big city ' and relates her observations poetically to a large radio audience . Erica is engaged to young physician David ( Naveen Andrews ) and the couple are very much in love . One night on an evening stroll with their dog they are attacked by thugs , beaten with pipes , and David is killed while Erica narrowly survives . Upon awakening from her coma she is devastated by her loss of David and becomes a strangely haunted woman , unable to sleep , unable to get immediate help from the police , and turns to purchasing a gun in an attempt to right the wrongs she has suffered . This new ' person ' or ' stranger within ' happens to witness a murder in a little store and to her amazement she responds by killing the murderer . A similar situation happens on the subway where two thugs threaten people , threaten Erica , and Erica again responds by killing the thugs . She feels driven to avenge the death of her David , but at the same time fears her own inner stranger . Erica returns to her radio show , under changing instructions form her boss Carol ( Mary Steenburgen ) , and finds the changes in her psyche result in bracing her listeners about fear on the streets . In her audience is Detective Mercer ( Terrence Howard ) who has personal problems related to the fact that he has been unable to arrest a known killer . Mercer connects with Erica in various ways , she interviews him for her show , and the two bond . Erica trusts Mercer , wants to share what she is doing , yet hears his frustration about not being able to seek his own brand of revenge frustration against the oily killer he pursues , and decides to eliminate that trauma for Mercer . As the tension builds , the identity of Erica's assailants is discovered , and how she deals with these thugs ( and with Mercer's interaction in the solution ) forms the surprising ending for the film . Too little has been written and said about the quality of performances from both Foster and Howard in this tense thriller . These two actors deliver performances so sensitive in execution that memories of previous similar films evaporate . This is a tough film to watch for all the violence not only on the screen but from within the characterizations by the actors ( with the capable direction of Neil Jordan ) , but it is for this viewer one of the strongest films of the year . Perhaps now that the DVD can be viewed within the safety of the home more people will pay attention to a film that deserves awards . Grady Harp
Another Poignant View of the Holocaust from Prague	Writer Jirí Hubac and Director Matej Minac have created a fine and very different approach to the Holocaust stories of WW II - its insidious origins and relentless destruction of a beautiful Czech family - in the film ' Vsichni moji blízcí ' ( ' All My Loved Ones ' ) . Though the subject matter has been treated in countless films , this relating of the story of a large , happy , well adjusted family in Prague and its gradual disintegration does not dwell on atrocities of the camps but instead slowly unwinds the story of how Hitler's masterplan overtook and crushed so many innocent people . The Silbersteins include a physician and his wife and son , a brother who is a gypsy of sorts , another brother who is a concert violinist and falls in love with a non-Jew , accepted by his family but eventually rejected by her and her family because of the pogrom , and all manner of extended family circling in the warmth of the good life in 1939 . Very gradually the Nazis take over the Czech borders , not really heeded by the Silbersteins ( ' no one could be as mad as Hitler may seem ' ) and gradually the evacuation and genocide of the Jews begins . Dr Silberstein is introduced to an American Nicholas Winton ( Rupert Graves ) who has come to Prague to save the children by providing them safe transport to America . The Silbersteins reluctantly release their son when they see that is his only hope for survival : the remainder of the family's future is doomed . The rest of the film deals primarily with the homage to Winton , showing the real man and the many of the 600 children he rescued . It is deeply moving . The color and camera work is elegant and very much in keeping with the film's emphasis on the dignity of the Silberstein family . The acting by this Czech troupe is excellent , never cloying , always sensitive to the very human response to the black cloud of the Third Reich's Holocaust . In every way this is a film to treasure . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Understanding FDR : Physical Challenges Offer Triumph	WARM SPRINGS is one of the finest films ever produced by HBO and clearly belongs on the theatrical screens . But until that happens the news of the release of the DVD should allow those who missed this phenomenal film to feel greeted with well-earned joy . Writer Margaret Nagle and Director Joseph Sargent have created an isolated time in the life of Franklin Delano Roosevelt , the inception of his polio at age 39 and the treatment of his impairment at Warm Springs , Georgia , and use this potential tragedy to demonstrate how a man of means and high political aspirations was humbled by a debilitating disease only to find healing and consolation at the hands of ' the common people ' , a change in his priorities that marked his popular success as a President who inherited the leadership of a country devastated by depression and war . Kenneth Branagh is superlative as FDR , finding just the right amount of bravado and churlishness and womanizing while continuing to be the man of great potential and a loving husband to Eleanor ( a surprisingly terrific Cynthia Nixon ) . His overbearing mother Sara Delano Roosevelt ( Jane Alexander who is still remembered as a perfect ' Eleanor ' in the older ' Franklin and Eleanor ' ) tries her best to belittle Eleanor , only to enhance Eleanor's blossoming into the world respected , humanistic First Lady she became . But much of the action is aptly placed at the healing resort of Warm Springs , a run down hot springs operated by Tom Loyless ( Tim Blake Nelson ) and the place where Helena Mahoney ( Kathy Bates ) nursed FDR back to health . The importance of this spot grows through the film and through FDR's life and in the end it is the beneficiary of his estate . Watching Branagh tumble from political barnstormer to reluctant patient to humanized President is a heartwarming venture . His supporting cast is excellent - Bates , Nixon , Alexander , Nelson as well as David Paymer , Deborah Calloway Duke , Danny Connell , and many others . The direction by Joseph Sargent is one of simplicity , purity of purpose , and highly respectful of his story and his view of history . This is an important film . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Ensemble Film-making at its Finest	Adolfo Aristarain is one of those rare filmmakers who defines his own world in cinema by writing and directing terrific stories with brilliant dialogue and using a familiar cadre of actors who give the finished product an ensemble effort . He is one of Argentina's finest artists and couples frequently with writer Kathy Saavedra ( Roma , Un lugar en el mundo , Lugares communes , Martín ( Hache ) , etc ) and elects to use the extraordinary actors from Argentina such as Federico Luppi . Cecilia Roth , Juan Diego Botta and Eusebio Poncela . The results are stunning motion pictures that while addressing the intellect of the audience never fail to entertain as well . ' Martín ( Hache ) ' is just such a film . With a challenging and wise script and a cadre of fine actors in every role Aristarain has created a poignant , philosophical and superlative character study about people and their need for relating in the world as we have altered it today . Martín ( the brilliant Federico Luppi ) is a wealthy writer who left his family in Buenos Aires five years ago to live and work in Madrid . He has a nineteen year old son Hache ( Juan Diego Botta ) - Hache is the Spanish pronunciation for the alphabet letter ' J ' and since the son's name is Martin J . he elects to be called J or Hache - who is a restless , foundationless teenager who refuses to go to school preferring to simply play his electric guitar and run with the drug crowd . His mother has remarried and has a new baby and Hache is feeling like a third wheel . He accidentally overdoses on alcohol and drugs during a performance , collapses , and his mother notifies Martín that Hache has attempted suicide to induce Martín to return to Buenos Aires and take back his son Hache . Hache of course recovers and his mother insists that Hache is in the way and that he must go to Madrid to live with Martín : Martín begrudgingly agrees . In Madrid , Martín has been living the life of a recluse whose only contacts are his squeeze Alicia ( Cecilia Roth , an actress of limitless talent ) , who escapes her life by an addiction to coke but loves Martín , and his best friend the bisexual actor Dante ( Eusebio Poncela ) who is an Epicurean living all aspects of life for the pleasures he finds . Once Hache has moved in with his distant , cold , sullen father he falls under the influence of Alicia and Dante who adore him and attempt to show him a life of sunshine in Madrid while Martín sequesters himself in his writing . How this unlikely quartet interacts , bouncing the Apollonian against the Dionysian poles of living forms the basis for the story . Hache grows to understand the spectrum of worldviews , a tragedy occurs , and the ongoing silent duel between the father and the son comes to a touching resolution . Hearing and watching this quartet of brilliant actors is not unlike attending a performance of a fine string quartet . Aristarain keeps the long film ( two hours + ) moving in such a beautifully liquid flow that the story seems to take moments . But the moments are all treasures , the result of the ensemble of writing , directing , and acting . ' Martín ( Hache ) ' is simply a brilliant film . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
An Old Friend of a Movie	There are films that linger in memory for the warmth they exude and the impression they leave . So it is with the now 15 year old film FRIED GREEN TOMATOES based on the novel ' Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe ' by Fannie Flagg and arranged for the screen by that author . This is a film that explores racism , feminism , respect for the elderly , women's rights , and so very much more in a manner that is infectious to watch repeatedly and defies forgetting . Told on two levels , the film is narrated by the elderly Ninny Threadgoode ( a luminous Jessica Tandy ) who idles away her hours in her nursing home with stories about her childhood she shares with the sad , obese , emotionally fragile Evelyn ( Kathy Bates ) whose life of misery is slowly corrected by Ninny's tales of how two women in the past overcame impossible odds . The story she tells dates back to Alabama in the 1930s when a young upstart Idgie Threadgoode ( Mary Stuart Masterson ) is calmed by a frightened but solid Ruth Jamison ( Mary-Louise Parker ) and how their partnering results in a series of events that involve murder , racism , and some very strange events . The cast is superb , the script is delicious ( ! ) , and Jon Avnet directs with aplomb not only the fresh talent mentioned above , but also such fine actors as Cicely Tyson , Chris O'Donnell , Stan Shaw , Lois Smith and a large cast of supporting actors . The re-creation of the Old South is palpably well focused as is the hilarious and touching stance from the contemporary standpoint of the nursing home and house of the chameleon Evelyn . It is a choice bit of film-making and one that deserves a place in every film lover's library . Grady Harp
A Hollywood Masterpiece	Experiencing older Hollywood films , films made in the era when script , direction , cinematography , lighting , musical scoring and acting became melded together in an intricate but cohesive escapist adventure , is like visiting a fine art museum - masters at work creating a living work of art that time only enhances in respect . Such is the case for Roman Polanski's 1974 film noir CHINATOWN . Robert Towne's brilliant script is the baseline for this fascinating story of the Los Angeles and environs of the 1930s , a time when power was wedded to corruption , greed , family secrets of aberrant stature , and manipulation of resources ( here the Department of Water and Power , the police , and entrepreneurs ) . Using the inimitable Jack Nicholson as the smart and daring private detective who pries open a conspiracy in the family of John Huston and his daughter Faye Dunaway whose private life secret is as huge as the water stealing crimes that are at the basis of the story was a stroke of genius that has rarely been matched since . And tying all of this together with one of Jerry Goldsmith's finest musical scores and cinematography that is liquid and redolent of the wastes that were the at the core of Los Angeles ' prostitution of sunlight and shadow - the desert by the sea - was part of Polanski's genius for direction . For viewing an example of the finest in film-making , CHINATOWN remains at the top of the list . Grady Harp
Humanizing Augusten Burroughs : A Model of Screenplay Adaptation	For those legions of us who delighted in Augusten Burroughs ' sharing of his exceedingly warped childhood in the memoir RUNNING WITH SCISSORS , this book to film transformation will be revelatory and extremely satisfying . Until watching the DVD ( not expecting a book of this nature could be successfully molded into a film , much less be a platform for Annette Bening to garner Golden Globe accolades for a role like Deirdre ) , it is impossible to believe that such a fine book could and is an even better movie . Kudos to writer , director , producer Ryan Murphy for taking a one-person standup comedy book and mold it into a riotously funny and at the same time deeply moving story about the effects of childhood on our personality development . Augusten ( first as 6-year old Jack Kaeding and later as brilliantly transformed by the very talented Joseph Cross ) is a conflicted child whose mother Deirdre ( Annette Bening in an Oscar deserving performance ) is a bipolar poet wannabe with delusions of grandeur who drives her alcoholic husband Norman ( Alec Baldwin ) out of the house , preferring instead to form a lesbian relationship with Fern ( Kristin Chenoweth ) from one of her wildly dysfunctional poetry groups . Deirdre's psychiatrist Dr . Finch ( the always superb Brian Cox ) plies her with pills and ultimately is the one to whom Deirdre gives Augusten up for adoption . Finch lives in a grotesque house , but no more absurd than his mad family : his wife Agnes ( Jill Clayburgh ) eats cat kibbles and appears to be quite mad ; Hope ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) is possessed by God and follows holy commands to bury the cat Freud ; Natalie ( Evan Rachel Wood ) whose perception of her wild family leads her to be Augusten's ally ; and Neil Bookman ( Joseph Fiennes ) a strange dark man who lives in a shed and introduces Augusten to his true sexual identity . In this madhouse Augusten manipulates his way toward understanding adults and free thought , savoring his unusual experiences as fodder for later use , and getting a handle on his own dreams and ultimate escape from his twisted childhood to run off to New York and become a writer ! The characters , no matter how bizarre and wacky , each have redeeming values , much to the finessing by Ryan Murphy of Augusten Burroughs ' memoir . What could have been a raucous mess of a film Murphy , with Burroughs ' blessing , transformed into a sensitive statement about relationships , family , extended family , and the degree that harsh reality can actually supplant the growth of an artist . The cast is uniformly splendid - Annette Bening is amazingly three-dimensional - and the choice of Joseph Cross as Augusten is completely on target for this re-thinking of an impossible book to film . Highly recommended , but do read the book , too ! Grady Harp
A Virtuosic Mind Twister of a Film	TELL NO ONE ( Ne le dis à personne ) succeeds on every level for this viewer . Based on Harlan Coben's novel and adapted for the screen and directed by Guillaume Canet , this is one of those intricately complex French films that is much in the same mode as the 1955 film LES DIABOLIQUE . Nothing is as it appears at first and even when the mystery is explained in what appears to be a systematic , cohesive manner , the ' real story ' remains a conundrum . It is a brilliant little film well worth multiple viewings to fully appreciate all of the aspects of the fine acting , cinematography , direction and musical scoring . In a misty opening we discover Alexandre Beck ( François Cluzet ) and his beautiful wife Margot ( Marie-Josée Croze ) only to abruptly be drawn into the murder of Margot and the beating of Alexandre . The incidents are shrouded in mystery and remain so for eight years when suddenly the now pediatrician Alexandre receives an email from the ' deceased ' Margot . Alexandre's world is topsy turvy and he begins to share the strange incident with his family - his sister Anne ( Marina Hines ) and her lover Hélène ( a radiant Kristin Scott Thomas ) , his father , Margot's family . . . and the police who begin to discover evidence that implicates Alexandre as the perpetrator . Alexandre's lawyer ( Nathalie Baye ) pits evidence against the police investigators while Alexandre's chief ally in his run from the accusers is Bruno ( Gilles Lellouche ) , the father of a hemophiliac patient whom Alexandre has treated and befriended . The chase is on and the clues become increasingly puzzling until at last the truth of the now eight year old murder and all of the implications of that event unfold . If there are seemingly holes in the story it is because we , the audience , are never quite sure about the twists and turns of the plot . The acting is superb from this cast of some of France's finest artists , and one of the best performances in the film comes from British actress Kristin Scott Thomas , reminding us that she is one of the most talented and beautiful actors on the screen today ! This is a tough little film to follow , but the quality of both the story and the production is first rate . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Seeking and Finding Meaning in the Midst of Bleakness	SCHIZO is a stunning cinematic achievement from Kazakhstan courtesy of Gulshat Omarova who directed and co-wrote with Sergei Bodrov this story of survival in the bleak landscape of poverty in that part of the world about which we know little . Mustafa ( nicknamed Schizo by his schoolmates who find his behavior crazy ) lives with mother and her boyfriend Sakura ( Eduard Tabishev ) , a worldly guy who arranges illegal , brutal boxing matches with unemployed desperate men who are placed in a ring with ' professionals ' . Schizo's mother seeks help for Schizo from a kindly doctor ( who she pays in eggs and sour cream of her own making ) : the doctor ( Viktor Sukhorukov ) prescribes pills for Schizo's behavior and headache and recommends expensive test in the nearby city . Sakura engages Schizo to ferret out ' victims ' for the illegal games , offering companionship and some money to the lonely kid . At one fight a young man Ali is beaten to death and as he dies he makes Schizo promise to give his ' winning money ' to his girl Zinka ( Olga Landina ) and his son . Schizo keeps his word and delivers the money to Zinka who lives below the poverty level in a shack outside of the tiny town . Schizo makes friends with Zinka's young son , and ultimately is forced to tell Zinka that Ali is dead . Furious at first , Zinka gradually warms to Schizo as he repeatedly brings her little gifts he buys with the money from his work with Sakura . The three finally form a semblance of family , a life Schizo has never known . Sakura's dealings with the illegal boxing come to disaster when Schizo's alcoholic uncle , bribed to fight , actually wins , destroying the crime ring . Sakura convinces Schizo to rob a little store so that he can pay back the irate crime leaders , but as soon as the robbery is successful , Sakura denies Schizo his rightful 50 % , tries to flee , but Schizo shoots the escaping Sakura , leaving Schizo now a killer but with all the stolen money as his own . How Schizo deals with this mixture of misfortune and luck and the consequences of his behavior forms the ending to this little story . The acting is extraordinary , especially on the part of novice Oldzhas Nusupbayev as Schizo , a young actor given little dialogue but who is able to tell legions of information with his eyes . The camera work and musical scoring are as sensitively minimal and effective as is the story : the images of poverty and deserted structures left behind by the fall of the Soviet Union are mesmerizing . Highly Recommended . In Russian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Visually Stunning , Bold , and Intensely Moving Film	JAN DARA is one of those rare films that succeeds on many levels : the story as adapted from a famous Thai novel ' The Story of Jan Dara ' by Utsana Phleungtham is one of intrigue and exploration of lust , revenge , and thwarted passion ; the cinematography by Nattawut Kittikhun is incredibly atmospheric while at the same time pausing for some of the most beautiful studies of nature on film ; the musical score by Chartchai Pongprapapan and Pakawat Waiwitaya mixes the exotic pentatonic Oriental melodies with quaint excerpts from early recordings of Richard Strauss and Puccini operas ; the direction by Nonzee Nimibutr is so sensuously elegant that this film firmly establishes him as an important figure in international film-making . Simply stated , the story is about Jan Dara , the son of a woman who died giving birth to him , his life as an abused and unwanted child in the house of his ' father ' spent searching for the love of his lost mother , his first encounters with passion and love , his adaptation to the realities of surviving in a family fraught with conflicts and bizarrely tangled interrelationships , and the disillusionment that comes with the discovery of his true family history and how the way his life comes full circle . It is a period piece and includes the outside effects of WW II in an otherwise sequestered house of strange isolation . While JAN DARA includes many sensuous scenes ( the ' first memory ' of Jan Dara is watching his ' father ' in an indiscretion with his beloved aunt ) , these scenes are photographed so sensitively that they become studies like Kama Sutra paintings rather than being vulgar . The story makes many flashbacks and flash-forwards and keeping the various actors at the different ages of these sequences straight can be problematic . The cast is uniformly excellent and credible , even when they may be too evil to watch ! Here is an example of Oriental films that don't rely on choreographic martial arts to sustain interest . In that way it is similar to the beautiful SPRING , SUMER , AUTUMN , WINTER , SPRING , and for those who enjoy the subtle arts of Asia this film is a must . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Serendipity and the Resulting Emotional Changes	Anthony Minghella is an artist of distinction . His current successful role as writer and director of BREAKING AND ENTERING once again demonstrates how subtlety and economy can enhance the impact of a well-devised and well-paced strange story , leaving the viewer with a true sense of dramatic climax and awe . This is one of those under the radar films that is as fine as any before the public in the past year . Will Francis ( Jude Law ) is a successful landscape architect who with his partner Sandy ( Martin Freeman ) has just begun a ' community restoration ' project in the down and out King's Crossing area of London . Housed in an old building in that area from which the project will develop , they work with the finest of computers and business equipment - an easy target for locals to vandalize . Will lives with the Swedish American Liv ( Robin Wright Penn ) and her autistic young daughter Bea ( Poppy Rogers ) in a relationship that after 10 years has grown stale : the friction results in retreating into silence instead of communication . After two burglaries at the business occur , thefts that include Will's own laptop with all of his personal data , Will and Sandy begin nightly watches , hoping to catch the thieves . In this seedy area Will befriends an immigrant hooker Oana ( a brilliant Vera Farmiga ) while Sandy defends an accused cleaning girl immigrant Erika ( Caroline Chikezie ) until the two see two young boys breaking and entering on night . The lads are teenage Bosnian immigrants , good kids who are going with the flow of finding the means of survival in London . The boys , Miro ( Rafi Gavron ) and Zoran ( Ed Westwick ) , escape the chase , though Will's pursuit results in his discovering Miro's home in the projects . Knowing that Miro's mother Amira ( Juliette Binoche ) takes in tailoring , Will drops off a jacket to be mended and is attracted to the beautiful unattached Amira with whom he gradually begins an affair . Meanwhile Liv is in therapy with Rosemary ( Juliet Stevenson ) and attempts to include resistant Will in hopes of healing their domestic chaos . Their relationship is on the brink of dissolution , both adults are fatigued by the management of Bea , a situation which encourages Will to increase his participation in Bea's care , a decision which leads to an accident for Bea at Will's place of work . Eventually Miro and Zoran are captured by the police ( Ray Winstone ) and Amira is so devastated by the possible incarceration of her son that she takes measures with Will to secure herself . It is the manner in which the ' crime ' by the boys triggers the breaking and entering of each of the lives , crippled by shells of defense , which serves as the sensitive resolution of the story . The cast is perfection , providing plum roles for Law , Binoche , Penn , Farmiga , Winstone , Freeman and newcomer Gavron , each creating credible characters who though with less than pure lives completely drawn our empathy . Minghella's story is important and entertaining and the filming techniques are bold and innovative . Gabriel Yared provides yet another beautiful musical score and the added featurettes are informative - far better than the usual DVD fillers . A superb film , this . Grady Harp
A Quiet Little Film about the Isolation of Aging	Writer Marcos Bernstein ( ' Central Station ' ) takes a step forward as Director of yet another soulful and touching film about aging and the loneliness and isolation that surrounds our older generations . Together with Melanie Dimantas he has written a story that is not only intriguing as a suspense tale , but it is also one of the most moving love stories between older people that has graced the screen . Regina ( Fernanda Montenegro ) lives alone with her devoted dog Betina , her only visits to family are with her grandson : she rarely sees her son's home as her son is still friends with her estranged husband . Regina has found a hobby to fill her days - she has become a volunteer police informant for the Copacabano police , visiting bars where drug deals are rampant and then reporting the findings to the police . Her high-rise apartment faces another like apartment across the street and she spends her idle hours watching her neighbors through binoculars , not in a snoopy way but as a manner of relieving her boredom of solitude . One evening she observes an older man give an lethal injection to his wife , and thinking she has observed a murder she notifies the police who respond , only to discover the older man is Judge Carmago ( Raul Cortez ) and thus dismiss the intrusion as a false call by Regina . Regina knows what she saw and despite the abuse she receives from the policeman Alcides ( Luiz Carlos Persy ) she is intent on investigating the ' crime ' . She stalks Carmago and eventually Carmago confronts her behavior , stating that if she has questions of him she should join him for lunch or dinner . The two lonely older people gradually get to know each other and a relationship ensues that surprises them both . Regina's shell of emotional protection is cracked and the two explore the vulnerability of feelings usually reserved for the young . How Regina's life is altered by this adventure makes for an illuminating finale to the film . Fernanda Montenegro is luminous as Regina . She is an actress in her late seventies who is able to invoke tremendous responses from an audience , so multifaceted are her talents . Raul Cortez likewise is a veteran actor ( his first film was in 1957 ) who has depth of character and technique that makes his role gleam . This film is a brave one , a film unafraid to address delicate issues about love among the elderly and achieve a stunning level of dignity and discretion that binds the viewer to the story . The atmosphere is enhanced by the minimal music score from Guilherme Bernstein Seixas and by the clever cinematography of Toca Seabra . This is a lovely film that should appeal to all audiences , especially those who fell in love with Fernanda Montenegro in ' Central Station ' . Grady Harp
One of the Finest Films of the Immigrant Experience Ever Made !	Ali Selim is a gifted artist and one that surely will continue to create magical films such as his masterpiece SWEET LAND in the coming years . Selim wrote the screenplay based on Will Weaver's perfect little short story ' A Gravestone Made of Wheat ' , found the perfect setting for his tale of the trials of immigrants entering America searching for the American Dream in the spacious grandeur of Nebraska , and selected a cast to bring life to his story that simply could not be better . This film MUST be considered among the best at the time of awards . Though the time of the story is 1920 , the film opens much later in slow motion , only soft music comes from the soundtrack , yet the actors are mouthing words that make us realize we are witnessing the passing of someone important . When the characters begin to speak , the story of remembering what love and trials and experiences years ago were like , transporting us to a station house where we meet Inge ( Elizabeth Reaser ) , a Norwegian / German girl who has come to America to marry a man she has never met , a man who will provide her with home , marriage , and a chance to start afresh . Her ' intended ' is Olaf ( Tim Guinee ) who is shy and unsure of how to make Inge a part of his life : Inge's German background makes her suspect to the townsfolk who fear the course of Germany's power in WW I . Inge speaks no English but has been learning through a common phrase book . Olaf's friend Frandsen ( a brilliant role for Alan Cumming ) , married to Brownie ( Alex Kingston ) with at least eight children already , helps Inge connect with Olaf . The intended marriage cannot take place with the minister ( John Heard ) because Inge can't speak English and because she is German . . . And there begins the trial that places Inge and Olaf in a home unmarried and fending for themselves . Through extraordinary acts of love bestowed upon Frandsen and Brownie ( threatened with eviction from their farm ) Inge and Olaf gain the respect of the townspeople and gradually are appreciated for the strong couple they are . They are married , and have children , and the story proceeds to the point where it started , where the aged Inge ( now played with humility , grace and style by Lois Williams ) carries on the integrity of the departed Olaf and brings closure to her family's disparities through her bonding to her son Lars ( Patrick Heusinger and later Stephen Pelinski ) . Both Inge and Olaf wished to be buried in the soil of their land that raised the wheat that gave them material and spiritual sustenance . And it is done . There are numerous fine cameo roles portrayed by Ned Beatty , Paul Sand , Jodie Markell , Sage Kermes , Kirsten Frantzich , Stephen Yoakam , and Karen Landry . But the equal ' stars ' of this breathtaking ( and heart-taking ) film are cinematographer David Tumblety and musical scoring by Thomas Lieberman and Mark Orton . The end credits are screen on the horizon of the farm with the young Inge and Olaf dancing , a touch that places Ali Selim in the ranks with the finest of filmmakers of the day . This is a brilliant , must-see film . Grady Harp , December 06
Human Sexuality and the Spectrum of Love	Sébastien Lifshitz ( ' Come Undone ' , ' The Crossing ' ) is one of the more sensitive directors to arrive on the scene in some time . He molds stories about the periphery of mankind and creates deeply human dramas without the clutter and noise that often dampen the effect of intense emotional experiences . He is intelligent , a fine writer and observer and a man unafraid to take chances : all but two of the actors in WILD SIDE are amateurs with no experience in front of the camera and from these neophytes he extracts brilliant performances . He is an artist to watch . Stéphanie ( Stéphanie Michelini ) is a transsexual who makes her living through prostitution on the streets of Paris . She is a gentle , soft-spoken , tender person who is making her way in life as the being she has selected to present . She meets Djamel ( Yasmine Belmadi ) a handsome bisexual North African young man who likewise makes his living turning tricks in the subways and streets of Paris , another person estranged from his family as is Stéphanie . Yet another young man Mikhail ( Edouard Nikitine ) estranged from his family in Russia meets Stéphanie and falls in love with her . The three outsiders from a true ménage a trois , all three genetically males , all three in need of love and belonging and capable of sharing love equally within the trio . When Stéphanie learns her estranged mother ( Josiane Stoléru ) is critically ill , she travels to her rural French neighborhood of her youth together with Mikhail and Djamel and it is this confrontation with her past and the way she pieces her life together with the love of Mikhail and Djamel that creates the beauty of this film . Though there are innumerable reasons for recommending this film the main one remains the manner in which Lifshitz has taken a script written with his long-term associate and fellow professor at La Fémis ( Paris ) Stéphane Bouquet about a marginalized portion of society and crafted one of the more touching love stories that needs and receives no apologies . Stéphanie ( the actress is a transsexual in real life and has never acted before ) is presented not as an oddity but as just a human being for whom life has dealt some challenges . We see her in the opening scenes fully nude with the lovely body of a female that happens to also have male genitalia . The isolation of Stéphanie's life is shown from the beginning in a scene where a group of transsexuals listen tearfully as a singer ( Antony Hegarty ) sings a tender ballad ' I fell in love with a beautiful dead boy . . . but was he a girl or a boy ? ' . This quiet manner pervades the film . Mikhail is likewise played by an unknown inexperienced actor and plumbs the depths of his lonely Russian émigré with gently nuanced humility . Djamel and Stephanie's mother are played by actors with whom Lifshitz has worked before and their superlative work helps coax the best performances from the neophytes . The breathtaking cinematography is by Agnès Godard , a genius for creating atmosphere and mood , equally successful in the cramped environs where the sex for money acts are performed as well as in the beauty of the Parisian streets and the French rural countryside . The subtle music score by Jocelyn Pook is variations by a string quartet and harp and very well composed . The DVD gratefully includes and interview with Lifshitz and for once the information shared is extremely beneficial to the enjoyment of the film . Because audiences in general have difficulty with trans / homosexual love scenes this film will probably never receive the recognition it deserves . But for those who long for the power of truly fine independent films , this film is as fine as they come - in story , in direction , in acting , in cinematography and , most important , in honesty . It is a jewel of a movie . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
The Silences within the Psyche of a Life in Transition	' De battre mon coeur s'est arrêté ' ( ' The Beat that my Heart Skipped ' ) is another superb and delicate character-driven film from French writer / director Jacques Audiard ( ' Read My Lips ' ) and his collaborator Tonino Benacquista . How this director can take such potentially fragile subjects and create enormously powerful and indelible characters would indicate that he is one of cinema's truly important artists . The story evolves as Thomas Seyr ( Romain Duris ) is seen as a member of a real estate scam working with smarmy associates who buy and sell buildings at the expense and eviction of poor tenants . The work is distasteful but Thomas is following the lead of his father Robert ( Niels Arestrup ) , a man on the skids who depends on Thomas to do his ' collections ' . Thomas loathes the work but is devoted to his rundown father . We discover that Thomas ' mother , a former concert pianist , is dead when Thomas encounters his old piano teacher who urges him to practice despite his ten year absence from playing and to audition for a new career . A light of hope goes on in Thomas ' psyche and he is lead to a Chinese immigrant pianist Miao Lin ( Linh Dan Pham ) who takes him on as a pupil to prepare him for his anticipated audition . As Thomas practices , his world of crime does not abate and he is intermittently pulled away from his passion for the piano by his old partners as well as his father's continuing need for his ' dirty services ' . He is torn between the life he has been leading and the promises of a career with his mother's ( and his ) passion for beauty in music . When the partition tenuously separating these dual lives is broken , Thomas struggles to find his way back to music . The ending is unexpected and keeps in step with the verismo of the screenplay . Romain Duris is a major talent and delivers the kind of performance that indicates he is becoming a powerhouse of an actor . But the real star of the film is the director who knows how to relate a glimpse of a man's life in subtle , quiet ways despite the accompanying background of violence . It is a delicate balance and Jacques Audiard makes it work . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Living on the Rug under which We Sweep Our Guilt	Michael Haneke ( ' Le Temps du loup ' , ' La Pianiste ' , etc ) is a writer / director who respects the minds of his viewers . Nothing he creates is simple , instantly understandable , full of Hollywood endings , nor does he answer the questions he poses . He merely gives us the visual evidence of dysfunction , allows us to watch it without explaining it , and in doing so he makes the viewer an integral part of the film experience . CACHE is a tough movie , one that requires total concentration on the part of the viewer , and one that presents the secrets and guilt of the characters by allowing us to watch instead of depending on their explanations of their etiologies or resolutions . Watching CACHE is an exciting and stimulating experience - and at the same time it is a film so impressive that it lingers in the mind long after the film is over . Georges Laurent ( Daniel Auteuil ) and his wife Anne ( Juliette Binoche ) are successful professionals , living with their prepubescent son Pierrot ( Lester Makedonsky ) in a Parisian home of comfortable means . There is some tension between them ( Haneke likes to explore relationships subtly ) but their lives have reached an acceptable , successful routine . A videotape is left on their doorstep : the tape merely shows hours of a camera filming the front of their house . Further tapes arrive ( Georges ' childhood home , a corridor , etc ) as well as papers and cards with a stick figure smeared with red . They contact the police who do nothing but Georges and Anne become paranoid and fearful that they are being stalked , that Pierrot is at risk . Georges has a hunch who the perpetrator might be , but does not elect to share that information with Anne , a fact that infuriates her . She seeks solace through a mutual friend Pierre ( Daniel Duval ) who offers her understanding and the suggestion to the viewer that Anne may have a secret about her relationship to Pierre - and Pierrot questions his mother's secrecy . But Georges ' hunch involves one Majid ( Maurice Benichou ) , an Algerian man Georges ' mother ( Annie Girardot ) had wanted to adopt after the 1961 slaughter of Algerians in Paris ( another dark secret of Parisians that no one cares to address ) , and Georges had talked his parents out of adopting the child who would have been a challenge to his territory as an only child . Georges has nightmares about a childhood encounter with Majid , decides to find him and confront him with the accusation that Majid is sending the tapes . Majid's son ( Walid Afkir ) is privy to the past and to the detective work Georges is undertaking , and when Georges final confrontation with Majid ends in a tragedy , the son confronts Georges as being responsible for his father's wretched life . The perpetrator of the videos is not explained , the schism between Georges and Anne is not addressed , Pierrot's transient disappearance is not fully explained - and the film ends as we , the audience , sit and watch a view of Pierrot's school as parents come to pick up their children . There is no ending . Nothing is resolved for us : we are left to make our own conclusions about guilt , about the sickness that guilt creases our lives and molds our psyches , about the need or importance of communication , of relationships . . . it is all in our hands to decipher what Haneke has put before us . Each member of the cast is excellent , creating a tension almost as unbearable as the dilemma of the tapes with which we are constantly subjected . Life is an ennui , broken only by particles of our past and fragments of our actions . This may not be a movie for the general audience , but for those who are willing to invest time with a master artist of film , the journey is extraordinarily rewarding . In French with English subtitles and considerable disturbing violence . HIGHLY RECOMMENDED . Grady Harp
Re-visiting U . S . MARSHALS : An Appreciation	There are times when re-viewing a film that seemed powerful at the first viewing can be even better on the second time around . Such is the case for this viewer with US MARSHALS , a film made in 1998 but one that remains one of the finest of the genre of chase thrillers . The story is well-known to everyone by now : Chief Deputy Marshal Samuel Gerard ( Tommy Lee Jones ) is accompanying a planeful of criminals to maximum security - among them is Mark J . Sheridan ( Wesley Snipes ) who is actually the most wanted and dangerous of the crew . The plane crashes and Sheridan escapes , beginning what amounts to one of the most harrowing and dare devilish chases on film . Along the way the US Marshals ( including Joe Pantoliano , Daniel Roebuck , Tom Wood , LaTanya Richardson , and Kate Nelligan ) with a ' help ' from a Special Agent ( Robert Downey Jr . ) help track Sheridan only to find that Sheridan is himself a special agent etc etc etc . The action scenes are intense an beautifully captured and edited . The ensemble acting is first rate . There is some fine love interest thanks to the presence of the beautiful Irène Jacob and some intrigue involving Michael Paul Chan as a Chinese attaché . The only flaw in the script is that old Hollywood problem of assigning a major star like Robert Downey Jr . to what seems like a minor role , a dead giveaway as to who the real bad guy is going to be . But in all this film is a tense , well-paced and photographed and scored action flick that wears well with time . Grady Harp
Childhood Innocence Abused By Political Strife	' La Lengua de las mariposas ' ( BUTTERFLY ) is a small miracle of a film , one of those magical experiences that reminds us about the beauty of life but also about the realities of living in a world ruled by politics and adversity and how all of that affects the vulnerable child . The Spanish title refers to the tongue of the butterfly that must trust the throat of a flower to deliver its nectar and at the same time the flower must trust the deliverer of its procreation . And there is much to be found in that brief title . The time is 1936 in the region of Galicia in Spain when the country is on the verge of a civil war . We meet Moncho ( Manuel Lozano , an amazing child actor ) who is also known as Sparrow , who lives with his tailor father and housewife mother and older brother Andrés ( Alexis de los Santos ) who plays the saxophone . Moncho is to begin school and is terrified of being ridiculed because of the breathing apparatus he must carry to treat his asthma . But to school he goes and there he is taken under the wing of the kind old teacher Don Gregorio ( the brilliant Fernando Fernán Gómez ) who gently introduces Moncho to the finer things in education - the observation of nature and the miracles of life . Moncho makes friends with Roque ( Tamar Novas ) and together the lads discover some of the realities of life : they observe a bizarre sexual encounter which later will reveal much about Moncho's family , and they begin to learn about the political adversity that colors the lives of the conservative Catholic little community . Andrés falls in love with a Chinese girl and therein lies another complex lesson in life . Eventually the political life comes to a head and the entry of Franco's regime divides the people between republicanism and communism , and Moncho must face the cruelties that befall his mentor as he must side with his family . And the effect of the loving , meaningful relationship between teacher and pupil is left for the viewer to decide . As directed by José Luis Cuerda and written by Cuerda and Rafael Azcona based on stories by Galician writer and journalist Manuel Rivas , the film , while always a work of great beauty and tenderness , feels a bit fragmented at times , probably due to the fact that separate stories were combined in one film , leaving portions of some sidebars with an incomplete resolution . But the wonder of the film lies in the acting by both Fernando Fernán Gómez and Manuel Lozano who together create a memorable bond that already has become a cinematic gold standard . The cinematography by Javier G . Salmones and the simple but note perfect musical score by Alejandro Amenábar set standards for Spanish film-making . This is a story to inform and to remind us how we as human beings are prone to follow external influences more than obeying our hearts and caring for our souls . BUTTERFLY paints a vivid portrait of Spain on the knife of revolution and the effects such changes can make in the eyes of a child . It is a brilliant little movie . In Spanish and Latin with English subtitles . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Triumph on Every Level !	LACKAWANNA BLUES is a fine stage play by Ruben Santiago-Hudson and an even finer film as the author adapted his own life story for the screen . This brilliant film ignites the screen with rich colors , fine music , brilliant editing , superb direction by George C . Wolfe , and a cast so stunning that they make an encore viewing compulsory ! Yes , it is just that good . The story is based on the author's life as the child ' Junior ' ( Marcus Carl Franklin ) raised in the inimitable home of soulfully empathetic Rachel " Nanny " Crosby ( S . Epatha Merkerson ) , a lady who devoted her life to aiding the disenfranchised by transporting them from the South , from mental hospitals , and from the streets to Lackawanna , New York . The boy recalls all the lessons he learned about life from the inhabitants of the house - odd characters with painful pasts - and from the disintegration of his racially mixed biological family rescued by Nanny . The myriad characters of the home are too numerous to outline but they are portrayed by some of the finest actors in the business : Terrence Howard , Rosie Perez , Mos Def , the beautiful Carmen Ejogo , Louis Gossett Jr . , Jeffrey Wright , Ernie Hudson , Charlayne Woodward , Jimmy Smits , Patricia Wettig , Macy Gray , Liev Schreiber , Kathleen Chalfant , Lou Myers , Hill Harper - the list goes on and on . In the course of the film we are introduced to the cruelties of racism , the history of desegregation , the dynamics of drug abuse and violence , the infectious joy of African American music contributions to our musical culture , and the courage of one fine woman who battled all the hardships the world can dish out to maintain the dignity of those with whom she came into contact . S . Epatha Merkerson is wholly submerged in this role , a role she makes shine like a beacon of reason in a world of chaos . She offers one of the most stunning performances of the past years , and had this film been released in the theaters instead of as an HBO movie , she without a doubt would add the Oscar to place along side her Golden Globe award . The entire cast is exceptional and Wolfe handles the acting and the story like a master : like riffs in a jazz piece , he pastes tiny moments of conversation with each character and Junior along with flashes of scenes from the story with the matrix of dance fests at the local clubs brimming over the top with incredible blues , jazz , dancing , and joy . The production crew has mounted this little miracle of a picture with extreme care and never for a moment does attention lag from the momentum of the story . Highly Recommended , almost Compulsory Viewing ! Grady Harp
Straight or Gay Relationships : Just a Question of Love	' Juste une question d'amour ' is a small film made for French TV that is one of the most sensitive , unbiased examinations of how the ' coming out ' of gay men impacts not only the one who bravely steps forward but also his friends both male and female and his family . So often films such as this fall under the title ' Queer Cinema ' and that is as unfair to the audience as it is to the writer and director of the film . This film is meant for the general public and should it receive higher profile in publicity , many longstanding prejudices would at least have the chance to be questioned by both gays and straights . Laurent ( Cyrille Thouvenin ) lives with his parents Jeanne ( Danièle Denie ) and Pierre ( Idwig Stephane ) behind the family Pharmacy . Laurent is secretly gay though he lives with his best girlfriend Carole ( Caroline Veyt ) who adores him and wholly accepts his sexuality and is content to serve as a ' front ' for Laurent's closeted role with his parents . He is not doing well studying agriculture , primarily due to the fact the his close cousin Marc died recently and had been disowned by his aunt and uncle when he announced he was gay . Laurent can only see that he must keep his secret so that his parents ( whom he loves deeply ) will not be ' injured ' by his admitting his sexuality . His marks in school are so poor that he is instructed to do an internship in field agriculture to raise his academic standing . His assigned tutor is Cédric ( Stéphan Guérin-Tillié ) who lives an openly gay life with his warmly understanding and loving mother Emma ( Eva Darlan ) in an idyllic garden setting that also serves as Cédric's agricultural research lab . Though instantly attracted to each other , Laurent maintains his closeted life until Cédric reveals his affection : the two become happy , passionate lovers . All goes well until Cédric insists that Laurent be in an open relationship , a state that would demand that Laurent inform his parents of his preferences . Laurent , fearful that his parents would disown him as his cousin was treated , flees and it is only after Cédric's mother Emma , a woman who loves the fact that her son is in a healthy relationship and longs for Laurent to allow his parents to love him for who truly he is , takes it upon herself to confront Laurent's parents with the truth . The manner in which this initial trauma affects each of the characters forms the platform for the resolution of the story . This is a brave film , very intelligent and sensitive and informative , and is made all the better by the excellent cast . Each actor gives characterizations that are completely credible and three-dimensional : none of the too familiar stereotypes are here . It is to the credit of director Christian Faure and his co-writer Annick Larboulette that JUST A QUESTION OF LOVE succeeds on every level . This is one of the most quietly powerful stories about same sex challenges to be addressed on the screen . Highly Recommended for ALL audiences . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp , May 05
A Small but Powerful Film about Coping with Challenges	Beginning with a smart script by Jeff Pope and Ian Puleston-Davies ( the latter a fine actor who happens to be afflicted with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder ) and under the inordinately delicate direction of Adrian Shergold , DIRTY FILTHY LOVE is one of the more sensitive examinations of two challenges that affect the lives of many people throughout the world : Tourette's Syndrome ( complete with tics and uncontrollable inappropriate outbursts of foul language , noises , shouts ) , and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder ( lives complicated by the need for order imposed by the patient's mind as a series of repeated behaviors that protect the person from the terror of living in a chaotic world ) . Wrongly titled ( a title that probably prevents many people from seeing this little miracle of a film ) and incorrectly billed as a comedy ( which is most certainly not ) , DIRTY FILTH LOVE is one of those films that slipped by us all without a theatrical release but now is thankfully available on DVD . It deserves full attention . Mark Furness ( played with superlative skill by Michael Sheen ) is an architect on leave due to his progressive illnesses ( see above ) and who is first seen in the throes of beginning a trial separation from his beloved wife Stevie ( Anastasia Griffith ) who can no longer live under the same roof with Mark's ' inexplicable ' behavior patterns . Left alone with the anxiety over his surfacing deterioration from his physical challenges , Mark finds solace with his close friends who also tire of his behavior and insist he seek medical help . In the waiting room of a deaf-eared doctor Mark ' meets ' Charlotte ( the astonishingly fine character actor Shirley Henderson ) and Charlotte , who happens to suffer from both Obsessive Compulsive Disorder as well as trichotillomania ( uncontrolled pulling out hair strands to the point of baldness ) , senses a man who needs help . Charlotte tells Mark of a group therapy session for people with similar problems and Mark , out of desperation , joins the group ( a fascinating group of actors imbuing their disease states without the least sign of parody ) . It is obvious rather early on that Charlotte is attracted to Mark , but Mark's life is one directed toward making himself acceptable to Stevie . With a powerful confrontation at a very social party Mark realizes he suffers from a disease state he has had since birth and the only one who really cares about his dilemma and understands his turmoil is Charlotte : a strange love affair is finally recognized . Scripts such as this are all too rare and when brought to the screen with the exceptional acting and direction rendered by this crew they become films that should be required viewing . In every way these are brilliant performances by Michael Sheen and by Shirley Henderson , yet because the film never received a theatrical release in this country ( probably due to the factors mentioned above ) it will be ignored by the Oscars . But awards are only momentary returns for art pieces of this caliber and this one is destined for a long shelf life . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Brilliant Film Examines the Criminal Mind and the Forces of Alzheimer's Disease	' De Zaak Alzheimer ' or ' The Alzheimer Case ' or the US titled ' The Memory of a Killer ' is a stunningly well written , directed , acted , and photographed film from Belgium . Though termed by director Erik Van Looy as a ' police thriller ' , this gripping drama is so much more : this is the story of organized crime , of the men and women who fight crime , and of a man afflicted with progressive Alzheimer's Disease which alters his entire view of his life of crime . It is a police thriller with a soul and as such is one of the finest films of this genre this viewer has ever seen . Angelo Ledda ( the enormously gifted Jan Decleir ) is a hit man sent to Antwerp to eliminate some important ' clients ' . He is hesitant to take on the job as he understands that his mind is being slowly altered by the effects of Alzheimer's disease . But go he must and after his first successful ' kill ' , he is ordered to kill a young girl , an order he cannot follow , and an order , which with his failing memory and abilities acknowledged , he decides to turn on his employers and rid the world of those big crime magnates . The Flemish police , lead by two superb minds - Vincke ( Koen De Bouw ) and Verstuyft ( Werner De Smedt ) - follow the path of corpses that lay in Ledda's wake of destroying the important heads of crime in Antwerp . Ledda becomes strangely connected and committed to the two police , in reality helping them by remote stance do their job , but the movie is a cat and mouse chase between the police and Ledda and one whose ending , though somewhat predictable , manages to tear at the heart of the audience as the unwinding of Ledda's mind by Alzheimer's disease results in a metamorphosis of a killer's mentality to that of a quasi-hero . Brilliantly photographed by Danny Elsen and accompanied by an electrifying musical score by Stephen Warbeck THE MEMORY OF A KILLER is a taut , tense , unnerving , and fascinating tale told to perfection by Carl Joos ' screenplay based on Jef Geeraerts ' novel . There isn't a weak link here - every actor is superb and the performance by Jan Decleir is the stuff of which legends are made . Recommended without reservation . In Dutch and French and Flemish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Disintegration of a Family	BLACK IRISH is one of those little Independent films that manage to give more to the audience than the extreme constrictions of time and budget would suggest . Writer / director Brad Gunn ( his first film ) manages to tell a story about an Irish family from South Boston that is sincere , realistic , poignant , and profound , and though he worked with a small budget and a shooting schedule of 22 days , he has produced a fine little gem of a film . The McKay family has problems : father Desmond ( Brendan Glesson ) lacks work and spends most of his time drinking beer and watching baseball on TV , having been a promising baseball player as a youngster but nipped by the Vietnam War into glum lethargy ; mother Margaret ( Melissa Leo ) resents the shadow of the man she married and works as a social worker to support her family ; daughter Kathleen ( Emily VanKamp ) is pregnant , unwed , and when denied the choice of abortion by her mother's strong Catholicism is determined to have the child by herself , giving it the loving home she feels she has been denied ; son Terry ( Tom Guiry ) is a tortured delinquent who is a gang member and always in conflict with the law ; and youngest son Cole ( the excellent young 20-year-old Michael Angarano of ' One Last Thing ' , ' Man in the Chair ' , ' Snow Angels ' , ' Lords of Dogtown ' , ' Seabiscuit ' , etc ) is conflicted by wanting to be a priest versus wanting to be a professional baseball player - he is the good kid and the last hope of his parents . Terry tricks Cole into accompanying a house break-in and the trouble begins . The financial crisis at home drives Cole to get a job in a restaurant , and drives Desmond to menial work shining shoes . The family will support Kathleen's pregnancy , but that strips the income to the point that Cole must leave his Catholic school to be in public school , and while that seems to dash his hopes for a career in baseball , the coach at his public school ( Finn Curtin ) acknowledges Cole's talent and promises a future . Terry's lifestyle as a hoodlum presents increasing problems and at one point Cole gathers the courage to confront Terry during a robbery plot at Cole's work place and Terry is seriously wounded . We discover a hidden fact about Desmond that explains some of his sociopath behavior to his family and it is this discovery , coinciding with Terry's gunshot injury and Kathleen's tough life as an unwed working pregnant girl , that pulls the family unit back together . If the plot sound like soap opera rest assured it is not . This is an intensely realistic examination of a fragile Irish Catholic family striving to makes sense of a world that is increasingly chaotic . All of the actors are excellent , but the extraordinary sensitivity and skill of young Michael Angarano make this a film to cherish . And Brad Gann is assuredly a talent to watch ! Very highly recommended . Grady Harp
One of the Finest Examples of Filmed History	Neil Jordan always manages to make films that are edgy , pungent , and intensely accurate in defining the motivation of his characters ( ' The Crying Game ' , ' The Butcher Boy ' , ' The End of the Affair ' , etc ) and in MICHAEL COLLINS Jordan has not only directed but also wrote a docudrama that stands with the finest . It is simply a major achievement in cinematic art . The brief life of Michael Collins ( he was killed when he was but 31 years of age ) completely changed the history of Ireland and the British rule of that country . Collins introduced the democracy of the Irish Republic and ended a long era of fighting and rebellion . A man of passionate convictions and mesmerizing idealism and compassion , Collins ' memory is still regarded by both the Irish and the British as a 20th century hero . The brilliant script is placed in the exceptionally competent hands of Liam Neeson as Collins with top flight support from Stephan Rea , Aidan Quinn , Alan Rickman , Jonathan Rhys-Meyers , Charles Dance , and yes , even Julia Roberts ! The fighting scenes are so well done they become artistic , due primarily to the constantly excellent cinematography by Chris Menges . Elliot Goldenthal's musical score ( with some added moments by Sinéad O'Connor ) not only enhances the film but stands alone as a fine orchestral work . Truly on of the best historic films ever released . Grady Harp
A Potentially Silly Premise for a Story becomes a Touching , Tender Film	Were anyone to suggest that a ' romance ' between a guy and a blowup doll could become one of the more sensitive films of the year , it would be cause for derision - that is , before viewing LARS AND THE REAL GIRL . The improbable story was written by Nancy Oliver ( the writer of many episodes of the TV series ' Six Feet Under ' ) and directed by Craig Gillespie who gathered a particularly strong cast of actors to present this examination of compassion and love for an emotionally injured young man by small town folks , reminding us that caring for each other is still a highly regarded value . Lars Lindstrom ( Ryan Gosling ) survived a tough childhood only to become a loner terrified of emotional and tactile contact . He lives in the garage of his deceased parents ' home while his brother Gus ( Paul Schneider ) and pregnant sister-in-law Karin ( Emily Mortimer ) live in the main house . Despite Karin's pleadings to be part of the family , Lars prefers to keep to himself . At his job his co-workers include Margo ( Kelli Garner ) , who is more than a little attracted to the quiet and strangely distant Lars , and a fellow who finds ' life-size love dolls ' on the internet . Lars orders one of the dolls and when ' Bianca ' arrives , Lars finally has a girlfriend to share his loneliness . He introduces Bianca to Gus and Karin who find the situation strange , but at the same time see the happiness in Lars that has been missing . They encourage Lars and Bianca to see a doctor Margo ( Patricia Clarkson ) who plays along with the concept that Lars finds Bianca real , and encourages Gus and Karin to be supportive . As it ends up the entire little town accepts Bianca and she is introduced to doing good deeds and be a vital part of the town , all through the kindness of people who love the ' delusional ' Lars and care only for his happiness . How Lars gradually finds his way into the real world and copes with the understanding of his need for Bianca , the story comes to a tender ending , one that never for a moment feels like a sellout but maintains the dignity of all of the characters in the story . This is a fine and thoughtful exploration of the needs we all have for understanding , compassion , and acceptance , and while there are some very humorous moments in this well - written story , the overall message is one of gentle love . Ryan Gosling is so fine an actor that he makes this rather complex character understandable and gains our empathy . The supporting cast is equally excellent - especially Patricia Clarkson , Emily Mortimer and Paul Schneider . Highly recommended viewing , this is a DVD many will want to own for repeated viewings . Grady Harp
What is a Saint ?	Marco Bellocchio is brave thinker and a fine writer who is unafraid to take on controversial subjects concerning Catholicism in the country where the Vatican watches everything very carefully . His work has been labeled ' blasphemous ' but it seems Bellocchio is more interested in stirring the thoughts of his viewers than in defaming religion . MY MOTHER'S SMILE , ( Il sorriso di mia madre ) or ' Ora di religione ' ( The Religion Hour ) as it is also known in Italy , is a sophisticated look at family , personal spiritual concepts , and honesty in a setting of peculiar circumstances that make for a uniquely fascinating film . Painter Ernesto Picciafuocco's ( Sergio Castellitto ) is an atheist , separated from his wife Irene ( Jacqueline Lustig ) who has custody of his son . His son Leonardo ( Alberto Mondini ) has , for reasons unknown to Ernesto , become interested in religion and Irene informs Ernesto when he comes to pick up the child that he has been heard speaking to God . What follows this disclosure is a father / son sensitive discussion about Ernesto's atheism and his son's need to believe in an afterlife and a God . Disturbed by his son's state of mind , Ernesto is further challenged by a visit from a Vatican priest who informs Ernesto that his mother is about to be canonized ! Ernesto is apparently the last to learn of this turn in family events ( being an atheist ) and discovers the family is pushing to have the canonization hurried in order to raise their status ( and money ) in Italy's social realm . Ernesto cannot comprehend why his mother should be made a saint as she has been less of a mother than most : her candidacy is based on the fact that as she was murdered by her own son Egidio ( Donato Placido ) she forgave him , making her a martyr . And apparently a family friend Filippo Argenti ( Gianni Schicchi ) prayed to the mother and was healed , making her a miracle worker ! The family and the church need Ernesto's witness to the incidents for the canonization to be complete and it is here that the conflicts rise to the boiling point with a duel , a physical affair with a religion teacher , and confrontations between Ernesto and his brother Egidio and his family and the warriors of the church . Ernesto's liberal bent marks his journey of self-investigation that explores his morality and honesty by means of his art as he physically alters significant edifices of the old order of Rome into the deconstructed fantasies of his paintings . Bellocchio frames his complex story with magnificent photography and a cast of actors who are not only credible in their roles but also create a sense of reality versus surrealism . Sergio Castellitto is brilliant as the tortured artist who must make a decision between his family's needs and his own belief system . The music that accompanies this film is composed by Riccardo Giagni who extrapolates curious but excellent excerpts from John Adams ' " Harmonielehre " , Vinicio Capossela's " Che cossè l'amor " from " Camera a sud " , Gia Kancheli's " Psalm 23 " from ' Exil ' , Aaron Jay Kernis's " Musica Celestis " , and John Tavener's " . . . Depart in Peace " and " Tears of the Angels " - one of the more sophisticated musical scores on record . MY MOTHER'S SMILE requires a lot from the viewer : to stay abreast with the many characters and to follow the maze of interactions takes a lot of concentration . But the overall effect of the film is one of great beauty and significant philosophical importance . Worth repeated viewings and highly recommended . In Italian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Certainly One of the Finest Films of the Year !	Eytan Fox ( ' Yossi & Jagger ' , and others ) is an important director to watch . Born in the USA and emigrated to Israel at the age of two , Fox understands the art of cinematic storytelling and in WALK ON WATER he brings this impressive tale of universal and personal forgiveness written by Gal Uchovsky with collaboration by actors Knut Berger and Caroline Peters , and Andreas Struck to the screen with finesse , subtlety , and grace . His in a name to watch . Films dealing with the aftermath of Hitler's annihilation of the Jews and their subsequent formation of the haven Israel have been many and variably successful , primarily because the Jew vs Nazi histories have been so polarized to appeal to all audiences who need to have good guys vs bad guys easily identified for them . This beautiful film refuses to go there , but instead mixes the young people of Germany and Israel in a manner that finally enlightens us as to the process of letting go , of forgiveness in order to move ahead with living . Eyal ( the dashingly handsome and sensitive actor Lior Ashkenazi ) works for the Israeli group headed by Menachem ( Gideon Shemer ) whose life's work it is to track down and kill all remaining Nazi perpetrators of the concentration camps . Eyal is a damaged man , his wife has committed suicide partially because of his job as hired assassin of anti-Israeli people , and he has finally grown weary of Menachem's obsession to exterminate all living Nazis . Yet he is assigned one more ' victim ' , an old man who is the grandfather of two German young people - Pia ( Caroline Peters ) who happily lives in an Israeli kibbutz and her brother Axel ( Knut Berger ) who has come to Israel to plead with his sister to return to Berlin to her estranged parents for her father's birthday . Pia knows of her grandfather's Nazi war crimes and resents that her parents had helped him escape from being tried as a war criminal . Menachem assigns Eyal to be Axel's ' tour guide ' in Israel , hoping to find a path to their grandfather , the war criminal . Axel is gay and during his time with Eyal touring the sites of Israel the two grow warmly as friends , Eyal asking many penetrating questions about Axel's gay lifestyle . Pia , Axel and Eyal become friends and when Pia refuses to join Axel in returning to Berlin for the father's birthday , Eyal ' consents ' to accompany him . Several incidents occur both in Israel and Berlin that bond Eyal and Axel and that unveil some of Eyal's shaky demons of Arab hate , homophobia , and guilt over his wife's suicide . Yet for the first time Eyal has a man with whom he can relate and he grows fond of Axel . In Berlin Eyal is warmly accepted into Axel's vast home . At the birthday party Axel displays his love for Israeli folk dancing as a gift to his father , engendering kind feelings from Eyal . But suddenly the grandfather is wheeled into the room by his attending nurse , repulsing Axel , and Eyal leaves : Meachem has followed him to Berlin and tells Eyal to terminate the old man . Eyal returns to the house and is unable to carryout his task , and the resulting resolution of the ' deed ' and the manner in which Eyal and Axel come together is one of those magic moments of storytelling , one that equates with the miraculous ability to walk on water . The cast is superb , always allowing us to see the hidden corners of intent , motivation , and lasting resentment as well as the opening of the doors of ultimate forgiveness and life . WALK ON WATER is a thriller , an espionage film , an historic moment , and a love story told with richly detailed sensitivity and bravura . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Maddeningly Impossible to Follow : A Terrific Surrealistic Adventure	SYNECDOCHE , NEW YORK is a firecracker display that sets the audience up for a grand epic of adventures then sputters its lovable way through over two hours of loosely connected views of life as we live it - through the eyes of an increasingly physically disabled director Caden Cotard ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) . Trying to summarize what the story is and does is always as risky task when it comes to Charlie Kaufman films and the audience for this work will be decidedly separated between the love it or hate it division . Kaufman manages to address so many issues ( marriage , adultery , joblessness , that thin thread of sanity that keeps actors committed to impossibly complex problematic productions , etc ) that keeping up with the nonlinear story line is challenging at best . But with a cast of characters as finely portrayed by actors such as Samantha Morton , Catherine Keener , Hope Davis , Michelle Williams , Jennifer Jason Leigh et al , the whole crazy film works wonders on the imagination . This is pure entertainment for the sake of entertainment and while Caden Cotard does represent Everyman searching for some semblance of meaning in a universe that makes little sense ( except that death is inevitable ! ) , it is the process more than the dialogue that makes this film such a pleasure to follow . Charlie Kaufman has done it again . . . . Grady Harp
A Powerful , Deeply Moving Examination of the Rwanda Genocide of 1994	To acknowledge the fact that genocides are still active in our supposedly enlightened times is terrifying , yet through films such as BEYOND THE GATES , HOTEL RWANDA , and SOMETIMES IN APRIL we are gradually bring informed about one particular genocide - that occurred in 1994 in Rwanda - and hopefully will make us as a global population more proactive in stemming the possibility of further acts of brutality and disregard of humanity . Writer David Wolstencroft and director Michael Caton-Jones have created one of the most powerfully poignant films about the genocide of the Tsutsi people by the Hutu people and by placing the film exactly where the genocide happened have added an intensely compelling atmosphere to an act that never should have happened . In 1994 , at the Ecole Technique Officielle , a school for the Rwandan children run by Europeans under the tutelage of Father Christopher ( John Hurt ) and with idealistic teachers such as the young Joe ( Hugh Dancy ) , the incipient intertribal rioting between the Hutus and Tsutsis is ' monitored by the impotent United Nations led by Capitaine Delon ( Dominique Horwitz ) . After the current leader of Rwanda is shot down in a helicopter tragedy , the Hutus begin killing the Tsutsi , butchering them with machetes and leaving the bodies to rot in the streets . The Tsutsis flock to the Ecole , looking for asylum and protection , and Father Christopher and Joe do everything in their power to provide food and shelter and safety . One particularly gifted student Marie ( Claire-Hope Ashitey ) works closely with the two men , gaining their admiration and love , and representing the desperate need of the Tsutsis . The UN forces refuse to fire on the invading Hutus and finally evacuate all white Europeans to be flow to safety out of Africa . It is this final abandonment of the Tsutsis that underlies the ensuing slaughter of those who sought help within the Ecole walls . And with showing the decimated Tsutsis the film ends with a few follow-up scenes that are deeply touching and immensely disturbing . It is clear that the film reveals how the world ignored the tragic genocide of 1994 and a more poignant statement has rarely been captured in writing , filming , direction , and acting . John Hurt and Hugh Dancy are brilliant in their roles , but it is the performance of young Claire-Hope Ashitey that rivets our attention : she is a wonder of an actress and deserves awards for her intensely realistic performance . The film's story is already known ( hopefully ) so there can be no spoilers here . And therein lies the agonizing reality that the world stood by and let this happen . Every world citizen should be required to see this powerful film in hopes that such atrocities will be prevented in the future . But then there is now Darfur . . . . . Grady Harp
Dignity and Sensuality : Intoxication	' When you make love to a woman you get revenge for all the things that defeated you in life . ' Few American writers have been able to examine the fear and rage and desperation of aging as eloquently as Philip Roth , and as with another of his novels brought to life on the screen ( ' The Human Stain ' ) , here Nicholas Meyer has beautifully adapted Roth's ' The Dying Animal ' with all the visceral immediacy and poetry of the novel about the terror and compassion of May / December relationships . Isabel Coixnet has managed to guide her gifted set of actors through this story as though it were a ballet . The result is one of the more beautiful ' love stories ' ever filmed . David Kepesh ( Ben Kingsley , in a performance of tremendous power and sensitivity ) is an aging author , teacher and art critic , a man who has not learned the secret of lasting relationships but who retains his animal sex drive despite his passing years : he survives time's passing by a patterned assignation with Carolyn ( Patricia Clarkson ) , an aging successful traveling business woman who drops in for sensual gratification when in town . David's closest friend is Pulitzer prize winning poet George O'Hearn ( Dennis Hopper ) who serves as his alter ego and as his confidant in David's problematic life . Into David's classroom comes Consuela Castillo ( the ravishingly beautiful and gifted Penélope Cruz ) who gains David's focus not only for her radiant beauty but also for her intelligence . Struggling with his advanced years ( David is over thirty years older than Consuela ) , a courtship dance begins and it is the emergence of this romance that forms the story . How Consuela alters David's behavior and his discovery of the need for connection outside of the bedroom is related as a journey through David's mind . The manner in which the transformation changes every member of the story is what makes this film so very memorable . Kingsley is brilliant in this probing examination of the aging man's psyche , Cruz SHOULD have received her Oscar for this performance rather than the film that honored her , Clarkson continues to be one of our best actresses on the screen , Peter Sarsgaard makes a brief but important appearance , and David Hopper manages to step out of his predictable past roles and offer a character of true compassion and finesse . The film is magnificently photographed ( Jean-Claude Larrieu ) and the music score thankfully is almost completely devoted to the works of Erik Satie ( Gnossiennes ) , Beethoven ( Diabelli Variations ) , Vivaldi ( cantatas with Phillipe Jaroussky ) - all edited by the director Isabel Coixnet . It all works well . This is one of the finer films of 2008 and deserves a wide audience of people who love quality film-making . Grady Harp
Remarkable Film the Radiates Intelligence , History and Passion	Rodney Evans has created a wondrous little independent film , that sort of film that is born out of insight , devotion , research , and passion for the story . This is a fine work of art on every level from the research , writing and directing by Evans to the consistently superb cast . The Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s was a period during which African American artists bonded and overcame a doubting world to produce some of the finest work of the past century . Some artists of that period and the years following included Langston Hughes , Zora Neale Hurston , Wallace Thurman , Bruce Nugent and ( stretching the time frame a bit ) James Baldwin and Malcolm X . But the driving force of the intelligentsia of Black America was solidified by the first four who managed to be proudly Back , write about the taboo gay aspects of the community , and come together in the Journal FIRE ! produced by the brilliant Thurman . The film opens in contemporary times with Perry ( Anthony Mackie ) as a young gay artist , disowned by his family for his sexual preference , living in Harlem as a painter while supporting himself by working for a Homeless Shelter . Perry's friend Marcus ( Larry Gilliard , Jr ) is a poet and a firm supporter of Perry and even is supportive of Perry's involvement with a white young man Jim ( Alex Burns ) who becomes his mate . Perry thrashes about his homophobic environment , struggling with oppression and artistic block , until he encounters an old man at the Shelter who happens to be Bruce Nugent ( Roger Robinson ) , a giant of a poet from another era . Nugent informs Perry about the same issues of being black and gay that he had during the Harlem Renaissance and this is done through a series of effective black and white flashbacks where we meet the young Bruce ( Duane Boutte ) , Langston Hughes ( Daniel Sunjata ) , Wallace Thurman ( Ray Ford ) , and Zora Neale Hurston ( Aunjanue Ellis ) along with clips of the real James Baldwin , Malcolm X etc . It is this circle of continuity , relating historical social problems and artistic successes between the old and the present Harlem , which brings this film such resonance . The bond of brotherhood as personified by Perry and the older Bruce is pure magic , especially as portrayed by Mackie and Robinson . The DVD includes a wonderfully informative commentary by Rodney Evans which is a stimulus to watch the movie again immediately . The film has message , style , class , and quality that make it one of the finer films about class , gender , and racial dichotomies and how very wasteful those prejudices are . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Gloriana !	Though many a fine actress has essayed the role of Elizabeth I and done so quite successfully , each finding her own vision of the most important queen that ever lived and translating that to film ( Cate Blanchette , Bette Davis , Judi Dench , and Glenda Jackson to name but a few ) , it should come as no surprise that the enormously gifted actress Helen Mirren could show us yet another aspect of Elizabeth . This Elizabeth is set in her middle fifties , a woman still able to maintain her reputation as the Virgin Queen while settling into various assignations . Here Elizabeth is in love with Robert Devereux , Earl of Essex ( Hugh Dancy ) while being prepped for a ' proper union ' with France's royalty in the form of the Duke of Anjou ( Jérémie Covillault ) . But her ' love life ' is only a small yet refreshingly nuanced portion of the long story . Mirren is fortunate to be supported by such fine actors as Jeremy Irons , Patrick Malahide , Toby Jones , Barbara Flynn , Ian McDiarmid , Simon Woods , Diana Kent , and Toby Salaman among the many standout characters . The visual aspects of the production are some of the more luxurious ever placed on celluloid , with attention to detail in costuming ( Mike O'Neill ) and sets ( Galius Klicius and Leon McCarthy ) that are stunning to see . The fine musical score is by Robert Lane and incorporates period music with works written for the piece that stand solidly as classical music compositions . Cinematographers Dmitrij Gribanov and Larry Smith find the right balance between court grandeur and boudoir intimacy . And of course kudos to Director Tom Hooper and writer Nigel Williams ! But standing above them all is the brilliance of Helen Mirren's involvement as Elizabeth . She provides us with even more information about the enigmatic queen , allowing us to see both the lusty woman and the brilliant monarch simultaneously . The film is a joy ! Highly Recommended .
Living on the Lonely Rim of Life	There are an increasingly impressive number of films coming from Israel and MEDUZOT ( JELLYFISH ) is one of the more creative works of cinematic art in that rich catalogue . Shira Geffen ( who also wrote the screenplay ) and Etgar Keret collaborated on this seemingly small film and from a few threads of separate and disparate characterizations have woven a fascinating and deeply touching montage of the lives of several people whose destinies curiously intersect . The manner in which the film is presented is a graceful mixture of naturalism and fantasy and the directors know just how to combine the two approaches to maximum effect . The film opens in Tel Aviv at a routine wedding reception where untidy Batya ( Sarah Adler ) works as a waitress , her life being recently shaken by the dissolution of her relationship . At this noisy and gaudy reception we also notice the bride Keren ( Noa Knoller ) who encounters an accident in the washroom that results in a broken leg requiring a cast and preventing her from a planned honeymoon ( her new husband Michael - Gera Sandler - finds instead a hotel on the noisy boulevard which is less than romantic ) , and Joy ( Ma-nenita De Latorre ) , a Filipino caregiver for older unwanted women who works to send support to her young son in the Philippines , and a young female photographer who captures it all on film . The owner of the catering business fires Batya and the photographer and the two share living space . While musing on the beach Batya finds a strange young mute girl ( Nicol Leidman ) wearing a circular floating device and when Batya cannot find the girl's parents she resorts to police help - a turn which only places Batya as custodian of the strange child . Meanwhile Keren and Michael begin their disastrous honeymoon in the noisy hotel , discovering that the quiet top floor suite is occupied by a single woman poet whom Michael meets and eventually requests they trade rooms , a decision that leads to strange circumstances that affect all three people . And during this time Joy is passed among several older women , ending up with a cranky mother of an actress who speaks only Hebrew and German and takes her time growing into the kindness Joy offers her . Small incidents continue to occur , incidents that bind these people together in mysterious ways , some happy , some sad . And while the characters of this tapestry are very realistically drawn , there are moments of magical realism that embroider their lives with a glowing sense of fantasy - moments that address the topics of childhood memories , core needs , death , and that universal need to connect to others . This is a delicate work of crocheted art that remains in the mind long after the credits of this gifted cast and production crew complete the film . In Hebrew with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Inner Sanctum of Family , The Durability of Love	RECORDATI DI ME is a beautifully written and constructed film by Italian director Gabriele Muccino about the workings of a ' normal middle class ' family and the bonds and challenges that peak at the time of fragmentation of the family unit that accompanies 1 ) middle age of the parents and 2 ) departure of the children at the end of high school . How those crises and adjustments inform the durability of the family unit makes up this thoroughly engrossing and touching film . Carlo Ristuccia ( Fabrizio Bentivoglio ) is the father embedded in a life long job that is mundane and not at all in line with his dreams of being a writer ( he has been writing a novel for years , yet unfinished ) . His wife Giulia ( Laura Morante ) is a committed mother but longs to return to the acting stage she abandoned for marriage . Their two children are Valentina ( Nicolette Romanoff ) who is determined to become a glamorous TV star and Paolo ( Silvio Muccino ) who is aimless in his desire for a life of meaning , a life which would prove he is not as unexceptional as he views himself . Gradually each member of the family encounters escape routes : Carlo meets his old girlfriend Alessia ( Monica Bellucci ) and begins an affair with her ; Giulia is asked to audition for a part in a play directed by one Alfredo ( Gabriele Lavia ) who makes her feel desirable and noticed ; Valentina sleeps around to land a part in a TV giveaway show ' Ali Babbi ' , and Paolo attempts to attach himself to a girlfriend by planning a birthday party with contraband hashish which he feels will make him appear important in the eyes of his peers . As each of these crises reaches a peek , Carlo sustains a back injury while fleeing his home and his resultant hospitalization results in altered perceptions of what the family is all about . The twists and turns of the plot are , of course , far more involved than this short synopsis , and it is the development of each of these characters and the way that they approach change that makes the film work so well . The acting is excellent and the direction is past paced even for a two and a half hour movie . Yes , much of this has been said before , but the wit and pathos combine to create a story well worth telling and watching . It is a story about dreams , lost possibilities , and the need to fulfill them .
Helen Mirren Creates Another Triumph !	THE QUEEN seems like one of those biographical features that would be difficult to hold anyone's interest - on the surface , without the benefit of knowing much about the content . Queen Elizabeth II is not exactly a figure who generates anything but a response of boredom , so flat and uninteresting is her persona . But enter Helen Mirren , one of the finest actresses on the screen today , and this potentially boring potentate becomes a vibrantly detailed and fascinating portrait of a queen at odds with the times . It is a staggering achievement . Director Stephen Frears , using a superb script by Peter Morgan , details the time from the election of Labor Party Prime Minister Tony Blair ( a brilliant Michael Sheen ) to that momentous international outpouring of grief and love that followed the tragic death of Princess Di in 1997 , showing the bifurcation of response between the Royals and the People as represented by Blair . Instead of the insensitive cold figure that the world witnessed as QE II , Mirren shows us that the woman who is Queen actually had feelings for her grandchildren , a respect for her station as royalty , and was gradually responsive to the cry of the people via Blair's influence , allowing the world to pay proper tribute to a heroine . The ogres in the Balmoral Castle were in fact Prince Phillip ( James Cromwell ) and the Queen Mum ( Sylvia Syms ) abetted by the very proper Robin Janvrin ( Roger Allam ) and the wishy washy Prince Charles ( Alex Jennings ) . The entire production is beautifully filmed with the use of clips from Princess Di's life ( and death ) instead of creating an actress role to portray her - a very wise choice . The musical score by Alexandre Desplat is superb ( with a little help from Verdi's ' Libera Me ' as sung by Lynn Dawson and the BBC chorus for the funeral portion ) . But indeed the accolades go to Helen Mirren in an Oscar worthy performance - with the very strong counterbalance by Michael Sheen . An excellent film about a moment no one will ever forget . Grady Harp
' Liberty , Equality , Fraternity ' : Nationalism and its Abuses	' Indigènes ' ( DAYS OF GLORY ) as written by Olivier Lorelle and Rachid Bouchareb ( who also directed ) is a film of visceral power , another aspect of World War II that has not been addressed and that points to problems of inequality among fighting troops that still exists . It is a grisly film ( how can a film about war not be ? ) but shares a viewpoint that is as shocking as it is important . During WWII the French military incorporated African men including a large number of Algerian soldiers to fight the Nazis and protect France ( and , yes , its protectorates ) from oppression . The story focuses on four of these Algerian soldiers who leave their homeland to fight for the ideals of France yet are victims of discrimination and inequality of treatment and advancement , even when they are selected to perform the most hazardous of duties . The men vary from idealist to illiterate but their sense of camaraderie is rock solid : Saïd Otmari ( Jamel Debbouze ) is unable to read or write and has only one arm , yet he is devoted to his mission of saving France and hence his family in Algeria ; Yassir ( Samy Naceri ) proves to be a marksman and is the one selected to be front man during the most dangerous encounters ; Messaoud Souni ( Roschdy Zem ) finds solace in the love of a French girl Irène ( Aurélie Eltvedt ) but his communications with her are censured by the military ; Abdelkader ( Sami Bouajila ) is the natural leader among the four yet is not advanced in rank when the Frenchmen are . The only non-Algerian who is supportive of these men is Sergeant Roger Martinez ( Bernard Blancan ) who attempts intervention with the French over the disillusioned Algerians . In many ways the story is related through the reactions of Abdelkader , especially the heartbreaking ending . It is the final act of courage when these four men are assigned to assist the American forces in Alsace , an assignment so devastatingly dangerous that no other French forces would accept , that the love and devotion of these men is supremely tested . And as the fragile victory over the Nazis is claimed by the French , we see the last of the Algerian quartet walk unnoticed and uncelebrated through the freed Alsatian town . If the 60 years later ending of the film is a bit maudlin for some viewers , it still makes a solid statement about the courage of these men , fighting for a ' motherland ' that all but ignored them . And the story is true ! The battle scenes are realistic , the acting is first caliber , and the production values are excellent , including the cinematography by Patrick Blossier and a musical score by Armand Amar and Cheb Khaled that enhances every aspect of a multicultural war . This is a film about WW II that stands with the best of the stories about the physical and emotional atrocities that war produces . In French and Arabic with subtitles . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Indelible , Lingering Aftermath of War on the Human Psyche	EL MAR is a tough , stark , utterly brilliant , brave work of cinematic art . Director Agustí Villaronga , with an adaptation by Antoni Aloy and Biel Mesquida of Blai Bonet's novel , has created a film that traces the profound effects of war on the minds of children and how that exposure wrecks havoc on adult lives . And though the focus is on war's heinous tattoo on children , the transference to like effects on soldiers and citizens of adult age is clear . This film becomes one of the finest anti-war documents without resorting to pamphleteering : the end result has far greater impact because of its inherent story following children's march toward adulthood . A small group of children are shown in the Spanish Civil War of Spain , threatened with blackouts and invasive nighttime slaughtering of citizens . Ramala ( Nilo Mur ) , Tur ( David Lozano ) , Julia ( Sergi Moreno ) , and Francisca ( Victoria Verger ) witness the terror of the assassination of men , and the revenge that drives one of them to murder and suicide . These wide-eyed children become adults , carrying all of the psychic disease and trauma repressed in their minds . We then encounter the three who survive into adulthood where they are all confined to a tuberculosis sanitarium . Ramala ( Roger Casamajor ) has survived as a male prostitute , protected by his ' john ' Morell ( Juli Mira ) , and has kept his life style private . Tur ( Bruno Bergonzini ) has become a frail sexually repressed gay male whose cover is his commitment to Catholicism and the blur of delusional self-mutilation / crucifixion . Francisca ( Antònia Torrens ) has become a nun and serves the patients in the sanitarium . The three are re-joined by their environment in the sanitarium and slowly each reveals the scars of their childhood experiences with war . Tur longs for Ramala's love , Ramala longs to be free from his Morell , and Francisca must face her own internal needs covered by her white nun's habit . The setting of the sanitarium provides a graphic plane where the thin thread between life and death , between lust and love , and between devotion and destruction is played out . To detail more would destroy the impact of the film on the individual viewer , but suffice it to say that graphic sex and full nudity are involved ( in some of the most stunningly raw footage yet captured on film ) and the viewer should be prepared to witness every form of brutality imaginable . For this viewer these scenes are of utmost importance and Director Villaronga is to be applauded for his perseverance and bravery in making this story so intense . The actors , both as children and as adults , are splendid : Roger Cassamoor , Bruno Bergonzini and Antònia Torrens are especially fine in inordinately difficult roles . The cinematography by Jaime Peracaula and the haunting musical score by Javier Navarrete serve the director's vision . A tough film , this , but one highly recommended to those who are unafraid to face the horrors of war and its aftermath . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Dark and Somber Maze of Altered Reality	THE MACHINIST is a mesmerizing film , a journey through the interstices of a mind deprived of sleep , of nourishment , and a mind that struggles to untangle the chaos of a past of guilt and terror . And the journey is terrifying . When the film opens we meet Trevor Reznik ( Christian Bale ) or at least the emaciated , tortured remains of a man who hasn't slept for a year . We don't know why this worker in a machine factory is in such condition : the story unwinds slowly so that by the end we accompany Reznik in his shock to his moment of discovery . It is the getting there that is the tough beauty of this amazingly rich film as written by Scott Kosar and directed by Brad Anderson . The setting is always dark as though the state of mind is a nightmare . Reznik's meager existence is challenged when he is involved in an industrial accident in which a fellow worker Miller ( Michael Ironside ) loses an arm . Shocked by the accident ( for which Reznik feels responsible ) the various few people in his life seem supportive : a hooker named Stevie ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) , a waitress in an airport all night diner Marie ( Aitana Sánchez-Gijón ) , and an ambiguous bald man Ivan ( John Sharian ) who appears to Reznik in strange ways . Reznik's mind slowly disintegrates into paranoid delusions , the only way he can hold his life together is by post-its reminding him first of his documented progressive weight loss , then of his needs , then of his secret mystery . To say more would be a great disservice to the extraordinary plot . Christian Bale delivers one of the most committed performances on film . He not only physically inhabits Reznik with his skeletal appearance , he also mentally nurtures all the nuances of fear , pain , pleasure and madness that build as his character's reason for a year of insomnia is revealed at the very end . We stand in suspense with him and his fall is as powerful as any Dante ever devised . The entire cast is superb but special kudos go to Jennifer Jason Leigh who finally has a role that allows her to demonstrate the spectrum of skill she possesses as an actress . Not an easy film , this , but a very important one . Highly recommended - but not to see alone ! Grady Harp
A Splendid and Important Film	MILK is one of the more powerful bio-epics produced by Hollywood . Harvey Milk , the man honored by this superbly crafted film by writer Dustin Lance Black and directed by Gus Van Sant , is brought to life by Sean Penn in his most skilled performance of his fine career . Not only is this movie an homage to Harvey Milk , but it is also a shaking reminder of the ferocious ongoing battle for Civil Rights . Few viewers will come away from this film untouched . The life of gay activist Harvey Milk is well known , as is his assassination as he finally reached a platform where his voice could be heard . Black and Van Zant have wisely started the story with some black and white footage of the abuse of the gay population across the country and then ease into the biography by showing us Milk in New York , approaching his 40th birthday and discovering Scott Smith ( James Franco ) as the beginning of not only a tender partnership but also a change in Milk's drive to make a difference . The climb to importance from his migration to Castro Street in San Francisco and the ' recruiting ' of his clan ( Emile Hirsch as Cleve Jones et al ) and the struggles he faced in gaining acceptance of a minority group is the stuff of legends . Penn is extraordinary , but Franco , Hirsch , Josh Brolin as Milk's assassin , and Diego Luna as the kinky Jack Lira turn in excellent performances . Van Zant is unafraid to show the tenderness among his characters : it is satisfying to see prominent male actors take on roles that include same sex intimacy . This is a film that deserves to enter the archives as one of the ' greats . ' Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Three People Beyond Words : Communication !	THE CUCKOO ( Kukushka ) is a small miracle of a film . It is not only a unique story but one that draws us into the individual lives of three people form different languages and backgrounds who bond in time of war because of their mutual isolation . It is at once charming , gently humorous , and deeply touching . Taking place during WW II during the little known Russo-Finnish War , the setting is Lapland . We first encounter a Finnish student / soldier Veikko ( Ville Haapasalo ) being chained by the Russians to a rock in a German SS uniform as punishment for his disillusionment in the war effort , thinking that he will be killed as the enemy . In another area some Russian soldiers are transporting a Russian poet / soldier Ivan ( Viktor Bychkov ) condemned for his anti-Communist stance : the jeep transporting Ivan is bombed , killing the soldiers except for Ivan . Along comes a little Lapp girl Anni ( Anni-Kristiina Juuso ) , finds the severely injured Ivan , drags him to her hut and nurses him back to health . Meanwhile Veikko ingeniously frees himself from his rock and wanders into the presence of Anni . Veikko speaks Finnish , Ivan speaks Russian and Anni ( aka ' Cuckoo ' ) speaks Sami and the three cannot understand each other's language or customs . Ivan sees Veikko as a fascist and wants to destroy him ; Veikko never wanted to be in the war anyway so he pacifies Ivan ; Anni is more concerned with basic physical needs ( her husband has been gone four years , conscripted by the armed forces for a war she doesn't understand and she is hungry for the presence of a man in her bed ! ) . The story explains the manner in which these three people intertwine their lives and beliefs and overcome the barriers of language to form a trio of true universal family . The war ends and the three ' bodies ' separate , leaving behind indelible evidence of their transforming experiences . Writer / director Aleksandr Rogozhkin has created a masterpiece , a film brimming with beauty of visuals , of warmly humorous exchanges of dialog understood only by each speaker , of survival and of the mystery of life beyond . The acting is superb , the cinematography is breathtaking , and the message is deeply moving . In the field of strong anti-war statements , THE CUCKOO is the most sincere . A brilliant achievement ! Grady Harp
Work your way through this one . . .	Stephen Gaghan is a master psychologist in addition to being a uniquely creative writer and director . He knows how to take a controversial topic , spread it over a period of time and from vantages that involve everyone who would ever view his information , and pace a film in such away that his viewers must stay glued to the screen and soundtrack so that not a moment of the powerful bits of intrigue he is relating fall out of place . It worked for TRAFFIC : it is stunningly effective in SYRIANA . Syriana is not just a story . Syriana is a conglomerate of stories that have as a common thread the impact the oil industry has on the globe and on every inhabitant . Involving the CIA , FBI , oil companies , Arab nations , common workers in the oil fields , children , princes , parents , spies , China , terrorists , self-martyrdom - the playing field that Gaghan gives to us piece by painfully confluent piece faults global economy , US and Middle East greed , and the pitiful reality of the global dependence on oil that threatens to destroy individuals and countries , if not the planet . Gaghan's method of film-making can be tough to follow , so seemingly dissociated are the elements of the story as it unfolds in different parts of the world , with different sets of characters somewhat tangential to reality at times and thus jolting to the linear mind . To write a synopsis of the plot is counterproductive to experiencing the film . Suffice it to say that every member of the huge cast is right on target : George Clooney , Matt Damon , Jeffrey Wright , Amanda Peet , Chris Cooper , Amr Waked , Christopher Plummer , Kayvan Novak , Alexander Siddig , Tim Blake Nelson , and Mark Strong are only a few of the extraordinarily well cast group of characters . And in all fairness the contributions of Alexandre Desplat who gives his usual high degree of excellence to the musical scoring , the cinematography by Robert Elswit and the film editing by Tim Squyres are an integral part of the impact of this powerful and very important film . Brilliant work , incredibly important viewpoint that bears seeing and hearing . Grady Harp
Family : Obligations , Commitments , Consequences	Writer / director Per Fly is a strong filmmaker from Denmark who is unafraid to make controversial statements that challenge certain ' family values ' sentiments prevalent in this country . In this brilliantly written , directed and acted film he manages to reveal the inner destruction of a family under whose surface is an institution of envy . It is a riveting film that despite its in excess of two-hour length keeps us riveted to our seats in its never-ending exploration of the darker side of familial machinations . Christoffer ( Ulrich Thomsen ) has escaped his Danish family and is comfortably ensconced in Stockholm as a successful restaurateur , living with the beautiful actress Maria ( Lisa Werlinder ) whose love for life extends beyond the fulfilling pleasures of the boudoir . Their bliss is interrupted by an unexpected visit from Chrisoffer's father who briefly spends time with the couple , happy for their state of success in all things . Upon his departure Christoffer receives a phone call that his father has hung himself and his presence is demanded in Denmark . Christoffer and Maria fly home to the matriarch of the family , Christoffer's mother Anneliese ( the brilliant Ghita Norby ) who immediately takes charge of the family , demands that Christoffer take over the failing family steel company thus skipping over Christoffer's designated brother-in-law Ulrick ( Lars Brygmann ) , a fact that tears at Christoffer's sister Benedikte ( Karina Skands ) . Taking the position of head of the family business would mean his giving up his dreams in Stockholm , negate Maria's burgeoning acting career , and placing Christoffer in the ominous position of having to fire longtime employees and make changes that would decimate many - not the least of which would be Christoffer's character . But Anneliese is strong and gets her way and thus the destruction of Christoffer's humanity and life begins . Christoffer is able to merge the company with a French company and make the family business successful . But at what a cost ? Maria leaves him after they have a child , Benedikte collides with him over his ruining her life with Ulrick , and Christoffer moves to France where he drowns his sorrows in alcohol . Per Fly is not one to tidy up all of the loose ends of a family disintegration : he leaves the end results of a bad decision up to the audience to figure out . It is this respect for the audience that endears this artist to us . The script is brilliantly written , the acting is superb , and the direction is tight and sensitive to the storyline . In every way this is a film worthy of our attention , not only as an art piece , but also as a means of re-examining ' family values ' that here are presented in quite a different light than our usual reference phrase suggests . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Little Town in South Wales is Bursting with Life and Stories	VERY ANNIE MARY is a quirky little film written and directed by Sara Sugarman that manages to delve into myriad fantasies and manners and crushed dreams and come out with a thoroughly tender , warm hearted and funny result . There are more interesting characters of all types in this story , each of whom could be expanded into a film all their own . After a rollicking opening sequence of a bakery delivery van topped with speakers blasting Puccini's ' Nessun dorma ' over lovely countryside of Wales - the driver is the town baker Jack Pugh ( Jonathan Pryce ) who wears a rubber mask and bloated suit that mimic Pavarotti singing along with a recording - we meet the town folk . Jack's daughter Annie Mary ( Rachel Griffiths ) is in her 30s , stuck as a surrogate wife and slave to her father and his bakery business . She seems loopy and perhaps retarded ( socially indeed , if not a bit mentally ) and has borne the brunt of her father's scorn since her mother died when she was fifteen , just when Annie had won a singing competition judged by Pavarotti . The loss of her mother places her in the role of ' wife ' to the dastardly John who daily convinces her she is a nothing while he pursues his avocation of singing for the townsfolk as the Voice of the Valley . Annie's only remnant of her past survives in her teaching voice lessons to such odd folk as Hob ( Ioan Gruffudd ) and Nob ( Matthew Rhys ) , gay friends of hers with delusions of Hollywood . Her closest friend is teenage Bethan ( Joanna Page ) who is ill . Annie Mary spies a house on the market , desperately wants to get out from under her father's control to make a life of her own , and shares this with Bethan . During one of his concerts John collapses with a stroke and it appears Annie's dreams of independence are crushed . The townsfolk decide they want to befriend Bethan and monies are gathered to send Bethan on her ' dream ' - a trip to Disneyland . In a hilarious talent show meant to raise funds for the Disneyland trip Annie and her friends win the contest and the money meant for Bethan's trip is entrusted to Annie . Annie again stumbles and squanders the funds on her own dreams by buying sensual satisfaction . Broken by her own mistake , Annie confesses to Bethan and Bethan replies that her only dream before dying is to hear Annie sing . And sing Annie does , in probably the most touching performance of Puccini's ' O mio bambino caro ' . At last Annie Mary has regained her self-respect and has a glimpse of her own life . The closing multiple resolutions of the film are full of surprises of the best kind . Every character in this delightful film is well acted , but there are moments by some , like the very weird , besotted minister ( Kenneth Griffith ) , that certainly deserve awards for brilliance . VERY ANNIE MARY is a rich , multilayered , magical film with outstanding performances by Rachel Griffiths and Jonathan Pryce . The only fault one might find is that much of the dialogue is indecipherable due to the Welsh accents that challenge the ear ! Highly recommended . Grady Harp
An Epic Film Rich in History , Wondrously Performed	La Meglio gioventù ( THE BEST OF YOUTH ) is a spellbinding drama that sweeps the viewer through Italian history from 1966 through 2003 as distilled in the lives of one family . Writers Sandro Petraglia and Stefano Rulli have created a screenplay that is both informative to those of us who did not live this period in Italian political disturbance and simultaneously passionate in the creation of a group of people surrounding two brothers who propel the story with heartrending power . Nicola ( Luigi Lo Cascio ) and Matteo ( Alessio Boni ) are brothers in Rome in the Carati family - mother Adriana ( Adriana Asti ) , father Angelo ( Andrea Tidona ) and sisters Francesca ( Valentina Carnelutti ) and Giovanna ( Lidia Vitale ) . Nicola and Matteo are devoted to each other despite their polarity of differences in personalities and beliefs . With their childhood friends Carlo ( Fabrizio Gifuni ) and Vitale ( Claudio Gioè ) they begin their an adventure of travel to the northern regions of the globe , but Nicola and Matteo encounter and rescue a young abused girl Giorgia ( Jasmine Trinca ) who is confined in an asylum , a pause for humanity reasons that alters their lives forever . Matteo joins the military and then the police force while Nicola travels to Norway to work as a hippie laborer . He returns to Italy after the flood of Florence , and meets Giulia ( Sonia Bergamasco ) a talented piano player who sympathizes with the Red Brigade of socialism . Matteo , as an angry rebel spirit travels to Sicily where he encounters and encourages photographer Mirella ( Maya Sansa ) . Due in part to his devotion to Giorgia's plight , Nicola becomes a psychiatrist . The four main characters then are the keys to the story which lives through the myriad terrorist political upheavals in Italy during that forty year period but also demonstrate the profound effect that family and friendship have on shaping the destinies of all concerned . Of course the story is far richer than this brief synopsis ( the film is after all over six hours long ! ) and it is conducted like a symphony by the gifted director Marco Tullio Giordana . Originally screened as a television miniseries in Italy , the six hourly episodes are seamlessly joined for the award winning theatrical release and the result the film is a drama that stirs every emotion in the human spirit . It boasts brilliant cinematography by Roberto Forza and a musical score that is fine pastiche of works by Bach , Georges Delerue , Mozart , Astor Piazzolla , and Giovanni Sollima . The cast succeeds in brandishing talent so deeply embedded in their characters that each becomes part of the viewers ' psyche . This is a stunning film , one that once seen will probably find its way into the permanent film libraries of those who appreciate great cinematic art . An exceptional visual and emotional experience . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Another Jewel in Pedro Almodóvar's Crown !	Though the films by one of our geniuses of film-making in our times , Pedro Almodóvar , is making films now that are polished to perfection - Volver ( 2006 ) , La Mala educación ( 2004 ) , Hable con ella ( 2002 ) , and Todo sobre mi madre ( 1999 ) - his early films such as this one ' ¿Qué he hecho yo para merecer esto ! ! ' in retrospect contained all the identifying marks that would establish him as not only one of the bad boys of cinema , but also one of the sensitive cinematic psychologists . And everything he touches gleams . In this 1984 story of a wildly dysfunctional family co-habiting in Madrid , the star is Gloria ( Carmen Maura ) , a No-Doz addicted maid living in a tiny flat with her taxi driver / forger husband who perseverates on an aging German chanteuse for whom he once worked , two sons - one a hustler and the other a drug peddler - and a wacko mother-in-law who treats food like contraband , selling what she chooses to the family members . The turning point in this raucously fragile but funny family is the chance to make money : the father is coerced into forging Hitler's memoirs with a little help from his German chanteuse's influence , Gloria bargains with a dentist for her hustler son's possession , ad infinitum ! But leave it to Almodóvar to pull it all off with just the right amount of madness and mayhem , and a jolly dollop of psychology about family interaction and women thrown in for good measure . The cast is a delight ( including Almodóvar regulars Cecilia Roth and Verónica Forqué ! ) and the movie is so fast paced that it feels like a carnival ride - which is very much the way this marvelous director sees his early work . Highly recommended .
The Fragile yet Indomitable Little Street Sparrow : Édith Piaf in Fragments	That ' La Môme ' AKA ' La Vie En Rose ' is a triumph for actress Marion Cotillard who manages to inhabit the persona of Édith Piaf is a given . This is a powerful , deeply moving tribute to a musical phenomenon whose impact on the world remains as heady as during her short lifetime ( December 19 , 1915-October 11 , 1963 ) . She remains a French icon but her singing and her life belong to the world : who can resist her " poignant ballads performed in a heartbreaking voice " , the result of her life as an unwanted child , raised in a brothel , starting her career as a street singer with her circus contortionist father only to be discovered and given the opportunity to sing in a cabaret , a move that brought her to the attention of the world and made her one of the most sought after singers on the world's stages ? No matter the degree of involvement in music , everyone has heard and reacted to her most famous songs ' La vie en rose ' , ' Hymne à l'amour ' , ' Milord ' , ' and of course her signature song ' Non , je ne regrette rien ' . Writer / director Olivier Dahan ( with assist from Isabelle Sobelman ) has elected to present Piaf's impact on the world not as a linear biopic but rather as fragments from her existence as a child protected in a brothel by prostitute Titine ( Emmanuelle Seigner ) , her life as a street singer with her pal Mômone ( Sylvie Testud ) , her ' discovery ' by Louis Leplée ( Gérard Depardieu ) , her descent into alcoholism and drug addiction after the loss of the love of her life - a married boxer Marcel Cerdan ( Jean-Pierre Martins ) , and her eventual fame in New York . Oddly the impact she had on the French people during World War II is ignored and there are other large chunks of her life story that are missing . But in the end the fragments we are given allow us to empathize and understand the persona of Édith Piaf , and that makes any other misgiving irrelevant . Devan obviously found the perfect actress in Marion Cotillard ( ' A Very Long Engagement ' , ' A Good Life ' , ' Pretty Things ' , etc ) whose immersion in the role is breathtakingly brilliant . The feature accompanying the film on the DVD ( already 141 minutes in length ! ) allows us to see and hear the manner in which Devan and Cotillard recreated Piaf in makeup , costume , body language and of course impeccable lip-syncing of Piaf's songs . This is a film that lingers in the mind not only as a memory of a great artist but also as a reminder of how even the most broken of spirits can survive and succeed . Stunning ! Grady Harp
A Staggering Film That Should Be Required Viewing	The truth is tough , the truth must be faced , and the truth is what THE EXONERATED is all about . A project started by writers Jessica Blank and Erik Jensen in 2000 when , in response to a lecture on capital punishment , the couple was moved by the telephone voice of one of the many innocent people on death row who had been falsely convicted of murders they did not in truth commit . This lead to a commitment on the part of Blank and Jensen to interview six such imprisoned people who had spent years of their lives on Death Row only to be eventually exonerated and released . The result of this research was a play that not only was on Broadway but also traveled the country . Now director Bob Balaban has transformed this play into one of the most searingly powerful dramas about our penal system that has ever been produced . Each of the six condemned people on death row is portrayed by a gifted actor and the script is taken 100 % from interviews and testimony and court records of these exonerated victims . They each tell their story of the incident that resulted in their wrongful arrest and conviction , their experience while confined to Death Row , their thoughts of living in threat of execution , and their manner of dealing with the world once released . These different people are portrayed by Brian Dennehy , Delroy Lindo , Susan Sarandon , Danny Glover , Aidan Quinn , and David Brown , Jr . Adding some significant reenacted dialogue from spouses and police and jury are such fine actors as Lee Turgesen , Bobby Cannavale , Laurence Luckinbill with a host of others in minor roles . At the end of the film each of these actors who have been creating the characters are faded into the actual exonerated victims who speak directly to us about their response . The overwhelming message is one against capital punishment , racism , against railroading innocent people into the prison system without the fairness of well-guided appeals , against all the flaws that besiege our penal system . The effect is shattering and staggering . This is NOT a docudrama , but a sensitively written , produced , directed and acted film . It is a film that every citizen of the world should see . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
An Odyssey of a Visual and Emotional Feast !	BREAKFAST ON PLUTO is now on DVD and perhaps that will garner the larger audience it deserves after its scant art house run on the big screen . In every way this is a tender , sensitive , sweet story , full of hope , faith , indefatigable courage and persistence that is embellished by a first class performance by the gifted Cillian Murphy . Ireland , late 50s early 60s , and a child is left abandoned on the doorstep of the local priest ( Liam Neeson ) . The priest hurriedly places the infant with a foster mother and we watch the little boy Patrick Braden slowly grow into a cross-dressing child with outsider friends , loathed by his adopted mother to the point where he is unable to cope with life as a lie and makes off to London as a transvestite gay man ( now going by the name ' Kitten Braden ' ) . He hopes to find his birth mother and his search leads him through the dregs of London , the city that ' swallowed up ' his real mother , becoming involved with the seamier side of the city , jailed mistakenly , becoming an apprentice to a magician ( Stephen Rea ) , a cabaret singer , etc until he finally makes the discovery of his beginnings - his true parents - and his journey to find happiness ends sweetly . The entire cast of this long ( over two hours ) film is so fine that never for an instant does the pace of the tale let up . The cinematography by Declan Quinn is splendid , the costumes by Eimer Ni Mhaoldomhnaigh are some of the best recreations of the 70's on film , and the musical score by Anna Jordan mixes her own creations with the wonderful tunes from the era and the result is brilliantly integrated into the film . Director Neil Jordan adapted the screenplay from Patrick McCabe's fine novel and finds all the magic and makes it visual . But in the long run if we are unable to identify and care about Patrick ' Kitten ' Braden the movie would seem silly . Cillian Murphy is such an honest actor ( having spent time pre-production living with transvestites about whom he speaks so tenderly in the featurette ) and gives a multifaceted , glitteringly fine performance . This is a fun , entertaining , and important film . Highly Recommended for all audiences ! Grady Harp
The Sacrifices of Procreation and the Timeless Dignity of the Emperor Penguins	As a moment of respite and perspective in a world cluttered with tribal warfare , human responses to natural disasters , and the garish flames of politics , MARCH OF THE PENGUINS reminds us of the eternal cycle of life , life perpetuated against all manner of foes and odds , and helps us re-center our blurring focus . This eloquently beautiful film , a documentary that goes well beyond the genre limitations , is a work of art by Director Luc Jacquet and his fearless crew of photographers , and as art should , it brings a subject into focus that reminds us of the space each organism occupies with dignity on this troubled planet . The story is simple yet profound : the Antarctica Emperor penguins yearly march from the sea to the breeding grounds , mate monogamously , procreate , the females leave their egg with the fathers and return to the sea for food , returning to nourish the new chicks , relieving the fathers to make their food trek to the sea , returning to relieve the mothers who depart for food only to return and conjointly raise their newborns , then make the sacrifice of leaving the chicks to mature and plop into the sea to begin the whole cycle again . These elegant and warmly humorous birds endure the outer extremes of nature all for the sake of nurturing their progeny . The cycle is fascinating in its centuries old repetition of ritual and wonderfully pertinent to the re-evaluating the human family unit ! The photography is magnificent , finding not only the intimacy of the penguins , but the rapture of the frigid sea where they dive impossible depths for foods , and also the majesty of the Antarctica complete with ' Southern lights ' . This film is a work of magic and happily can be shared with all generations , each segment from the very young to the very elderly will find a special message . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Moles and the insidious tunnels they dig	Martin Scorsese has another major hit on his hands with the release of the intelligent , chilling , violent , puzzling , and completely fascinating THE DEPARTED . This viewer has not seen the INFERNAL AFFAIRS on which this film is based so comparisons are not possible . But taking this film solely on its own merits this is one gripping piece of cinematic art . Beginning with a very smart script by William Monahan ( apparently based on the original screenplay by Siu Fai Mak ) and employing one of the best ensemble casts of the year , Scorsese does what he does best in giving us a film that holds our attention , our breath , and our applause throughout . The story involves two young recently graduated from police academy , men from opposite sides of the law and backgrounds , who are made moles within the Boston State Police department and the Irish mafia : Leonardo DiCaprio is one and Matt Damon is the other and both young actors turn in committed and convincing performances . On the polar aspects of the battleground are Jack Nicholson as the crime king Costello ( his finest work since ' A Few Good Men ' ) together with Ray Winstone as Mr French and on the other end are DiCaprio's mentors Martin Sheen and Mark Wahlberg and Damon's mentors Alec Baldwin et al . The very beautifully written female lead is played to perfection by Vera Farmiga who finally has a role ( a conflicted psychiatrist for the moles ) hat takes full advantage of her prodigious gifts as an actress . Some may find the violence obsessively graphic , but then this is Scorcese's style and for this viewer it is necessary for the drive of the story . It is impossible to stop concentrating for a moment during this rapid fire drama , spiced with just the right amount of wry humor , making its running time ( in excess of two and a half hours ) speed by as fast as the many bullets in the atmosphere . This is one of Scorsese's best films and one that begs to be seen again . Grady Harp
A Perfectly Integrated Film , Played as a Fine String Quartet	PROOF is one of those rare films that transfers a superb play directly to the screen without losing a bit of the power of the play , but enhancing the story with the advantages of the camera . With a tough story like this one it takes a brilliant cast and director to fine-tune the work and in this instance it all works to perfection . The story is well known from all the PR of the theatrical screening : recounting it in a review does not add or subtract the importance of the film or the experience of the viewer . The premise , mathematician Robert ( Anthony Hopkins ) and his caretaker daughter Catherine ( Gweneth Paltrow ) who also is an uncommonly bright 27-year-old mathematics mind and has spent the glowing years of her youth caring for her recently deceased father . They converse in flashbacks , a means of realizing the closeness of their bond emotionally , mentally , and probably parallel mental illness proclivities . Robert left notebooks filled with thoughts and clues to a complex mathematical proof and Hal ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , a devoted admirer of Robert's genius , is organizing the thoughts and deciphering the meanings of Robert's scribblings . Catherine's estranged sister Claire ( Hope Davis ) arrives to ' settle ' the matters left by Robert's demise and becomes the camera that brings focus to the fact that Catherine has inherited not only her father's genius but his mental fragility as well . How this quartet - Robert , Catherine , Hal , Claire - serve to unravel the findings of Robert's ( and Catherine's ) legacy is the essence of this gripping tale . A more powerful group of actors for this film would be difficult to find . One expects the brilliance of Paltrow's performance since she had time with the character on the stage , and Hopkins can toss these bizarre characters off with grace and aplomb . But it is the pleasure of seeing Davis and Gyllenhaal rise to the same level of expertise that makes the film glow . This is an example of ensemble acting of the highest form and director Madden conducts the performance with sensitivity and momentum . The result is a treasureable , intelligent , powerful film that challenges the mind while entertaining all the senses . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Tale of Deceit , Power , and Victimization : Fassbinder at his Best !	Rainer Werner Fassbinder has long been honored as the ' bad boy ' in European cinema , a writer / director / actor who repeatedly has taken chances and because of his brutal honesty has succeeded in making a stream of important films . FOX AND HIS FRIENDS dates back to 1975 and remains one of Fassbinder's most successful films . As with all of his films , Fassbinder deals with the homosexual subculture in Germany but his main message goes far beyond the characters he creates : the examination of how people manipulate people for personal gain and the destruction that produces is a recurring problem and one that this film certainly explores . ' Fox ' - a nickname of Franz Bieberkopf - ( acted with consummate skill by Fassbinder himself ) is a lower class gay carny kid whose lover is arrested , leaving the carnival to collapse and leaving Fox without support . Enter handsome Max ( Karlheinz Böhm ) , a wealthy antiques dealer , who picks up Fox , helps him buy the requisite ' lottery ticket ' on which Fox bases his hopes for financial survival ( ! ) via manipulative means , and takes him home , introducing Fox to his gay friends who regard Fox as scum but show obvious physical attraction to his rawness . Surprisingly Fox wins the lottery and suddenly has 500 , 000 DMs and with his new money , Max's friends abruptly see a target for obtaining that money . One of the friends named Eugen ( Peter Chatel ) takes Fox in as a lover and talks him into investing in Eugen's family business of bookbinding . Eugen's father Wolf ( Adrian Hoven ) and mother ( Ulla Jacobsson ) tolerate their son's life with a low class wretch , ridiculing his manners and lack of culture and education , but willingly take his money to salvage their business . With a lover and a business and a role model to make him suave , Fox dons fancy clothes , banters with his old friends in a tawdry club , and makes the pretenses that at last he is secure and happy . But in time Fox is blamed for problems at the business and when his funds have been depleted on expensive vacations and apartments by the smarmy self-centered Eugen , Fox realizes that now without money he has no ' fancy friends ' , no lover , no security and his life becomes unbearable : the ending to the film is a tragedy beyond description . Some would say the film is mannered in ways that depict stereotypes of the gay world ( effeminate men , transvestites , opportunists , hustlers , etc ) , but Fassbinder is completely honest in his attempt to recreate a subculture of a specific time in Germany . And the characters are well written and well acted allowing us to look at Fassbinder's greater picture of depravity between social class antipathies . In many ways this is a difficult film to watch , but Fassbinder wisely places the main character whom he enacts in a place where his foibles and lack of higher class knowledge can be at once very humorous as well as pitiable . FOX AND HIS FRIENDS has some minor flaws but it has already become a classic in gay cinema repertoire . In German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Multiple Courses of a Feast of Love	It is always puzzling when films of the caliber of FEAST OF LOVE are short-lived in the theaters , usually scantily attended in the shadows of the big , mean , noisy blockbusters . And when film buffs begin to believe that the meaningful movies only come from foreign sources , out pops the DVD release of a jewel like this film , a story so well written ( Allison Burnett ) , directed ( Robert Benton ) , and acted by a gifted cast to show under scrutiny that it is the equal of the best of the ' sensitive films ' . Based on a novel by Charles Baxter ( and adapted by Allison Burnett , another extraordinary writer of his own novels CHRISTOPHER : A TALE OF SEDUCTION and THE HOUSE BEAUTIFUL ) , the story takes place in Portland , Oregon and examines the lives and love stories of myriad characters , each of whom is connected in some way to the father confessor of the town , one elderly professor Harry Stevenson ( Morgan Freeman ) who not only narrates the threads of the people's lives that round out this film , but also plays a significant role as a father of an only son who died in the recent past from a heroin overdose , a man bruised and experienced in the vagaries of life , supported by his wife Esther ( Jane Alexander ) , both of whom cope with their loss by extending their love to young people . Bradley Thomas ( Greg Kinnear ) is an artist and an optimist who own Jitters , a coffee shop , and is married to Kathryn ( Selma Blair ) who loves sports . . . and leaves him for a woman who awakens her lesbian longings . A young recovering drug abuser Oscar ( Toby Hemingway ) works in Bradley's shop and in a magic moment falls in love with a sensitive free spirit named Chloe ( Alexa Davalos ) and is hired by Bradley on a whim . Bradley doesn't understand the complications of love : he is an optimistic romantic , but with an indomitable spirit that allows him to progress through marriages like a hero ! Searching for a place to live after his marriage fails , he meets real estate agent Diana ( Rhadha Mitchell ) who despite the fact that she is having an extended love affair with married David ( Billy Burke ) , a relationship consisting solely of ' nooners ' with wine and sex , sees the rare vulnerable goodness in Bradley and once again Bradley is in love , headed toward marriage . Meanwhile Oscar and Chloe share dreams for a perfect future despite a problem with Oscar's alcoholic abusive father Bat ( Fred Ward ) and some ominous warnings from palmist / card reader ( Margo Martindale ) . At the heart of each of these affairs of the heart is the supportive Professor Harry , a wise man who observes reality and yet retains the courage to offer advice and love to all of the characters . In a short time Bradley's marriage to Diana fails as Diana returns to the now available David , and in a moment of angst Bradley wounds himself , is taken to a Dr . Vikashi ( Erika Marozsán ) for treatment and ends up falling in love yet again - and this time the feeling is wholly mutual . And just when the playing field of love seems even , a major tragedy occurs which bonds all of the players surrounding the wise Harry and Esther and the resolution of all of the aspects of the feast of love come round . What makes this film so very successful is the gentle manner in which it is written and directed and acted . There is not a weak element here in this survey of the power and force of love . Some may find the generous scenes of lovemaking a problem , but these scenes are in integral part of the story and never border on the superfluous or gratuitous level . The cast is excellent : the pleasure of seeing actors of this wide age range work together in such a fine ensemble manner is doubtless due in large part to not only the individual actors of quality but also to the director . This is a beautiful film , happy and sad , tender and enriching , and hopefully will be seen by a large audience now that it is available on DVD . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Sensitivity	Few films released last year have the quiet sensitivity in writing ( Allan Loeb ) , direction ( Susanne Bier ) , cinematography ( Tom Stern ) , and acting ( Berry , Del Toro , Duchovny ) as this gem of a movie . Taking on a subject of grief after a sudden traumatic death and the way it affects family and friends would seem like a tedious subject for a two hour film , but THINGS WE LOST IN THE FIRE proves again that care and devotion in telling a difficult story with restraint and tenderness is far more compelling that many of the ' big ' movies that fill the theaters with more superficial topics . Brian Burke ( David Duchovny ) is a generously warm man to his beautiful wife Audrey ( Halle Berry ) , their son Dory ( Micah Berry ) , and daughter Harper ( Alexis Llewellyn ) as well as to his longtime , childhood friend Jerry Sunborne ( Benecio Del Toro ) who is constantly struggling with an addiction to heroin . Brian is suddenly dead as the film opens and the friends are gathered at the Burke home for the funeral . Audrey is devastated by the abrupt loss and quietly bears her shock in order to be present for her children . During the reception Audrey suddenly remembers she has not informed Brian's best friend Jerry of his death and sends her brother to fetch him for the services . We meet the wasted Jerry , the shambles of his heroin-addicted life obvious in his tiny apartment , and yet when Jerry hears the news of Brian's death , he is profoundly shocked : Brian is the only friend he has . Jerry makes himself presentable and attends the funeral and despite the fact that Audrey had always considered Jerry a ' weight ' on Brian , the two offer each other a zone of connection that cannot be filled by any other . Slowly Jerry becomes part of the Burke household and his role in offering love to the children and solace and protection to Audry results in changes in Jerry's life that provides one bit of evidence of the redemption that can occur from shared grieving . ' Things ' , such as those items lost in a fire at the Burke's in the past , are simply ' things ' : interpersonal connection , hope , and the ' light from within ' are what truly matter . Berry and Del Toro give finely nuanced performances in these difficult roles , further establishing their credentials as being two of our finest actors in film . But the entire cast of this film is pitch-perfect and under the direction of Bier communicates powerfully with the viewer . The extraordinary camera work concentrates on extreme closeup views of eyes , hands , lips and tears and allows the viewer an intimate relationship with these characters . Johan Söderqvist provides a subtle musical score that underlines the story without calling attention to itself . For this viewer this is hands down one of the finest films of 2007 . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
' I lift my lamp beside the golden door ' : A Touching Tribute to Immigrants	THE GOLDEN DOOR ( NUOVOMONDO ) is for this viewer the finest film of the year to date . It is a masterpiece of concept , writing , directing , acting and cinematography . More importantly , this radiantly beautiful film is a much needed reflective mirror for us to view the history of immigration of ' foreigners ' into America at a time when the very mention of the word ' borders ' is a political fuse . Writer / director Emanuele Crialese has given us not only a deeply moving story , he has also provided a touchstone for viewers to re-visit the history of each of our origins : with the exception of the Native Americans , we all entered America as ' foreigners ' at some point in our histories , and it is humbling to view this film with that fact in mind . The film opens in turn of the century Sicily as poverty stricken widower Salvatore Mancuso ( Vincenzo Amato ) and his brother Angelo ( Francesco Casisa ) climb a rocky hill to present their tokens to the cross to ask for a sign as to whether they should continue to struggle for existence on the island or go to America , the land of dreams . Mancuso's deaf mute son Pietro ( Filippo Pucillo ) runs to the top of the hill with postcards he has found with images of America ( money growing on trees , fruits and vegetables larger than people , etc ) , and Salvatore accepts this as the sign that he should move his family to America . After convincing his reluctant mother Fortunata ( Aurora Quattrocchi ) and his sisters Rita ( Federica De Cola ) and Rosa ( Isabella Ragonese ) to make the trip , he sells his only possessions ( two donkeys , goats , and rabbits ) and the man with the boat arranges their trip , giving the family shoes , appropriate clothing , and instructions to board an ocean liner as third class passengers . As the Mancuso family prepares to board they are asked for a photograph , and as they pose behind a painted set , an Englishwoman Lucy / Luce ( Charlotte Gainsbourg ) walks into the photo as though she were part of this peasant family . Lucy cannot board the boat for America without male escort . The voyage begins and Luce in her gentle way identifies with the Mancuso family , finally solidifying her safe passage by proposing to Salvatore to marry her ' for convenience , not for love ' when they arrive in America . Through a violent storm and living conditions that are appalling poor , the multitude of third class passengers survive , bond , and eventually arrive at Ellis Island , believing their dream of America has been fulfilled . But everyone must pass harsh physical tests , de-lousing , and even intelligence testing to determine if they can enter America : the officials let them know that America does not want genetically inferior people entering the new world ! Each woman must be selected by a man to marry on Ellis Island before they are allowed admission . The manner in which the Mancuso family remains united until a somewhat surprising ending is the closing of the tale . Few of us understand the strict rules and harsh treatment immigrants face ( or at least faced at the turn of the century ) on Ellis Island , and if we do we have elected to submerge that information . THE GOLDEN DOOR presents the case for immigrants ' struggles in a manner that not only touches our hearts but also challenges our acceptance of current immigration legislation . But all political issues aside , THE GOLDEN DOOR is first and foremost a film of enormous beauty , exquisite photography , deeply felt performances by a huge cast , and a very sensitively written and directed story . The is a film that deserves wide distribution , a movie that is a must see for everyone . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
An Oscar Wildely Witty , Intelligent , Entertaining Film !	When it comes to playwrights who can manipulate the English language with a flair , endless double entendres , and clever dialogue , few can match Oscar Wilde . In this wholly entertaining and luxurious adaptation of his fine play ' Lady Windemere's Fan ' screen writer Howard Himelstein and director Mike Barker have created a bright confection of film that is bubbling with sex , scandal , seduction , secrets , and all manner of romantic subterfuge . It is a winner all around . Mrs . Erlynne ( Helen Hunt ) is a lady of desires who has just fled the USA with debtors breathing down her voluptuous décolletage : she has always made her way by courting and conquering married men and their bank accounts . She flees to Amalfi where she encounters the Windemeres - dashing Robert ( Mark Umbers ) and his gorgeous but somewhat naive wife of one year Meg ( Scarlett Johansson ) . Mrs . Erlynne and Robert share a secret that is mistaken by all to be an affair : Meg the pure is simultaneously being seduced by Lord Darlington ( Stephen Campbell Moore ) . The townsfolk of Amalfi gossip and spy and plan at every occasion to bring light to the goings on of the naughty Mrs . Erlynne - with the exception of a twice divorced older gent Tuppy ( Tom Wilkinson ) who instead has his eye on Mrs . Erlynne as his perfect new mate . The trail of cookie crumbs is left when Mrs . Erlynne advises Robert to buy his wife a fan - with all the history of seductive uses that holds . That fan travels around the circles and is eventually the means by which the secrets are made clear and the misrepresented scandals are solved . The setting of Wilde's comedy has been updated very successfully to the 1930s and the costumes and extraordinary views of the insides and vistas of Amalfi are a fine marriage . The actors are to the person excellent with Helen Hunt giving a fine portrayal of a character at first difficult to like ( but she is a good woman ! ) . Scarlett Johansson once again proves that her dramatic skills are equal to her beauty and Tom Wilkinson , Milena Vukotic , and the entire cast toss Wilde's wonderful lines into the air like butterflies . This is a very special film , one that touches the brain , the heart and the sense of humor in a most delectable manner . One wonders why on earth the critics panned it during the theatrical release . I'm sure Wilde would have a fitting answer for that ! Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Fascinating Story , Sifting through Legend and Fact about Napoleon's Last Days	Director Antoine de Caunes has adapted Rene Mansor's fine screenplay concerning the enigma that still exists as to the final resting place of Napoleon Bonaparte into a film that relates the period of history from 1816 to 1840 during which time the bifurcated responses of the British and French to the legend of Napoleon initiated the scandal that still piques our interest . Opening in 1816 Napoleon ( the brilliant Philippe Torreton ) is imprisoned on the island of St . Helena along with his most trusted supporters and various citizens who elected to follow him into exile - with an eye on Napoleon's fortune when he dies . There is a new British Governor appointed , Hudson Lowe ( Richard E . Grant ) , who is steely and determined to prevent Napoleon's escape and yes , even protect the British government from the costly extended prison expenditures a prolonged exile will produce . Lowe appoints Basil Heathcote ( Jay Rodan ) to sit in watch of the Emperor / General only to come under the spell of the mysterious Napoleon and the spell of a young girl Betsy Balcombe ( Siobhan Hewlett ) who is in love with Napoleon . Others among Napoleon's party include the Montholons ( Stephane Freiss and Elsa Zylberstein ) the latter of whom Napoleon keeps as his mistress and impregnates , Cipriani ( Bruno Putzulu ) his butler and half brother , Ali ( Igor Skreblin ) his bodyguard , Marshal Bertand ( Roschdy Zem ) his aide de camp , among others . Napoleon's self perception as the Emperor makes him unavailable to close scrutiny and rumors fly about his proposed escapes and about the British idea of poisoning him . There is great mystery surrounding Napoleon's ultimate death and burial and this mystery is what drives the story in flash forward sequences to the investigation of Napoleon's ultimate exhumation to see if the man buried in Les Invalides in Paris is actually Napoleon Bonaparte - and if not , where is the true Napoleon buried ? The period atmosphere on St . Helena is scrupulously recreated , allowing a superb playing ground for the many fine performances by an excellent cast . We see Napoleon as we've never seen him , a multi-dimensional character with whom we , as viewers , tend to sympathize . This is not only due to the fine script but also to the unique portrayal by Philippe Torreton . The film is in both French and English , with English subtitles for the French only . And therein lies the fault of this otherwise superb film . The ambient sounds of the crashing sea and the annoyingly loud musical score by Stephan Eicher cover the English dialogue to such an extent that it cannot be heard most of the time . This is a film that would greatly benefit from re-mastering to add English subtitles for the entire film AND by making it available in full screen instead of the widescreen that reduces much of the action to miniaturization ! Otherwise , this is a superb period piece that opens questions about historical accuracy that invite investigation . Grady Harp
Love : Meeting the Needs of the Aged and the Youthful	MRS . PALFREY AT THE CLAREMONT is an adaptation by Ruth Sacks of the book by British novelist Elizabeth Taylor ( 1912 - 1975 ) and directed with consummate skill by Dan Ireland . It is a showcase for the extraordinary talents of Dame Joan Plowright who owns the title role and of relative newcomer Rupert Friend , surely an actor to watch rise . Mrs . Palfrey ( Plowright ) is recently widowed and decides to move to a small hotel in London to spend her last years as a lady of independence . The Claremont is a crumbling old edifice that serves as a retirement home for a small but fascinating group of tenants : the fastidious but cranky Mrs . Arbuthnot ( Anna Massey ) , a would-be suitor for Mrs . Palfrey's hand Mr . Osborne ( Robert Lang ) , Mrs . Post ( Marcia Warren ) , the nosy matchmaker Mrs . Burton ( Georgina Hale ) , and a strange old couple , the De Salises ( Millicent Martin and Michael Culkin ) . Once settled into her barely navigable room , Mrs . Palfrey meets her fellow ' inmates ' at dinner , and announces that she has a grandson who will be calling on her at times . Yet despite multiple attempts her grandson Desmond ( Lorcan O'Toole ) doesn't respond and Mrs . Palfrey realizes she has entered a world of loneliness . Out on an errand she falls and is befriended by a handsome young busker / writer Ludovic Meyer ( Rupert Friend ) who nurses her leg wound , makes her tea , and escorts her home . Ludo is a loner and lonely and when Mrs . Palfrey offers him dinner at the hotel he gladly accepts . But at the hotel the guests presume that Mrs . Palfrey's guest will be her grandson Desmond : Mrs . Palfrey hastily informs Ludo that she has erred and Ludo agrees to pose as her grandson . The guests at the hotel are charmed by Ludo , and Mrs . Palfrey and Ludo grow increasingly bonded - they share many likes and tastes and meld into a beautiful relationship that would be the envy of any grandmother and grandson . Mrs . Palfrey's loneliness is dissipated by Ludo and the effect is vice versa . How the two progress to the end of the film , finding new lives from old ones , forms the immensely touching finale to the film . Though this film falls into the ' ensemble acting ' category , so finely entwined are the performances of every actor in the cast , the film clearly belongs to Dame Joan Plowright whose performance once again proves that she is one of the durable treasures of cinema and stage . This is a film that will touch the hearts of even the most hardened viewers and this viewer cannot recommend it more highly . Grady Harp , December 06
A Powerful Story About Immigrant Journeys	SANGRE DE MI SANGRE ( also known as PADRE NUESTRO ) is a fast-paced , raw , and rather brutal indictment against the cruelty immigrants face upon entering this country . Written and directed by Christopher Zalla the film may cover territory becoming a bit overexposed in cinema of late , but the story is so well told and acted that it rises to the top of the films currently available about the experiences immigrants ( from Mexico , in this case ) endure in trying to better their lives under the torch of the Statue of Liberty ! The film opens in Mexico where a young criminal Juan ( Armando Hernández ) narrowly escapes his pursuers by jumping over the border fence and landing in a situation where a coyote ( corrupt border guard ) is loading his truck with immigrants to transport them for cash to New York . The street-wise Juan is one of many stuffed into a truck and happens to sit by a young illiterate lad his age named Pedro ( Jorge Adrián Espíndola ) who is on his way to meet his father who lives in New York ( ' a man who owns a restaurant ' ) but whom Pedro has never seen ( he carries with him a letter to his father from his recently deceased mother ) . Through all manner of staging errors and transportation glitches , the two young boys , full of dreams of a better future in America , land in New York . Juan loses his money and his ID and steels from his newfound friend . Pedro encounters a streetwalker named Magda ( Paola Mendoza ) who promises to help Pedro find his father Diego ( Jesús Ochoa ) . But Jaun has found the dishwasher Diego first , claims to be his son , and causes confusion and discord in Diego's life . How the two lads manage to survive the complexities of life in Brooklyn and are swept up in the raw life of crime that surrounds the lives of illegal immigrants makes for a complicated story , but one filled with unforgettable characters and emotions . This film had an unfortunately brief run in the theaters . It is a well-made film in every aspect and deserves wider audience which now , on DVD , it just may reach . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
The Upside of Anger is that we learn about ourselves and change	Mike Binder both wrote and directed this searingly important film ; important for its concept , for its ensemble acting , and for performances by Joan Allen and Kevin Costner that are now the gold standard for the year by which all other award quality performances must be judged . Anger , and how it paralyzes our emotional outlook and alters our perception of reality and works to destroy those around us , is the harsh subject of this examination of a well-to-do family of husband , wife and four teenage daughters . The story is narrated by the youngest daughter Lavender ' Popeye ' Wolfmeyer ( Evan Rachel Wood ) and never were the words ' out of the mouth of babes ' so pertinent . The mother Terry ( Joan Allen ) is introduced drunk , constantly in her nightgown with glass of vodka in hand , and she pretty has spent her days in that manner since her husband Grey ' left her with his 22-year-old Swedish office girl ' without a note , a call , or confrontation with his family . Terry is consumed with anger , self pity , loathing , and barely manages to maintain a household , completely relying on her four daughters to cook , clean , shop , etc while she finds reasons to berate them for every act and motivation the girls show . Hadley ( Alicia Witt ) is the oldest and enamored with a boy Terry considers a waste of time . Andy ( Erica Christensen ) doesn't want to go to college but to become a reporter instead - a fact Terry refuses to consider . Emily ( Keri Russell ) prefers to follow her dream of becoming a ballet dancer and attending an Arts College that , of course , Terry refuses to allow . Popeye , the youngest , is hungry for belonging and wants desperately to be noticed by not only her mother but by boys , etc . A neighbor Denny Davies ( Kevin Costner ) is an alcoholic ex-baseball hero who now has a cheesy but popular radio talk show produced by his buddy Shep ( Mike Binder , yes , the writer / director ! ) . Denny has been friends of the Wolfmeyers for years and shows up drunk , warmly offering himself as a drinking partner to Terry . The two spend their time drinking and watching television and watching the daughters each arrive at crises : Hadley gets pregnant and announces her engagement to Terry after everyone else knows : rage from Terry and an embarrassing scene at Hadley's announcement dinner . Andy gets a job at Denny's radio show only to fall into bed with the lothario Shep : rage and a public fight from Terry . Emily somaticizes her career frustration and ends up in a hospital with an ulcer : self-pity and depression from Terry . Denny slowly works his way into Terry's bed and become a surrogate father / lover to these five father / husband-deserted women . The ending is a shocker and cannot be revealed because it would destroy the fine story line of the film . But it begins as it ends and that is the part that leaves the audience aghast that they didn't suspect that turn of event . Binder's script and direction achieve the impossible : he is able to create a family in disarray , deal with every aspect of anger , desertion , family ties , mother / daughter love ( though severely tested ) , the needs of the ' victim ' and how they can be tended . Amazingly he does this with a large does of comedy , acerbic dialogue , restrained responses , and a keen grasp of reality that makes this a film about a tough subject one that is engrossing and never off-putting . The entire cast is pitch perfect : each of the actors who portray the daughters is exceptional . But the brilliance that radiates from the screen is the triumphant performance by Joan Allen . She inhabits Terry and despite the fact that she has every reason to make us loathe her character , she manages to keep her portrayal so sensitively nuanced that we stay close to her in this journey . She is simply amazing in her body language , her understanding of alcoholic behavior patterns , and her internalization of her needs at the expense of her ever-surfacing rage . Much the same can be said for Kevin Costner who gives the finest performance of his career in a role that could be pathetic and negative in the hands of a less capable actor . His comedic talents shine , but not at the expense of his enormous sensitivity to the five women with whom he ends up living . Alexandre Desplat has once again created a movie score that has perfectly beautiful passages of music while always underlining the story appropriately . The cinematography by Richard Greatrex finds the perfect vantages that seem like windows in the hearts of each of the participants in the story . Highly Recommended .
Terrifyingly Timely , Excellent Film	KILLER KID is another in the series of French films from the TALE FROM THE ORPHANAGE series . The title of the film is unfortunate as is the graphic on the cover of the DVD : this is not a silly sci-fi comic book story , but instead is a serious , alarming , poignant , and timely true story of how in this age of Terrorism it is the children who make the ' best terrorists ' . The setting is Lebanon 1986 and Djilali ( Teufik Jallab ) is a young boy sold into the military by his uncle for $3000 . and is placed in a military camp where he is indoctrinated , trained , taught to kill , to resist , and to hate infidels ( Jews and Christians ) because they are the enemies of the Arab Muslims ( Djilali's father was killed by a Jew ) . The training camp is show in grim detail - six young boys trained to fight and prepare for ' missions ' to assassinate the enemy . It is a competition for a particular mission in France and Djilali is finally chosen and sent to Paris where is to live with a ' family ' setup that will prepare him for the final phase of the mission - to assassinate the President of France . Once in Paris , Djilali is placed with a young Arab boy Karim ( Younesse Boudache ) , a buoyant street kid who befriends his junkie girl friend Isabelle ( Agathe de La Fontaine ) and prefers skateboarding and rap music to affairs of political nature . Djilali is to observe Karim and learn the boy's every behavior . In the process the two boys gradually bond and the hardened Djilali softens to Karim's humanity and fun-loving outlook . The moment of truth comes when Djilali is informed that he is to pose as Karim in order to kill the President of France . The manner in which these two bonded boys resolve Djilali's dilemma calls forth a surprise that abruptly alters the tone of the story : the two boys are on their own against the adult world . Director Gilles de Maistre has taken the story from a book by Claude Klotz as adapted by Miguel Courtois and has created a film that is at once intensely disturbing ( the current use of children as suicide bombers in the war in Iraq makes this 1994 film eminently poignant today ! ) and ultimately satisfying in its ending . The two young actors are superb and the entire production aspects make this film riveting . By inserting a ' Prelude ' and ' Epilogue ' we discover that this story is based on fact , an aspect that makes it all the more disturbing . This is a film that should be required watching for all ages , all countries . In French and Arabic with English subtitles . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Beliefs and Bravery	SOPHIE SCHOOL - THE FINAL DAYS is one of those films made more powerful by the understated production values . The script , yes , the story itself , is so powerful that it doesn't need big battle scenes or full-fledged staged crowd scenes to make it work : the dialogue among the actors speaks volumes . Written by Fred Breinersdorfer based on documents from life and directed with enormous sensitivity by Marc Rothemund the film takes place in the last days of the lives of members of the anti-Nazi resistance movement The White Rose in 1943 . Sophie Scholl ( Julia Jentsch ) , her brother Hans ( Fabian Hinrichs ) and their friend Christoph ( Florian Stetter ) are organizers for creating leaflets warning the populace of Germany of the ills ahead should Hitler and his Hessians remain in power . They are caught , imprisoned and interrogated . Sophie's interrogator Robert Mohr ( Gerald Alexander Held ) , though strong , does seem to understand Sophie's explanations for her denial of participation in the spreading of leaflets , but Sophie has the courage to speak out against the current government . Hans is likewise interrogated and when he confesses to the leaflet incident he is implicating both Sophie and Christoph and the three are brought before a vicious tribunal . Christoph pleads for his life and Sophie and Hans request that his life as a father be spared but the charges are made of iron and the three are convicted and immediately executed . The fact that the story is true makes it all the more moving . Observing the inordinate amount of courage in standing firm for beliefs - especially in Sophie's case - is humbling for the viewer . How many of us , under similar circumstances would have that degree of conviction of ideals and bravery ? The acting by everyone involved is first rate , with Julia Jentsch and Gerald Alexander Held being especially fine . The pacing , scoring , lighting and direction of this film are keyed to the atmosphere of the times in 1943 Germany , creating a sense of claustrophobia in the visual and the emotional aspects of the film . It is a brilliant work and deserves a very wide audience . In German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
Capturing the Drama of Our Everyday Simple Existence	How we all come to grips with our mortality is often previewed in how we manage the care of our elders . When that elder care is focused on a parent , as it is in Tamara Jenkins's brilliant film THE SAVAGES , it not only strikes chords with individual philosophies , but is also reveals the intricacies of family relationships that come into play in coping with the final days of a parent's life . Though there is little story to this film , this is a character study about isolation , loneliness , and need that will touch the hearts of sensitive viewers . Wendy Savage ( Laura Linney ) is a frustrated unpublished playwright working as a temp , a bright woman whose insecurities limit her emotional activity to an affair with a ' safe ' married man Larry ( Peter Friedman ) . Jon Savage ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) , her older brother , is a professor of philosophy who is writing a book on the theater of the absurd of Bertolt Brecht while living in Buffalo with a Polish woman , Kasia ( Cara Seymour ) , who , because Jon does not wish to commit to marriage , is forcing his only emotional tie to return to Poland when her Visa expires . Wendy and Jon were deserted by their mother at an early age , left in the care of their abusive father Lenny Savage ( Philip Bosco ) , and both siblings have distanced themselves from their father now living in Sun City , Arizona with his girlfriend of twenty years . Lenny's girlfriend dies and the signs of Lenny's rapidly encroaching dementia force Wendy and Jon to fly to Arizona to ' make arrangements ' for their demented father . Coming together under duress the two siblings are forced to confront their own frustrations together with the realities of placing Lenny in a nursing home . Lenny is moved from Arizona to Buffalo , NY and the manner in which Jon and Wendy cope with the new ' family ' arrangement raises problems of guilt , memories of their childhood , resentment , and ultimately the manner in which they continue with their lives . The film could have easily become a diatribe against current nursing home conditions , but instead Jenkins through her superb script and direction levels the playing field , allowing the family frustrations to play out in equal time with the vantage of the caregivers ( well played by David Zayas , Gbenga Akinnagbe , Margo Martindale , Tonye Patano , Nancy Lenehan , Tijuana Ricks , and others ) . But the real power of this film comes from the bravura performances by Linney , Hoffman , and Bosco . These three actors can do more with silences and facial and body expressions that just about anyone on the screens today . Watching these gifted actors at their trade makes for a stunning film experience and one that shakes us all a bit to think about things we don't wish to consider - death , care of the elderly , and finding life in a world that usually runs a bit on the crazy side . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
One of the Great Films of 2005	Tommy Lee Jones makes an impressive debut as a director with this superlative atmospheric film based on the writing of Guillermo Arriaga who has proved his mettle with such screenplays as ' 21 Grams ' and ' Amores Perros ' . This is one of those rare ' westerns ' where the plot is woven so tightly into the scenery that it takes a legion of excellent actors to unravel it . And Jones has found those actors and has directed them in a mesmerizing story about friendship and the promises extracted from it . Pete Perkins ( Tommy Lee Jones ) is a dusty old man with friends wherever he sets his hat - be that in a café where knows the married waitress Rachel ( a brilliant Melissa Leo ) as a bed partner , or on his cowboy runs where his best friend is a Mexican man Melquiades Estrada ( Julio Cedillo ) , a friendship bonded by promises and gifts and commitment . When Melquiades is killed , Pete is grief stricken and cannot tolerate the attitude of the Border Patrol rednecks who just want to bury the Mexican without investigating the killing . A new agent Mike Norton ( Barry Pepper ) and his wife Lou Ann ( January Jones ) have recently arrived from Cincinnati : Lou Ann is bored and spends her time in Rachel's café and cavorts with Rachel , Pete and Melquiades and Mike takes out his aggressions on his job . When all evidence points to Mike Norton as the killer of Melquiades , Pete captures him , makes him confess to the killing , dig up Melquiades body so that Pete can return it as promised to Jimenez , Mexico . The remainder of the film is a ' road trip ' as Pete makes Mike transport Melquiades ' rotting body into Mexico . They encounter a blind man ( Levon Helm ) who befriends them and asks them as a return favor to shoot him : he is blind , alone , and his once visiting son is dying of cancer . Pete refuses and heads on . The travails of the trip are numerous but in the course of the story important lessons are learned by all of the characters . The movement of the film is a bit confusing at times as it is not told in a linear fashion : events revolving around Melquiades ' death are slowly unwound in a way that makes the story a mystery of sorts . The cinematography is stunning ( Chris Menges ) and the musical score by Marco Beltrami is hauntingly perfect . Barry Pepper and Tommy Lee Jones turn in bravura performances , as does the rest of the cast in their more minor roles . The after burn of the film is scorching and tender at the same time and the credit for that goes to Jones as director . It is a brilliant achievement . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
' If music be the language of love , play on ! ' : A Fairy Tale	Short stories often make better films than full novels as is evident in the case of JD Locke's ' Ladies in Lavender ' as adapted for the screen and directed by the multi-talented Charles Dance . Given the barest outline of a quiet little idea of a ' fairy tale ' , LADIES IN LAVENDER becomes an unfolding meditation of quiet lives altered by an incident that awakens sleeping needs and emotions . Ursula ( Judi Dench ) and Janet ( Maggie Smith ) are elderly sisters living a quiet life of gardening , strolling the cliffs and beach of Cornwall , knitting , and reading . Their bumpy housekeeper Dorcas ( Miriam Margolyes ) cooks , cleans , shops , and chatters in a wonderful Cornish brogue , allowing the sisters to live an otherwise isolated life - isolated from history , personal emotions , and vulnerabilities . After a storm Ursula spies a figure on the beach below their home and the two descend to find an unconscious handsome young man whom they rescue , house , nurture , mend a broken ankle and ultimately become doting adorers . The young man Andrea ( Daniel Brühl ) finally awakens , speaks no English as he is Polish , and his charming ways attract inner emotions in both sisters . Janet studies some German and is able to speak with Andreas , while Ursula pastes English words on items in his room to teach him English . He mends and it is discovered that he is a concert violinist who was shipwrecked while striving to go to America . A Russian visitor to the town , Olga ( Natascha McElhone ) , the requisite ' evil witch ' for a fairy tale , hears Andreas play , informs him she has a cousin who is a famous violinist , and attracts him away from Cornwall to London where he ultimately gives his own concert . Those are the bare facts of the film's story . The magic lies not in the story itself but in the submerged feelings of the two sisters . Ursula , having never been in love in her youth , falls in love with Andrea , fully aware that there is no possibility of consummation . She feels long desired emotional attachment to the lad and the stirring in her breast is overwhelming to her . Janet , who once loved but lost that love to death , likewise falls for Andrea . It is this sibling rivalry over the passion for Andrea that provides some of the most touching and understated brilliant acting moments ever recorded on film . There is a scene where , resting from a stroll on the cliffs , Andrea rests with his head on Ursula's lap , perhaps the first physical contact with a man she has ever known , and the gentility of the slow and reticent placement of her hand on Andrea's resting head is a crystal of acting magic . How the sisters cope with this time with Andrea and his eventual leaving for his career is the climax of the film . And touching and understated it is . Judi Dench and Maggie Smith give pitch perfect characterizations , creating two lovely beings we will never forget . Likewise Daniel Brühl is superb in a role far different from his usual German repertoire ( Goodbye Lenin ! , The Edukators , Love in Thoughts ) and manages to create the illusion that he is actually playing the violin ( while the true artist is Joshua Bell in some stunning performances ) . The atmosphere of Cornwall is magically captured by Dance and his cinematographer Peter Biziou with assistance from Ed Rutherford . Nigel Hess has written a musical score , incorporating well-known classical violin works as well as his own hauntingly beautiful music that adds immeasurably to the film's success . LADIES IN LAVENDER is not a major blockbuster of a success nor does it try to be . It is simply a exquisitely crafted and acted fairy tale that gently reminds us that age does not prevent the heart from responding to that most beautiful of emotions , Love . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
Love and Passion in the 1980s : Enter the Spectre	Les Témoins ( The Witnesses ) is another fine artwork by French director André Téchiné that continues to examine relationships in times of stress and through areas of rough travel . As written by Téchiné , Laurent Guyot , and Viviane Zingg this film is a love story and a social commentary on life in 1984 when AIDS raised its ugly head and disrupted lives , hopes and relationships . What could have been a heavy-handed woeful tale is instead a story about ordinary people and how the spectre of the then ' new disease ' affected a small group of friends . In the intimacy of the story there is an opportunity to reflect and to see more clearly the atmosphere of that time in history . Sarah ( Emmanuelle Béart ) is a writer of children's books married to Mehdi ( Sami Bouajila ) , a member of the Paris police force vice squad . They have an open marriage and have just given birth to a baby boy - a factor that disrupts their separate lives while conflicting their married life . Sarah has a physician friend Adrien ( Michel Blanc , so memorable in his role in ' Monsieur Hire ' ) who is gay , and while he is older , he still longs for the company of young men . Adrien meets the young catering student Manu ( Johan Libéreau ) , a lad whose sexual appetite is satisfied by trysts in parks , back rooms of bars , etc . Manu and his opera singer sister Julie ( Julie Depardieu ) live modestly in a sleazy hotel cum brothel that is under surveillance by Mehdi . Adrien and Manu strike up a friendship and are invited to join Sarah and Mehdi to Sarah's mother's cabin by the sea and while there a relationship between Manu and Mehdi begins , one that will become an affair in secret . A strange disease comes to public attention and it is Adrien who is in charge of the investigation of the disease now called AIDS . Though Adrien's ties with Manu have become platonic while Manu see Mehdi daily , Adrien is the first to notice lesions on Manu , lesions that are the hallmark of AIDS . How this discovery affects the lives of each of the characters we have met ( the ' witnesses ' to a very important time in our history ) serves as the crux of the story - part tragedy and part a torch of resilience the weaves the story to a close in an honest , touching but never maudlin manner . The acting is consistently excellent , the sort of ensemble acting that keeps the focus on the message of the film rather than on individual attention to characters . The movie is beautifully photographed by Julien Hirsch and the musical score by Philippe Sarde wisely blends excerpts from Vivaldi and Mozart with original music that recalls the 1980s . This is yet another triumph for André Téchiné - a film that deserves the widest possible audience . Grady Harp
The Oedipus Complex with Variations from Novelist Georges Bataille	' Ma mère ' is a film on the edge . Director Christophe Honoré ( who gave us the little jewel ' Closer to Leo ' ) has adapted a tough book by Georges Bataille that explores incest , sadomasochism , love , family dysfunction , and nebulous moral values of conflicted adolescents caught in the web of sexual investigation . It is filled with difficult scenes and ideas and certainly is not a film for the faint of heart or spirit , but at the same time it is a brave film depicting the dissociative state of sexual mind to which we've come after the influences of such thinkers as Bataille , Foucault , Derida , Gide , and others . Christophe Honoré captures an impossible story extremely well on the screen ! 17-year-old Pierre ( Louis Garrel of ' The Dreamers ' ) is a spiritually challenged adolescent home from his Catholic school to be with his mother Hélène ( Isabelle Huppert ) whom he idolizes and loves and see his father ( Philippe Duclos ) who is distant in every sense . Hélène finds it necessary to inform Pierre of her background ( her husband raped her when she was very young , causing such anguish that she has become addicted to a life of immorality as a means of escape ) , a means of warning him of what close association with her could mean . Pierre is blind to all things negative about Hélène and with the news of his father's death , he demands to be included in the wild sexual life of Hélène and her female lover Réa ( Joana Preiss ) . Hélène is sexually attracted to Pierre and elects to include him in her games of voyeurism ( watching Pierre during intercourse with Réa , introducing him to the shallow and compulsive Hansi ( Emma de Caunes ) , mutilation , and all forms of debauchery . The group goes to the sunny islands off Spain where Pierre falls in love with the dangerous Hansi and follows her lead in learning about his mother's strange and dangerous proclivities , sexual acts which include the involvement of young Loulou ( Jean-Baptiste Montagut ) , a young man whom they torture for the sake of sexual satisfaction . All the while that Pierre is being introduced into Hélène's bizarre world he is conflicted by his superego in the form of the Catholic Church : he is seen reciting catechism in the desert surrounded by a silent , nude Greek chorus a la Fellini . Ultimately the ' vacation ' is over and Pierre returns home with Hélène and the ultimate incestuous aspect of the Oedipus complex plays out in a completely bizarre and very dark way . To say more would destroy the impact of the ending . Isabelle Huppert is brilliant as always , her quiet outwardly plain demeanor disguising the profoundly ill soul inside . Likewise Louis Garrel makes the fragile , gullible , needy and severely conflicted Pierre understandable : we may not agree with his choices as he wades through the strange waters of perversion , but we never lose sight of his vulnerability and passionate need to be loved . There is a lot of graphic sex in this film , but this particular story could not be told without it . Christophe Honoré manages this strange tale by letting the story take us into the realm of the unreal and he never for a moment loses our interest . Even the music scoring is substantive , using Samuel Barber's own setting of his famous ' Adagio for Strings ' for the choral ' Agnus Dei ' , most appropriately heard when Pierre is mentally visiting his spiritual conflicts with his corporal deeds . This is clearly not a film for everyone , but for those who admire the French cinema history of uncovering strange tales , this is a fine example . In French with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' I want life to be experiences , not just anecdotes '	SIX DEGREES OF SEPARATION is an outstanding play transformed to the screen with dignity but with a script that keeps us in the live theatre instead of in a motion picture . Not that that is a bad thing : the script by John Guare is brilliant . It simply seems a little static , with its marvelous plays on words , repeated phrases , and disjointed movements significant unto themselves but not really taking advantage of cinematic possibilities of flow . Essentially the tale of how a married couple who deal art ( Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland - both in peak form ) are so caught up in their superficial lives that they are taken in by a handsome young African American con artist ( Will Smith ) whose various antics bring the couple round to reexamining their shallow existence . Most of the story is related over art dealings and dinner conversations and are peopled by such luminaries as Kitty Carlisle , Ian McKellen , artists Chuck Close and Kazuko , Mary Beth Hurt , Bruce Davidson etc - a really fine ensemble . There are many social comments clustered in this story and it continues to play well after its origins on the stage and fifteen years after the movie was made . This was one of Will Smith's entries into film as well as one of the gifted Stockard Channing's finest roles . Highly recommended for repeated viewings . Grady Harp
Love and Honor	EL ABUELO ( The Grandfather ) began as a 1954 novel by Benito Pérez Galdós and was adapted for the screen by writer / director José Luis Garci in 1998 , a year when it was nominated for Best Foreign Film Oscar . It is a period piece of epic proportions , an immensely beautiful work both visually and emotionally , that assures the film's becoming a beloved standard in the cinematic library . Don Rodrigo de Arista Potestad ( Fernando Fernán Gómez , the brilliant Peruvian actor from such films as ' Butterfly ' , ' Belle Epoque ' , ' All About My Mother , etc ) is a crusty old aristocrat who has been in America for the Gold Rush who returns to Spain ( a small town of Jerusa ) when his son dies . He concern is about a letter his son wrote to him that one of his two granddaughters was sired by another man , an artist , and the old man is determined to find out which one of the granddaughters should rightfully inherit is name and his money . He arrives to meet Dolly ( Cristina Cruz ) and Nelly ( Cristina Cruz ) and their beautiful mother Doña Lucrecia ( Cayetana Guillén Cuervo ) , a woman who has survived emotional hardships but has generously favored the small town with gifts while giving her daughters in home schooling by the intelligent , sensitive Don Pío Coronado ( Rafael Alonso ) who has been forsaken by his own family . The once butler of the home Senén Corchado ( Agustín González ) has been freed to become an oily capitalist , eager to squander the family money . Don Rodrigo ( Abuelo ) challenges the family to maintain the honor of his name , becomes fast friends with Don Pío , and the two set about to discover whether it is Dolly or Nelly that is the true bloodline granddaughter . The manner in which the investigation proceeds includes the warm relationship Abuelo forms with the girls , the way he decides the future of Lucrecia , and the bonding he forms with Pío . It is Pío who challenges Abuelo with the question of which is more important , honor or love , and it is this question that suffuses the resolution of the story with surprises and with extraordinary tenderness . The actors are all superb with special kudos to Fernando Fernán Gómez and Rafael Alonso . The cinematography of the coastlines of Spain is breathtakingly beautiful and the manner in which Raúl Pérez Cubero frames his images glows . The original musical score is by Manuel Balboa whose love theme is hauntingly played by both piano and orchestra : the moments of music by Satie ( Gymnopédie ) and Elgar ( the Nimrod variation from Enigma Variations ) are beautifully performed by the Madrid Orchestra under the baton of Ángel Gil Ordóñez . The film is long ( well over two hours ) and there are some synchrony defects in the spoken soundtrack ( ? dubbing for the granddaughters ' voices ? ) , but these are minor flaws in an eloquently beautiful film . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A Film Even More Powerful for its Simplicity of Presentation	The gruesome tragedy of the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 absolutely must become public knowledge if we are to maintain the watch for symptoms of similar acts in the present and the future . HOTEL RWANDA was a fine film that capitalized on the heroism of one man , and justly so , for his selfless vision that saved many lives . But as far as a film that relates the same story without the emphasis on one hero , SOMETIMES IN APRIL is for this reviewer more powerful : the genocide speaks more loudly because it focuses on the victims . Writer / Director Raoul Peck has created a stunning impact with this film made for HBO . The details of the history of the rebellion of the Tutsis against the Hutus is clearly explained and made far more understandable than in previous efforts . Peck wisely utilizes the talents of Idris Elba and Carole Karemera as the husband and wife of mixed marriage and it is their story of survival and witness that makes this examination of Rwanda so intense . Oris Erhuero and Debra Winger among others feel completely committed to this story in the way they bring honesty and credibility to their roles . Photographed on location , this film is at first a country beautiful to look at and then the beauty of the land filled with corpses is nearly unbearable . The contrast is typical of the way Raoul Peck has sculpted this important film . By Hollywood standards as well as by Public Information standards , this is a film that should be seen by everyone as not only a fine movie but also an important documentation of a tragedy that should have never been ignored .
The Fallout of British Colonialism	Gifted actor Richard E . Grant makes his writing and directing debut with this highly entertaining film about the last days of British colonial protectorate of Swaziland , East-South Africa , drawing from his memoirs as a child growing up in Swaziland the time when the Kingdom of Swaziland was given its independence from British rule . The autobiographical nature of the film aids in Grant's sensitive approach to creating this drama tinged with comedy and the result if a film that is one of the strongest depictions of the end of British colonialism in the world . Supported by a sterling cast Grant makes a strong impression with this delightful outing . Harry Compton ( Gabriel Byrne ) is the Minister of Education for Swaziland , respected by both the natives and the snobbish , insular , stuffy colonialists who live in the isolation of the colony's chief city . Harry is married to Lauren ( Miranda Richardson ) whose disgust with her husband's home habits and the stifling life of the colonialists is placated by adultery : her latest affair is with John Traherne ( Ian Roberts ) whose wife Gwen ( Julie Walters ) is a close friend of the family . Their son Ralph ( played as a young boy by Zachary Fox and as an older lad by Nicholas Hoult ) discovers his mother's adultery and the family comes to a disastrous crumble as Lauren leaves Harry and Ralph to escape her perceived prison . Harry descends into alcoholism and Ralph is sent away to boarding school , only to return a few years later to find that Harry has married a tacky but truthful American Ruby ( Emily Watson ) whose presence is the center of disgust from the colonials lead by their Lady Hardwick ( Celia Imre ) and who mimics the colonial snobbery by terming their insular and foolish language as ' wah-wah ' . Gradually Ruby wins the confidence and respect of Ralph and as the time approaches for the British to hand over the independence to the natives , Princess Margaret is scheduled for an appearance and the colonials led by Lady Hardwick plan a performance of ' Camelot ' for the occasion . Ralph discovers he can both sing and act and wins a role in the play , finding the beginning of his true self at last . How the production and the Princess ' visit come off and how the intricacies of the Compton family are resolved serve as the finale of the film . There are numerous subplots in the film and not all of them are fully realized or even necessary , but chalk that up to the ' first film ' experience of Grant . Grant does demonstrate a sturdy hand in directing a cast of superb actors , both British and African including the excellent John Matshikiza whose Dr . Zim Mzimba represents one of the only grounded minds in the film . The beauty of Swaziland is captured by the lush photography by Pierre Aïm and a thoroughly charming musical score by Patrick Doyle . Not only is the story entertaining and well told , it also gives us insights into the machinations of the last of the British Empire era . Recommended viewing . Grady Harp
A Strong Period Drama and Another Brilliant Characterization by Judi Dench	MRS . BROWN as written by Jeremy Brock and directed by John Madden ( Proof , Shakespeare in Love , Captain Corelli's Mandolin ) is a sprightly , entertaining and engrossing study of a moment in the life of enigmatic Queen Victoria . Selecting an outstanding production crew and a fine cast this film succeeds on every level and once again proves to us that Judi Dench is one of the finest actresses on the stage or screen today . The story revolves around the time when Queen Victoria's beloved husband Prince Albert dies resulting in a clinical depression in the queen . She leaves London with her entourage to grieve at Balmoral Castle . There her Scottish Highlander servant John Brown ( Billy Connolly ) nurses her back to normalcy but in the meanwhile sets up the appearance of an affair that scandalized the British Isles . Disraeli ( Antony Sher ) visits in an attempt to right the situation but it is Brown's strong personality - an equal match for the wise and wily Victoria - that alters the course of events that returns Queen Victoria to her proper station . Dench and Connolly play so well off each other that their relationship has a wealth of charm , tenderness , bite , wit , and solidity . The supporting cast includes a fine turn by Gerard Butler as Archie Brown , John's supportive and playful brother . The costumes are superb and the cinematography by Richard Greatrex captures the atmosphere of the cloying indoor spaces as well as the freedom of the vast coastline vistas . Stephen Warbeck is responsible for the well-integrated musical score . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
A Family Implosion	The full title of this film is ' May you be in heaven a half hour before the devil knows you're dead ' , a rewording of the old Irish toast ' May you have food and raiment , a soft pillow for your head ; may you be 40 years in heaven , before the devil knows you're dead . ' First time screenwriter Kelly Masterson ( with some modifications by director Sidney Lumet ) has concocted a melodrama that explores just how fragmented a family can become when external forces drive the members to unthinkable extremes . In this film the viewer is allowed to witness the gradual but nearly complete implosion of a family by a much used but , here , very sensible manipulation of the flashback / flash forward technique of storytelling . By repeatedly offering the differing vantages of each of the characters about the central incidents that drive this rather harrowing tale , we see all the motivations of the players in this case of a robbery gone very wrong . Andy Hanson ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) is a wealthy executive , married to an emotionally needy Gina ( Marisa Tomei ) , and addicted to an expensive drug habit . His life is beginning to crumble and he needs money . Andy's ne're-do well younger brother Hank ( Ethan Hawke ) is a life in ruins - he is divorced from his shrewish wife Martha ( Amy Ryan ) , is behind in alimony and child support , and has borrowed all he can from his friends , and he needs money . Andy proposes a low-key robbery of a small Mall mom-and-pop jewelry store that promises safe , quick cash for both . The glitch is that the jewelry story belongs to the men's parents - Charles ( Albert Finney ) and Nanette ( Rosemary Harris ) . Andy advances Hank some cash and wrangles an agreement that Hank will do the actual robbery , but though Hank agrees to the ' fail-safe ' plan , he hires a friend to take on the actual job while Hank plans to be the driver of the getaway car . The robbery is horribly botched when Nanette , filing in for the regular clerk , shoots the robber and is herself shot in the mess . The disaster unveils many secrets about the fragile relationships of the family and when Nanette dies , Charles and Andy and Hank ( and their respective partners ) are driven to disastrous ends with surprises at every turn . Each of the actors in this strong but emotionally acrid film gives superb performances , and while we have come to expect that from Hoffman , Hawke , Tomei , Finney , Ryan , and Harris , it is the wise hand of direction from Sidney Lumet that make this film so unforgettably powerful . It is not an easy film to watch , but it is a film that allows some bravura performances that demand our respect , a film that reminds us how fragile many families can be . Grady Harp
